ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today as the first point we have a hearing of the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union Lilyana Pavlova. Since only parliamentary control is broadcast on BNT 2, I propose that the hearing be broadcast on BNT 2. Please vote. Vote 139 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're moving to point one for today: HEARING THE MINISTER FOR THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION 2018 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING IN THE FIRST BENEFICIARY OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Importers: MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Gemma Grozdanova, Valentin Kasabov, Iskren Veselinov, Slavcho Atanasov and Ivelina Vasileva on 18 April 2018. I'll give the importer the floor in five minutes. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to make an exhibition on the questions so asked. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union entered its second quarter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u3	Just a second, Mrs. Grozdanova. Please be quiet, colleagues. Take your seats in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u4	In this regard, we decided that it is time for more information about the results achieved so far and progress on the implementation of the priorities to be presented to the Bulgarian Parliament. Taking into account the key role of each Presidency for the legislative programme of the European Union, it is important that we receive such up-to-date information mainly on progress in the implementation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency. We expect to hear in particular at what stage are the different files about how completed they are, how open they are, are we achieving a constructive approach in examining one of the most sensitive files, namely the common European asylum system? [[Noise and lines.]] The topic of social cohesion continues to be up-to-date in the European Union and in this regard: to what extent will the Bulgarian Presidency contribute to the preservation and development of cohesion policy? [[Noise and lines.]] Taking over the Presidency from Estonia, we continued the priority for digitalisation. It's important to be informed...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u6	... to what extent progress has been made on the single digital market as a source of growth and competitiveness. Another topic is small and medium-sized enterprises. To what extent does the Bulgarian Presidency foresee progress on the initiative for start-up and growing enterprises? Within the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency we work for the European perspective of all the countries of the Western Balkans. So far, all actions of the Bulgarian Presidency have taken into account the dynamics of the events and initiatives of the European institutions on this topic. In view of the efforts made by the Bulgarian government to bring forward this special focus on the European integration of the Western Balkans, what is the response of this Bulgarian priority in the European institutions, given that the progress reports on enlargement of the countries of the Western Balkans have already been published? The topics outlined in today's hearing concern both the short and long-term priorities of the European Union and in this sense: what concrete actions of the Bulgarian government would you point out to achieve these objectives? How is the work of the individual formats of the Council within the Bulgarian Presidency and how is the implementation of the main functions of the current Presidency assessed? These are many questions that will also be further developed during the questions by the Members of the National Assembly, such as questions actually allow and the procedure on which we are doing this hearing. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Madam Minister, you have 10 minutes to make an exhibition, and then by procedure each group is entitled to two questions. After the questions are closed, you are entitled to five minutes in terms of the subject. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present to you the Interim Report on the progress in the realization of the activities related to the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. What I can say at the moment as an interim evaluation of the work done at the moment, the Presidency is in its dynamic move. At the moment, the assessments we receive for its implementation are that it is successful that the work that is being done at all levels of both expert and political is being carried out professionally, dynamically, intensively, in the spirit of constructive dialogue, in the spirit of what we have been called for and for which we have applied for right at the beginning of the Bulgarian Presidency, namely to be not only constructive, but to be a balancing agent, to be a mediator and to be those seeking consensus, compromise in the name of making progress on all extremely important topics. Because we realize that 2018 is extremely important. It is important because it is the last whole year before the end of the mandate, both of the European Parliament and of the European Commission, the last year in which the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of the European Union, which we chair, have the opportunity to adopt legislation relating to citizens relating to the European agenda, as set out in the programme of the trio. Earlier this week, I had an interim review of the European Parliament to the Commission of the Chairs of all the European Parliament's parliamentary committees, where we presented the interim results. From there we also received a high appreciation because our main commitment in the work and with the European Parliament is the realization and progress of all files, files and legislation for which we have signed a joint declaration between the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council, represented by Bulgaria during the Bulgarian Presidency, to adopt legislation on economic growth, security and migration, support for small and medium-sized businesses, affirming the role of the European Union as a stable factor on the economic scene, as well as measures related to the challenges of climate and environment, economic development and, above all, social cohesion of the Union as such. In the framework of the efforts and meetings held, what I can report and as data, over 1000 meetings have been held. Over 700 are the meetings of the subsidiary bodies, which Bulgaria presides, the various committees, working groups. The meetings of these subsidiary bodies, where we are chairmen and vice-presidents on the various topics, of all over 120 files and legislative initiatives, declarations on which we are working, do not have a single file on which work is stopped or have a delay. Yes, there are many of them that have challenges. There are many of them on which there is still no agreement, or there are differing opinions, differing opinions either of individual Member States or of individual institutions, and sometimes of representatives of individual branch organisations, but this gives us even more challenge to seek the necessary compromise. Over 1600 are Bulgarian experts who work and lead, chair these working bodies so that we can, on the one hand, have a good national position with which we can protect the national interest, and, on the other hand, so that we can draw up as a result the compromise texts so that the legislation can move forward. In the first months, we were able to complete all 15 legislative files, continue the work and make progress on over 35 of the priority legislative files from the joint declaration of the European institutions. We also have 65 files on which we have made progress in negotiations with the other two institutions in the so-called trialogs between the European Parliament, the European Commission and us representing the Council of the European Union. If I should mention several of the most successful, one of them is the Posted Workers Directive. For it we have received an extremely high appreciation for the fact that we have managed only in the first three months of the Presidency to achieve the awkward compromise. Sometimes up to 2 o'clock in the morning, colleagues worked on it. Not only the assessments from the institutions we have received in the past days, earlier this week, and President Macron in plenary in the European Parliament expressed his support and gratitude for being able to reach the necessary compromise to protect the rights of posted workers. We are now facing a heavier dossier related to the car package, in which Bulgaria is especially more challenging, because we need to protect the interest of Bulgarian carriers and people working in the automotive sector and at the same time be a balance sheeter to find the intersection position at this time. We also worked hard on financial legislation and files. We have completed and adopted the Financial Regulation as well as the regulation relating to the cross-border exchange of data relating to the prevention of potential tax fraud. Much has also been achieved in the environment sector. The Waste Directive has been adopted, as well as the directives relating to the energy efficiency of buildings, regulations relating to the achievement of climate targets, as well as the directive on the reduction of carbon emissions from heavy goods vehicles. An important success that we can take into account and which is directly affecting the citizens who shop online and defend their rights, which, including the Bulgarian use, Bulgarian citizens have so far been the subject of this discrimination and this protection, was the so-called geographical blockage. Thanks to the accelerated adoption of geographical blocking and its entry into force, in fact, from now on online shopping will no longer have this geographical blocking and redirecting to other sites, to other countries, which is much more expensive. After the adoption of the directive and the dropping of this discrimination, we can shop online without being discriminated against as a state, last week was completed and this week has been adopted and signed by us in Parliament and another directive for citizens' efforts. In addition to geographical blocking, this is facilitating the dispatch of packages and consignments to the European Union. You know, a cheap shipment, when we order online, sometimes it's three times more expensive to get it. This was also adopted as legislation by which we can ease this process. Important legislation was adopted and finally completed in terms of electoral legislation. All new electoral legislation was adopted concerning the holding of the European elections next year. The date for the European elections for the European Parliament next year will be set in the period 23 May 2019. All the necessary legislation for their implementation has been adopted, including the regulation, the financing of the parties to be represented in the European Parliament. The possibility of single individuals from now on being able to receive subsidies from European taxpayers, and only political entities will be able to be financed. An important topic related to youth employment and youth unemployment is the adopted regulation, the so-called "Europe"................................................................................................. What is to come in the coming months? In the coming months, there will be the toughest debates within the priorities that we have bet on the Bulgarian Presidency. I can divide them into three categories: Some are related to the biggest challenge not only in front of Europe, but also in front of the world in recent years, a topic on which four presidencies have worked, but no consensus and compromise has been reached. This is the subject of security, protection of external borders, migration and the topic concerning the "Dublin" and another package of seven legislative files. Here we should note that this is a serious package that included initiatives related to the parliamentary dimension. In the framework of what has been achieved and the work on Europol's procedural rules, I would like to thank Mr. Tsvetanov personally as part of the parliamentary dimension for all the efforts that have been made, because this is also part of what the previous presidencies have not been able to achieve, namely to reach agreement on these texts. Now there are seven directives left. Five of them make progress. The regulation remains "Dublin". In this context Bulgaria proposed a brand new philosophy, a brand new approach in the topic of reform of the Single Asylum System. This is a system that offers a new approach that does not focus so much on relocation, but on better protection of external borders, on the one hand, better analysis of the flow, but perhaps a little later on in questions and answers I could develop this topic because there was no time left. In the coming months, besides the topic of security, the remaining files related to the protection of personal data online are important, especially after the recent situations and cases with Facebook and the single digital market, with the energy files, with the social pillar, the Programme I hope that I will also be able to develop this within the framework of questions and answers. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u9	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we'll start with the questions. First will ask questions the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you are, Mrs. Vasileva, for the first question to Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Pavlova! Thank you for the detailed presentation of the interim report on the results achieved so far during the period of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. Of course, we cannot fail to share the overall assessment of the many events that have been very successful so far, the progress in the legislative programme, the closure of some key files and the progress on others on which Bulgaria successfully conducts the dialogue. I think this is taken into account by both the media and international media, which are monitoring the processes, given the challenges we are facing. We MPs have made our contribution by supporting the priorities of the government's programme. Much has been done to make progress on key issues. In the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, as well as in all portfolio committees, we monitor and actively participate in the process of improving European legislation and support the government's efforts. Undoubtedly, however, the focus is the Western Balkans. I think this is the outstanding success of both Prime Minister Borisov and the government and all of us for being able to put the issue with the Western Balkans on the European Union's agenda. There are many evidences of this and we have contributed through the ratification of the Treaty on good neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation with Macedonia. The European strategy for enlargement of the Western Balkans was also adopted. Just a few days ago, progress was taken into account and two more countries were invited to start negotiations with the European Union. We are all waiting for the summit on 17 May and, in this sense, a political commitment to be adopted by the member states of the European Union. Therefore, my questions to you are: in what phase is the preparation of the expected political declaration, which is being prepared for the summit of the Western Balkans on 17 May in Sofia? Can you present at present more specific information about the highlights in the texts of the draft documents and the anex to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. For your answer, Madam Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vassileva! Due to the short period of time, I have not been able to present to you progress on all topics and priorities. One of the most important topics for Bulgaria is one of the four priorities that we proposed in the Programme of the Presidency, which was new and additional in the European agenda, and this is the topic of the European perspective and connectivity of the Western Balkans. We all remember when we proposed this topic in the summer of last year. We have received advice: "Don't, this topic is very difficult. To date, I can say that the first success of the Presidency is already a fact, namely, that this topic was not only recognized It has already become part of the long-term perspective. It has already become part of the agenda of the leaders, not only during the Bulgarian Presidency, but from now on. This was a very important moment for you because its sustainability, its long-term sustainability was important. On this topic, not only will the next Presidency continue to work as part of our trio, which Austria has confirmed, but also in the priorities already announced after the Bulgarian Presidency, Austria firmly stated that the European integration and perspective of the Western Balkans is a priority and also their commitment. It is important for us to continue this work after 2020 in the form of the new institutions. This is what we see with the requests that have been made, with the strategies that have been adopted and with the support that we have received in both Parliament and member states in a very clear and firm way. Of course, we have our challenges. There are countries like Spain and countries that do not accept the status of Kosovo. We have challenges that are still ahead of us. We knew from the beginning that it wouldn't be easy, but that shouldn't refuse us. This is a unique opportunity for us ourselves to establish the Balkans as a good place to live, as a place that creates potential, an opportunity for development, for investment, a place where young people can live and work, and not be viewed as a black or white spot on the map, as a region that is viewed with a bad eye, because we have something to be proud of in our region. Now is the time to confirm it and protect it. Not to mention that we are deeply convinced that the security, prosperity and, above all, the peace of Europe and the Balkans is going through the European integration and prosperity of these Western Balkans. At the same time, we do not want to give false expectations in any way. That is why we always say the summit in Sofia is not to give false expectations, it is not to make promises of membership or membership date. The topic is:.... perspective and connectivity of the Western Balkans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a very important clarification that we always do so that we do not create false expectations. We hope that the Political Declaration will remain more known as the Sofia Declaration and that it contains a political commitment that support for the integration of the Western Balkans is an irreversible process, a priority to join and support the 28 member states of the European Union, after which all six of our partners from the Western Balkans will recognize the path on which to work. In order not only to remain the political commitment as part of the declaration, I can share with you the good news from last night.. Last night there was a meeting of the diplomats in the format COREPER I, COREPER II, where the preliminary text of the declaration was adopted and we already have support to move forward. What we have proposed, what the Bulgarian Presidency proposed, is that there should be an annex to this declaration that contains specific projects that are in several categories. First of all, in the "Connectivity" category, this is transport connectivity, energy connectivity, digital connectivity, educational connectivity, and, of course, cultural connectivity. Cultural connectivity, which is also very important with projects to be identified, projects to be implemented in the coming years, as undoubtedly in the name of what each of these countries must realise in the coming years. This annex will contain projects related to the rule of law and security in the region. These are the proposals in the specific measures and priorities to be part of the scope of this annex to the declaration to be adopted at the Sofia Summit on 17 May. I use the case to say, if the time allows, apart from the summit on 17 May, on 16 May evening as part of the new format, which was created to the leaders of the European Council at the initiative of President Tusk, in Sofia will be held for the first time such a type of exhibition, informal meeting, informal meeting in the evening, dinner of the leaders at the invitation of Tusk and the host of Prime Minister Borisov of the leaders in format 28, at which the leaders will have the opportunity to discuss the common topics on the agenda and the priorities of the Presidency. One of the main focusses of this meeting will be the digital economy, digital skills, digital transformation as part of the priorities that we have set, and protection of citizens' personal data, especially given the recent challenges that I mentioned earlier, as well as the situation and problems in cyber attacks. This is a great challenge that stands before all of us and towards the strategy that has been proposed for consideration. That's what I think I answered in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u13	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the first question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u14	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister! Dear colleagues! Today's hearing, of course, was initiated by the Political Party GERB, but as you can see, the application that we had asked as a political party was here to be Mr. Borisov the Prime Minister, who is president at the moment of the Council of Europe. It was normal to give answers to the questions we were going to ask. The governors have decided today that you will be here listening to you. Mrs. Pavlova, my question will be focused in the direction of how the examination of the files related to the so-called packages of Security and Migration. You know that since the end of 2016, the European Commission has presented a legislative package for reform of the Schengen Information System, which includes three proposals for regulations for the use of this information system for police cooperation, border checks and return, and these files are expected to be closed during our Presidency. In this regard, it is very important for both the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens to receive objective information from you................................................................................................................ What specific topics are discussed? What are the achievements, if you can explain to us, the government in the direction of changing Dublin regulations, where have they reached? And most of all, we are concerned with a fundamental issue... in this context of examining these files, what is Bulgaria's progress regarding the inclusion of our country in Schengen, because in the end it is clear that the Bulgarian government must defend these priorities, which are strictly individual to our country. Above all, we are interested in where we are with Schengen, and what vision do our European partners have on this subject? Do our country intend to be accepted into Schengen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as I mentioned, the package related to the reform of the asylum system concerns a series of legislative files, a total of seven, in different scope, in order to achieve a comprehensive system related to strengthening the external borders, reforming precisely the Schengen agreement, reforming the asylum system. This package includes the Blue Card Directive, namely the Directive that will allow us to analyse asylum-seeking citizens, an analysis of their profile, of their education, so that they can be invited and adopted in relation to the needs of the country concerned by specialists in certain areas, as well as a directive on which we do not yet have a complete compromise on this dossier. The reason for this, I suppose you know, is that the blue card system provides for a new unified system to be implemented by all the countries of the European Union. The older members of the European Union do not fully agree with the proposed mechanism because they have their own systems, on which they still make such a type of selection of asylum seekers or, generally, migrants. It is a challenge for them to choose between their national system or to enter into a common, unified system. On this challenge we will work in the coming months. The other legislative package includes the interoperability of the systems, as well as part of a reform of the Schengen and European criminal data information systems. This is extremely important precisely in order to be able, as part of this system, to track individuals travelling and living within this territory. You know, the overall commitment to reform this area, as part of the reform of the asylum system, because the facts are such, Bulgaria has repeatedly said, we also stated it in the debate related to the Schengen reform and the movement of Bulgaria's candidacy and entry into the Schengen area. A few weeks ago, a very important topic was held in the European Parliament, where once again the question was raised that Bulgaria and Romania, I would say, were not always treated equally and sometimes even treated discriminatoryly because for six years we have met certain criteria that are clearly scheduled, but based on not these clearly defined objective criteria, but based on subjective political criteria, some of the Member States still do not support our steps forward. I can say that the debate was held in a way in which we received serious support from the various groups in the European Parliament, support that Bulgaria and Romania, precisely because they have long met the requirements, including that Bulgaria was given as an example, which, although not a member of the Schengen area in this sense, protects much better Europe's external border than some neighbouring countries, not to quote them. This is a serious issue on the agenda. In these months, although this is not a direct object and is not a specific topic of the Bulgarian Presidency, the government's efforts are, in parallel with the work on the Presidency, to show all the systems and measures that are built so that we can once again justify that we have not only fulfilled the criteria, we not only meet the requirements, but it is high time to get the full support of the countries that are still expressing skeptical attitude. We know which of these countries are the most skeptical. We see positive indications from them as well. I am convinced that these processes cannot be linked to each other, but I have confidence and optimism that very soon we may have a positive development, at least partially, in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pavlova. The next question is from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! As a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, I had the opportunity to monitor closely the preparations for the Presidency and also the implementation of the commitments of Bulgaria, which took over the Presidency from 1 January. At Commission meetings you regularly reported, accurately exported all previous activities. I can say that from my participation in one of the events, I have seen a wonderful organization that I can compare with the organization in other countries where I have been. I believe that Bulgaria will be set as an example in this regard. In addition, you have made a very good advertising campaign, which, compared to the advertising campaigns of countries such as Poland or Estonia, which have shown only their capitals, or Malta, where apart from the sea, I believe that in our campaign the whole of Europe understood, and I think beyond the borders of Europe understood that Bulgaria very authoritatively and successfully presided over the Council of the European Union. In this regard, I would like to get acquainted with some aspects of the work which, I think, have been left out of our attention so far. The first question: how is the preparation of the new financial framework for the period 2021 going? The second question: how far are the preparations for the preparation of the financial package for connecting Bulgaria with the Western Balkans?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, thank you for the question, because this is an extremely important priority of the four priorities that Bulgaria has placed as key for its presidency. Due to the limited time, I was unable to deepen the exhibition on the subject. What I can say is that from the beginning of the beginning of the Bulgarian Presidency, we have made a series of very intense meetings at different levels, as part of the preparatory meetings and negotiations within the framework of the debate and the preparation of the draft multiannual financial framework for the period after 2020. The challenge is very great because after the decision to leave the European Union, the new budget that we need to make together on a medium-term basis is with a serious minus between 10 and 15 billion. EUR per year. With such a serious minus on an annual basis, and the needs, challenges and priorities that at the same time we are all betting every day in Europe; the challenges that we need to address in the topic of Security and Migration, which require a huge financial resource, at least 10 billion. EUR additional; the challenges affecting climate and climate change; the issue of cybersecurity and digital economy; the single digital market; all this requires additional and new funding. Adopted proclamation of the social pillar in Gothenburg last year, our desire to increase funds and investments for education, the Erasmus+ programme and the doubling of the budget for it, all this requires an even greater financial resource, and we start at minus 15 billion. Annually. The debates and meetings we held required a serious analysis of how to achieve more, how to be more effective. At the same time, for Bulgaria, it was important to ensure and show the good examples of cohesion policy in order to continue to function, to continue to support the alignment of the differences between regions, not to deepen them; how the old, as we call them, traditional policies, regional policy, agricultural policy to continue to function without opposing the new topics, challenges and priorities. On 9 March we held a meeting in Sofia at a high level, at which we also heard the views of the Member States on the issue of raising the contributions of the countries to the budget. We have received a request and support for our proposal to preserve cohesion policy. For most of the countries, we have heard agreement to increase their share and contribution to the European budget so that we can respond to these challenges. There are countries that at this stage do not agree with this increase, for example Austria, but this is still a matter of negotiations. The project will come out on 2 May 2018. Next week, literally in a few days, the first framework project of the multiannual financial framework will be presented at the College of Commissioners in the European Parliament. On 8 June 2018 in Sofia, we will make the most important debate for us the future policy and how to reschedule these funds in the budget in the most effective way so that we can continue investment for development of the regions and cross-border cooperation. As you pointed out in your second question, it is not only important for us to look at it from the point of view of the region, not only from the point of view of Bulgaria as a member country, but also important for us connectivity policies, for cross-border cooperation, which should also be supported financially. Through the Neighborhood Programme, through the Connectivity Programme and the Connectivity Instrument with Europe, we also support the development, integration and transport economic connectivity of the countries of the Western Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question for fellow Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Thank you for the detailed presentation of the interim report on the progress of the Bulgarian Presidency. One of the main priorities set out in the Bulgarian Presidency is the modernisation and simplification of the common agricultural policy after 2020 and the agricultural budget within the next multiannual financial framework. In the context of this, my question is: what is the progress on this priority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Mehmedova! As part of the debates in the context of what I just responded to about the multiannual financial framework, the defending and firm position that Bulgaria expressed as a national position is the preservation of traditional policies and the preservation of the financial resources, with which, under these traditional policies, we provide funding for both the development of Bulgarian regions and cities and under the common agricultural policy. On the position that we have presented in this debate, we have received serious support, including from donor countries such as France, for the preservation of this policy, of course, it must be reformed. There is no way, in terms of reducing the European budget and better efficiency, that we are not looking for a better redirection of the resource under the programme. It was important for us that we received support for it to be preserved. The next challenge, which is part of the debate and the working group dealing with this issue, in preparation for a high-level meeting in Sofia in the first week of June 3 and 4 June in Sofia, we expect the ministers of agriculture to be able to do a thorough analysis based on the work of our experts working on the topic to come up with a clear position of the Presidency on what the scope of the new investments should be. The new investments that will be made under the common agricultural policy also need to be updated to the new realities. For example: they must be linked to better energy efficiency of businesses and industry in the sector; they must also be linked to climate challenges that have their impact on agriculture. At the same time, what we have as a commitment is continued investments to support rural areas in the direction of preventing their depopulation and support for young people, support for young farmers and all that we have as investment, we will definitely continue to defend ourselves as a policy. I hope that the agriculture ministers in the first week of June, discussing this issue, will reach a unified position with which the Presidency will come out so that we can, by already passing on to the Austrian Presidency from now on in the ongoing debates until the adoption of the Framework is taken into account and put in an irreversible way this position of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, the question of the Political Party "Volja" is no question to Minister Pavlova. Moving on to the second round of questions. A question from GERB's parliamentary group? There are no questions from GERB's parliamentary group. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Honourable colleagues! In view of the complicated and conjunctive situation and the highlighted interest in this event, the meeting on 17 May 2018 with the leaders of the Western Balkan countries emerged as one of the most significant events within the Bulgarian Presidency's calendar. In recent months, you have declared the expectation that Bulgaria will overcome the problems of achieving a real commitment to the European integration of the countries of the said region. However, the statements expressed in the last few days by representatives of the executive authority give me reason to ask: did Bulgaria refuse the most ambitious plan to adopt a common content and binding final document from the 28 member states of the European Union, plus the six partners from the Western Balkans, or is it rather about adopting a formal one? Is this not a lowering of our ambitions and is it not due to the fact or rather to Bulgaria's difficulties to ensure the participation at the highest level of some of the member states of the European Union and our neighbours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vitanov, I would like to assure you and strongly say that on the contrary there is no lowering of ambition, there is no reason and reason for this concern. On the contrary, the efforts of all of us, I trust both the Parliament and the entire Bulgarian society and institutions, are aimed at this successfully, because Bulgaria now, when it is in the focus of the spotlight, should not only show unity as we have stated in our slogan, but we must succeed, precisely because of the disagreements between the countries of the Western Balkans and between some of the Member States of the European Union, to achieve this compound and this agreement, which we appeal to and which is part of the drive of the Bulgarian Presidency. We do not lose our optimism for several reasons. The first of the reasons I can point out is related to the attitudes to this topic. They started very negatively in the past year in the months when the topic developed and we received support from the different institutions and state factors, evolved very much, including you know how the Presidency started with the negative articles and titles of Bulgaria and about Bulgaria, to date I can say that we already have more than 18 000 publications about Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Presidency. Only 5.5 percent of them are negative. We turned the trend, turned the image for Bulgaria, and this is very, very important. If we look at these 18 000 publications, 80% of them concern precisely the Western Balkans in a different angle and focus, and this, I am talking, in the world media, I am not only talking about Bulgarian media, and this is extremely important. We will not lower our ambition for another reason, what I said in the previous speech. Last night at the COREPER II meeting, it was adopted with agreement from all the draft of this declaration. I have read it, I have it in me, it still cannot be distributed, and this gives me the confidence so strongly to say it to you because the Declaration contains a clear political commitment and this Declaration will be adopted by the 28 countries, and this is something very important. The six countries, in this format, in which we are planning the supplied by the 28 countries, as is the format, are then provided and adopted respectively by the six countries recognised by the six countries which form an integral part of this format. This is precisely the request that we have made, this is the ambition that we have stated, and this will also be the result of the meeting that we will achieve. Moreover, we will achieve, as I mentioned, the proposal from us to this declaration and the annex to concrete projects, with which we are even doing something more, our ambition is plus one, in something more, to guarantee sustainability, to ensure the concrete and to ensure for the next ten years clear and concrete projects related to the integration of the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pavlova. A question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? There won't be. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, fellow Members? Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u30	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! One of the main priorities of the Presidency is precisely the topic of the Western Balkans and we all expect the meeting on 17 May 2018 in Sofia. This meeting will be attended by representatives of the six Western Balkan countries and after the Prime Minister's meeting this week in Kosovo there is confirmation that there will be a representative of Kosovo as well. I would like to ask if there is information about the presence of the five Member States of the European Union which do not recognise Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u32	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mehmedova, at this point we do not have any country that has categorically refused its presence and participation. Each of the countries, including those who do not recognise Kosovo, participate in the talks, participate in the dialogue and participate in the adoption of the political declaration that has been the subject. Yes, they have their objections, yes, they have their concerns and they have their disagreements, especially when we talk about Kosovo. At the same time, however, these countries have clear support for the other countries, the other five countries within the context of the six countries in the Western Balkans. So we are looking for, I would call it, all diplomatic ways, instruments and informal ones, so that we can achieve a balanced compromise solution. These have been applied before, both at the meeting many years ago in Thessaloniki and in the format of such meetings, they are sought by avoiding names by using the names of capitals and other types of mechanisms they use in the diplomatic order. We will try to implement and offer all acceptable mechanisms only and only to have this unity and achieve the final result we are looking for. I'm not saying it's gonna be easy, and I'm not saying we're guaranteed, but we work hard for it every day. Nothing is guaranteed, you know, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, so on the 17th we will know the end effect, but we must work hard in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. From the parliamentary group of Volya? No questions asked. Then we move on to the next procedure - the attitude of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to the hearing of Minister Pavlova. I'm asking for treatment, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u34	First GERB take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u35	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u36	There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u37	Read the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u38	Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u39	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria has repeatedly, far before its launch, stated its support and positive attitude to the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. A specific expression of this attitude was also our active participation and adoption of a common position by Parliament at the beginning of December last year. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that this common position contains principled support for the priorities enshrined in the Programme of the Bulgarian Presidency, as well as a series of topics that we have defined here together as short-term and long-term priorities for the European Union and Bulgaria. In the same common position is stated a certain principle of work. We agreed that our political consensus should be maintained and fueled by regular meetings between the government and the National Assembly. While, to some extent, this hearing, the first one, four months after the beginning of our six-month presidency, as well as the activity of the Committee on European Affairs, as well as the opportunities given by the blitzcontrol, we can say to some extent that the ministers give the necessary information to the National Assembly. However, the same cannot be said of the Prime Minister. Mr. Borisov has not once come to seek the support of Parliament and to inform him of the results of the most important meetings of the Heads of State and Government, the meetings of the European Council. Such meetings were held at the highest level since the beginning of the Bulgarian Presidency on February 23rd, where the key issue for our country and the Union was discussed, which has been raised today many times for the multiannual financial framework, and on March 22rd and March 23rd where topics such as Turkey, the Western Balkans, digital Europe, jobs and competitiveness were discussed. The Bulgarian positions and results of these meetings were not discussed in the National Assembly and these are all missed opportunities for additional political consolidation and support. However, we, the parliamentary group of BSP, will continue to defend Bulgarian interests. It is no coincidence that we have asked you today about Schengen and Bulgaria's accession to Schengen, because you understand that it is somehow difficult for the Bulgarian citizens who are waiting for hours to pass the Greek border, for example, or who are lining up at the passport control counter, while other Europeans pass quickly, it is somehow difficult for them to feel presidents of the European Union. Our support on the issue of Schengen is complete and unconditional. So is our support for the issues of the Western Balkans. Last month, the President of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Chairman of our parliamentary group, held important meetings with the prime ministers of Macedonia and Albania and with the President of Montenegro, and our support will continue on the eve of the important for the Presidency, for Europe and for the Balkans, when on 16 May 2018 the left leaders of Europe will gather here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still early to give evaluations, it is early to brag, it is early to criticize, but today's discussion is worth mentioning and is an occasion to note a few things. We can thank them from now on, but also encourage in their efforts the hundreds serving in the Bulgarian and European administration, which technically and expertly provide the hundreds and thousands of events and meetings. The political assessment of the Presidency cannot be merely quantitative. The number of meetings is not as important as their results. In this sense, we pay attention to you, Madam Minister, to two aspects on which there is a need for additional efforts and where Bulgaria is in particular quality. Firstly, due to our geographical situation, we are interested in trying to move much further the migration package. We realize that this is not easy, but you can count on our support and expertise. It is also nice to discuss this issue here so that we can have a consolidated position. Secondly, due to the fact that the European Commissioner, broadcast from Bulgaria, took over precisely this portfolio, it is imperative to speed up the work with regard to the digital market and in particular the draft directive on copyright in the single digital market and the draft regulation on the regulation on the regulation of the free movement of available data in the European Union. In conclusion, we thank you, Madam Minister, for your time and for the information you have provided us. We hope and will make it possible to continue this discussion on European issues and with the Bulgarian Prime Minister, because Europe is close to the citizens when it is spoken about when it is spoken about here, including critically and in all its assembly. Because if we don't talk about it in a complex way, [[the President signals that time has run out]] and true to Europe, Europe remains captured only by those who mention it to fuel political and interinstitutional opposition, and this is the exact opposite of the idea of consensus. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. For your treatment, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We have also listened with interest to the exposé made by Minister Pavlova for the first half of the European Presidency, and we want to address several issues related to the European Presidency. The first topic is the way in which the European Presidency began with an extremely large political offensive by GERB and the Prime Minister all responsible political forces in the country to ensure an appropriate political climate, national responsible behaviour, so that Bulgaria can carry out this highly responsible mission for the first time. I believe that we of the DPS have fulfilled our national responsible position with content and we are working on these issues that concern the European Presidency. Our assessment is that despite the expectations of being in the opposite direction, so did the other political parliamentary and extra-parliamentary forces, so somehow the opposition ensured this calmness. In fact, the deterioration of the climate, the political one, against the background of which the European Presidency is held, I am referring to this topic because it was extremely important for the Prime Minister and GERB, the deterioration of the climate came from the ruling coalition, countless scandals. I do not want to list them now, because they are so fresh that no one has forgotten them, which at times even created the feeling that a vote of no confidence can happen, what is meant by a vote of no confidence: during the European Presidency to remain without a government. We pay attention to this from the DPS because we on our channels, speaking to our European partners from the liberal parties, are aware that they have an assessment of these events here and the background on which the political stability of the country in which the Bulgarian European Presidency is held is held. In that regard, it's good that when you want something from others, you can provide it for yourself. And in this regard, for our greatest regret and during the European Presidency, our political finding that this coalition, which governs Bulgaria, was not the pro-European coalition of Bulgaria. So much for that. Now in terms of the topics related to the European Presidency. Yes, there has been a lot of progress and many of the topics are actually being worked on. We are even under the impression not only us, but the whole Bulgarian society as if the efforts of the Prime Minister and part of the team are primarily aimed at priorities related to the European process and foreign policy. But we do not have this feeling in terms of the topics in which we should use our European Presidency to protect the national interest the topics related to competitiveness, the topic of which the DPS asked the question about protecting the interests of farmers in the country and a number of other topics related specifically to the Bulgarian national interest. Because if we cannot use the European Presidency to protect our national interests in a slightly more concrete plan, it makes no sense that we will use the European Presidency to raise our image in some other direction, to say commonplace as intermediaries, or as a country that launches processes that are very useful otherwise for Europe and for the Balkans. We are focusing on this because we at the DPS will continue to work on these topics. This is not just about Schengen. This is also about entering the euro area waiting room. We are also talking about a number of problems related to the energy sector, to agriculture, to competitiveness, to small and medium-sized enterprises and so on, not to list them. There, Madam Minister, we are with the feeling that we from the DPS are not making enough and concrete efforts in this direction, somehow what the senior European partners say. And we would like to note and note this fact that, until the end of the European Presidency, we will follow this process and work. I remind you that on 27 and 28 April 2018, thanks to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in Sofia will be held within the framework of the European Presidency, of course, the General European Summit of ALDE [[The President Mr. Emil Hristov signaled that time had expired.]] You weren't so hard on the speakers before me, but I'll take it from you. There will also be a number of premieres and European liberal actors from our partners. We will put the questions there again, although only one example to give from the reality here. Many times we have insisted to the Dutch Prime Minister and to the rest of our European liberal partners about the topic.........Shengen.......................... We'll be a little uncomfortable after the blunder at Sofia airport now, but we'll put it back on. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS, single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Attitude? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that today's hearing was mandatory because we had to really understand what the progress of the Presidency was and we had to be aware of the mid-term report which was presented only days ago in Strasbourg. And here, of course, I would like to congratulate not only the minister responsible for the European Presidency, but all the ministries, all the parliamentarians, the entire administration and all the experts who worked for the so far successful Presidency, which Bulgaria has. I can assure you that in all these meetings, which you may be doing at a political level from the various political families, there is no country to participate in the Presidency of informal councils, not to have remained satisfied and received extremely good treatment, both from the expertise that Bulgaria has presented and also from hospitality. I must tell you that we have done something that was extremely important: in a short period of time to prepare for this European Presidency. In connection with Brexit and Britain's exit from the European Union, we received the Presidency by half a year earlier. But what I can assure you is that yes, indeed, Mr. Tsonev, each of us must contribute to the authority and achieve the objectives that are in the Presidency. And you said that you had a similar meeting of your political family ALDE, BSP colleagues might have a meeting with PES as well. I hope that they will go beyond the contacts and talks they have had only with the Western Balkans, because some of the policies taken in the European Union must be taken with the leaders of the European Union. And what I want to assure you is that on 16 May 2018 there will be a meeting of the leaders of the European People's Party, where the topics related to the priorities of the Presidency will be discussed. But most importantly, cohesion policy, which is an extremely important focus of each of the political forces, is already in serious debate in informal meetings, which were also held in the meetings of the Council of relevant ministers. Here, of course, on the topic of Security, what has also been said by Lilyana Pavlova, I fully want to support that the assessment given by LIBE, the Commission, which is on rights and freedoms in the European Parliament, also by all national parliaments and the assessment of progress made and the adoption of the rules of procedure right in Sofia for parliamentary control by national and European Parliament on Europol is high. Here I would like to thank all colleagues from all the parliamentary groups who participated and could actually feel the atmosphere of this constructiveness and this positive action, which Bulgaria can now take advantage of. And, of course, the most important thing is that the Western Balkans coincided as a priority not only in the Bulgarian Presidency, but it is also as added value to the Berlin process. And just a week ago, the House of Lords in Britain once again turned its attention to meetings that must be made and the progress that the Western Balkans must receive in order to maintain their Euro-Atlantic orientation. And what was also not mentioned by Minister Pavlova, but perhaps the limited time did not give her the opportunity, just to say that up to now there have been about a thousand events in Sofia, Brussels, Strasbourg and there have been about ten thousand delegates involved in these events, which means that this is a huge amount of work. And here especially to thank perhaps the only clearly expressed Euro-Atlantic in BSP - this is Mr. Vigenin, who really, with his committee and with the committee of Gemma Grozdanova, with the committee of General Popov, of Menda Stoyanova, who had a bearing on the events that are of parliamentary dimension, indeed Mr. Vigenin did not participate in the rhetoric and the speech that we observe from the left and the sabotage of the process for Euro-Presidentship.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u44	Who sabotaged it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u45	Because, fellow Members, let us remember how we started the European Presidency. Let us remember October and November 2017. The biggest criticism and the biggest populism that was exposed here, from the parliamentary tribune, was right on the part of the BSP. I am glad that you realized the importance that in this way you do not contribute to the authority of Bulgaria [[BSP lines and lines]] And you work against the authority of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u46	What happened to Schengen? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u47	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u48	...and what I can assure you is that we will continue to work on all the current issues for Schengen and for the Eurozone, and most importantly, cohesion policy to be preserved in parameters that will enable us to take advantage of European solidarity and in the new financial programming period that must be voted on by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u49	Where is Volen Siderov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova, for your time. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for all your efforts, and I would like to apologize on behalf of the MPs for the false news that was constantly coming out...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u51	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u52	...and accompanied you in this difficult process so that we can really show the dignity, authority and identity of Bulgaria that it is Euro-Atlantically oriented and is a strong European state. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, come in, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is expected to pass without scandal, thank God. That's good, because the subject is such that... [[Heckling]] Yeah, someone's here to say something. Do you intend to do that? Don't, it doesn't make sense! Because this is also the subject we have received the Presidency protocol, we have come to our turn and we are doing it. To us, the Patriotic Powers, the expectations of this Presidency were not very important. Right, the question is a burden, it has to go. Yeah, it's six months of rotation, and given Brexit, we're getting it early. Here all the political forces have the awareness that we should not expose ourselves to foreigners in this case Europeans. That's what we should do. Now it is not easy for Mrs. Pavlova, in view of the complex relations in the Bulgarian society, to make the corresponding balances so that we can come out peacefully without major excesses, to have a balanced policy and the six months to pass. Now, in the middle of the Presidency, the result is generally achieved, we have achieved it, we have three more months to roll. Something like two years should go by in the barracks, and here it's less than six months. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At first this is not this European Union according to our ideas, which should be a European Union as a Union of Nations, nations as the great De Gaulle has formulated it, because we have another idea of the European Union. The European Union yes, but not this European Union of Brussels bureaucrats and those who come to Bulgaria, not those so-called families, which are not actually both conservatives and liberals, but there in their vast majority are liberals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u55	Where is Volen Siderov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u56	From this point of view, we can give a good assessment of how European Presidency is going according to our ideas and even according to the fact that we will gain nothing and we will lose nothing from this European Presidency. So far, so good in that sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u57	Good for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u58	So today's debate points to that, today's report points to that. Stop being dramatic, don't try to make a scandal about something that doesn't deserve to be scandalous and something that... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u59	Please don't come into conversation, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u60	In this regard, it is simply pointless and there are other guidelines in which to show your opposition. But don't touch, don't bother, don't play! Colleagues, let us wish for the next three months to go into this spirit, in this sense, as the first three months and somewhere in late June to congratulate ourselves with a successful Presidency. I know that then I tell you, from the opposition you will start a wild criticism of what has not been done, what we have not received, what has not been accomplished and nothing can be obtained for the Bulgarian national interest, which is the main one. And from GERB, of course, will talk about how successful the European Presidency has been, how wonderfully it has passed, how seamless it is... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u61	... And the truth will be somewhere in between. So three more months. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Attitude? I won't. I'm calling a recess. The beginning of parliamentary control is at 11:00. Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova, for today. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will introduce you to the new questions for the period from 5 April to 19 April 2018. A question came in from: - MP Daniela Saveklieva and a group of MPs to Minister Vladislav Goranov on what the Ministry of Finance has achieved to reduce the administrative burden. The reply should be made in plenary on 27 April 2018; - MP Aleksandar Ivanov and a group of MPs again to Minister Vladislav Goranov on the analysis of the Ministry of Finance for the data on the financial situation of municipalities in 2017 and for municipalities in a financial recovery procedure in 2018. A reply should be made in writing by 30 April 2018; - MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Rumen Georgiev, Chavdar Velinov to Minister Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the development of the sector. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 4 May 2018. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Manol Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on issues from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov for questions from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Radoslava Chekanska and Kiril Kalfin; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Radoslava Chekanska and Kiril Kalfin; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov of five questions from the MPs Valentin Milushev, Vasil Tsvetkov and Martin Tinchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on issues from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danev; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question of MPs Nikolay Penev and Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Go ahead, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure relates to the way today's parliamentary control is taking place. The BSP Parliamentary Group currently has over 40 issues that should be in today's parliamentary control. During the period since Tuesday, a dozen more have been set, but there are certainly 40 that should already be considered. Of them at the moment, at today's sitting, there are exactly four, i.e. 36 questions to be considered today and they are not being dealt with. This is for various reasons, but generally because of the lack of ministers to respond. Some of them have asked for a delay in a dozen questions within the Rules, however, the other 20 are outside the Rules, as far as the reason is that they are absent, that it is European Presidency or whatever else they are dealing with. My urgent request is to bring order to parliamentary control so that the ministers answer the questions and do not turn out that only 10% of the questions asked are addressed within the time limit. So I'm asking you next week to make sure this doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Indeed, there is some delay in some of the questions, as you rightly pointed out, for objective reasons. We are in contact with the ministers who have delayed the questions. From the management of the National Assembly we will do what is necessary to be able to participate in the timetable of the answers. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My point of order is again in the manner of parliamentary control, concerning a written question to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Obviously Mr. Moskovski does not want to answer the question that is asked because we do not receive the necessary information, namely to provide copies of the management contracts of the Board of Directors of Holding BDZ JSC and BDZ. The motives with which this thing has been denied are extremely untenable. The practice of accessing public information, which is not here, is parliamentary control, is in another direction. That's why I'm returning this question with a clear awareness that it hasn't been answered. I would ask you to make a remark and to require the Minister of Transport to answer this question, as it is appropriate to answer an up-to-date question of a Member of the National Assembly, because the subject of BDZ is extremely important both in terms of passenger transport and freight. You know, there are enough accidents and problems out there and we need to get all and adequate information that is needed on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Minister Moskovski will be informed of your opinion and frustration. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is evident that it is practice and a tendency for Mr. Moskovski not to answer the questions of MPs. I thought it was only our question that he approached this way, but apparently it's a practice in the Ministry of Transport. My colleague Dimitar Danchev and I have asked a question concerning the public transport in Sofia and the inter-communal transport, as a result of the speeches of his employees - Deputy Minister of Transport and the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration - in the presence of the Deputy Minister, to be precise. Are these contracts concluded in accordance with the legislation and payments under these contracts harmful or not damaging Sofia Municipality and other municipalities, respectively? [[Heckling]] Relax, guys, I'll tell you. Mr. Moskovski's reply quoted the regulations, two or three paragraphs of the law, two or three paragraphs of the regulation and nothing specific about matters. Mr President, I return the question to you and I ask you, as you return questions to Members of Parliament when they do not respond to the Rules of the National Assembly, so that you return the answers to ministers who do not answer the questions asked by Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I will inform Minister Moskovski of your opinion. We don't have another procedure. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. The first question is from the MP Pavel Shopov on pollution of the Stara Reka river, which takes place through the Stara Zagora region. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u70	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is not some kind of mega- and environmental question, such as some environmental, so-called social organisations ask, which are actually with these issues of local importance, but are for the whole country, do not deal because there they have no account, there they do not receive money. My question is about a small creek that flows from the Chirpan Heights and soon flows near the Haskovo region in the Maritsa River. A really wild nature around here is pastorally beautiful. Such views, such pictures are worthy of the brush of an artist, and it passes past the monastery. The oldest monastery in Europe, undoubtedly and clearly, is Atanasius. For several years, residents around, including the monks in the monastery, have noticed that this river is cloudy and contaminated also outside the spring season, when it is normal, given the spring rains to be contaminated and to look more cloudy. And the fish that was teeming a few years ago has disappeared. My question to you is: were there signals, surveys by environmental institutions in the Stara Zagora area of these problems that seem to have arisen and bothered local people and nearby villages? Has pollution been studied, is there first pollution, is it investigated where this pollution comes from, if there is one, and what measures will be taken to solve the problems?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, in answer to your question, I will inform you of the following. The monastery of St. Atanasius is situated in the watercourse of the Stara reka river and falls within the water body of the Stara reka in the river basin management planner in the Eastern Black Sea region in the period 2016 - 2021. In fact, this is the time for planning management of this region. In 2017, a moderate environmental and good chemical condition was determined for the water body. The indicators for exceeding the standards for good environmental status are: bottom microinvertebrate fauna; electrical conductivity; BPC; nitrogen nitrate; nitrogen nitrite; total nitrogen; total phosphorus and orthophoswatts. In the water body there are two points for monitoring surface water: at the village of Izvorovo, hydrobiological monitoring, which reports moderate condition, and in the village of Celina, hydrobiological and biochemical monitoring in poor condition. In the examined water body there are no permits for discharge of sewerage in settlements and industrial waste water. Probably sources of pollution causing deterioration of the condition of the river are settlements and diffuse contamination with biogenes from agriculture and livestock farming. This is characteristic of plain farming areas, especially small plain rivers, which during the underwater period are almost drying up. In order to improve the state of the water body in the river basin management plan of the Eastern Bulgarian region, a measure of exploration monitoring and identification of sources of pollutants and its removal is planned. On 17 April 2018, a check was carried out at the site of the Old River River by the Swimming Directorate of the East-Belly Sea Region (RIO) - Stara Zagora, and the Regional Laboratory - Stara Zagora. The area of the Old River from the Maritsa Motorway near the Gita 1 dam near the village of Gita is followed by the village of Gita, where it also falls the Monastery of St. Atanasius, located near the Trakia Motorway. Probation was performed at three points of the river for a physical chemical analysis of surface water and a constant protocol was drawn up. After an examination of the area around the village of Gita, Chirpan municipality, there was found the presence of a farm for animals and birds, around which there is a significant amount of manure mass, in close proximity to the water site of Dre, which flows into the river Stara Reka. A water sample was taken from the injection site of the ravine in the river Stara Reka. The samples are analyzed by the Regional Laboratory of Stara Zagora, and the results show biogenic contamination with nitrogen and phosphorus substances. The competent authority of RIO Stara Zagora shall take action to sanction the farm for the pollution of river waters with biogenic elements. Regarding the control of the livestock farm, we also referred to the Regional Food Safety Directorate for taking competence actions in relation to Order No 44 of 20 April 2006 on animal health requirements for establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u74	Mr. Minister, I must admit that with great concern I have approached the issue and decided to ask it because I was worried that the impressions of the residents around, from the surrounding villages, may be based on some subjective sensations. They were a few people, without contact with each other, and regardless of each other, they gave me the signal. Thus, the doubt remained in me, and I decided to ask the question, given what the Abbot of the monastery also told me. I approach spiritual persons, their opinions, always with the presumption of loyalty and adequacy as their position, whether priests or monks. In this case, a monk. From your answer, I see that there is a problem, and you even identified it, which matches the opinion of some of the people who asked me the question. I didn't even expect such serious measures to be taken for such a short period of time and such an investigation. For me, this is the beginning to solve the problem. It must be because it is particularly important what you said is the same with other small, i.e. low water rivers, which, given the small flow rate, are clearly influenced by the domestic activity around, or as in this case a farm is able to disrupt the balance. Thank you for your answer. I'm hopeful that the problem will be solved. Moreover, I assure you that with great attention your response is waiting for people from certain villages from Golden meadow, from the people living around the monastery, from the relatives. This should be an approach to solving many similar environmental problems in the country. It doesn't matter how significant and big the problems are here and there. The question is that they should be less both in a purely domestic order and in small settlements. Thank you, I think with this question and this answer we will contribute to solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. In fact, I have no doubt that I will be receiving such questions from representatives of the United patriots, GERB, representatives of the conservative right, who care and pay particular attention to the local communities, all the more so when we include Christian values in this group, which are also typical. In general, the Ministry is trying very seriously to focus its attention on this type of problems. Naturally, we have limited powers. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has its powers, the local authorities have their powers. This is a problem that happens in many low water rivers, especially in a drying period. This does not mean that we should not pay attention, on the contrary, we sent a check as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, trying to identify the exact problem so that we can make the appropriate prescriptions and hope that people will be in better well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Neno Dimov is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the objectives of the changes set out in the new Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. You have the floor, Mr. Stoyanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the summer of last year, the Bulgarian government adopted its Decision No 28 on reducing the administrative and regulatory burden on citizens and businesses. At a later stage, another decision was adopted on adopting measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement for the submission of certain official paper-based certification documents. In this regard and in correspondence with priority No 39 of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria Programme in the period 2017 - 2021, the relevant environmental requirements were adopted in order to optimize preventive activity in order to facilitate the procedures of the investment process. My question to you is: what are the main objectives associated with the changes set out in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, and possibly what is envisaged in this bill to alleviate the administrative and regulatory burden on citizens and businesses and what are the measures set out in this bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, in answer to the question, I will inform you of the following. The draft amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act has the following objectives: firstly, the establishment of a common procedure for investment proposals which are subject to mandatory environmental impact assessment, compulsory complex authorisation and safety report for undertakings with high risk potential. The procedure is optional and will be carried out at the request of the contracting authority. The common procedure will result in speeding up the process of authorising economic and production activities, as well as a coherent guarantee for the next stage of construction and use of the site. Secondly, introduces the one-stop shop principle, with one competent authority regarding the complex authorisation procedure, which will lead to a reduction in the overall duration of the procedures. The bill has been developed in connection with the implementation of objectives of the Government's Programme to reduce administrative and regulatory burdens on citizens and businesses. The bill is consistent with proposals from the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. The amendments provided for by the Bill are as follows: introducing a single common mandatory EIA procedure; a complex authorisation and safety report by means of reconciliation, integration and withdrawal of repeated stages of the separate and consistent implementation of the three separate procedures; reducing the number of documents required by the applicants for administrative services; bringing together and reducing administrative time limits and the overall duration of the three administrative procedures under EIA, complex authorisation and safety report; using electronic administrative services for environmental impact assessment; introducing the principle of the one-stop shop and one competent authority with regard to the procedures under complex authorisation; reducing the overall duration of the procedures under complex authorisation; releasing human, time and material resources in administration; introducing an approach to integrated, and an overall assessment of the impact of integrated applications on the environment, human health, economic and social tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your information on the proposals for amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. This information is useful and important not only for us, but also for all stakeholders and those natural and legal persons who have submitted, but especially for those who will submit their investment proposals in the future related to our current, unfortunately clumsy environmental legislation. All these proposals and measures that you have just read are really reasonable, adequate. They are actually essential and useful for small, medium and large businesses. Our every legitimate and appropriate measure, which is in the direction of reducing the administrative and regulatory burden for citizens and businesses, is, of course, in line not only with the priorities of the Bulgarian government and its programme, but also with our joint legislative efforts in this direction. As you have said, very appropriate, of course, deserves support and admiration precisely what you are proposing: the introduction of a common, unified procedure on investment proposals, not as so far as three separate No less important, of course, is the real introduction of the notorious for all of us the principle of one-stop shop and the examination of documents by one competent authority. This will really save a lot of administrative energy, human, time and financial resources, as you said. Last but not least, of course, is the reduction and reduction of relevant required documents by investors, by applicants, to the relevant public authority. In this regard, admiration for what you have in mind. I also hope that in public discussions, and in time here in plenary, it will be supported by us. In this way these severe and clumsy procedures will be greatly relieved and this will undoubtedly benefit the investment climate and overall the citizens of Bulgaria. Once again, admire and support!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, a few more words in clarification of what I said. I mentioned in the answer that it was an option. In practice, we have held a series of meetings with all employers' and business organizations and we have concluded that at the earliest stage we need to give the opportunity to respect the existing procedure in the law, or the one I have just proposed, because for a certain type of projects it has proved that the current one is more appropriate, for another is more appropriate. In this way we untied even more hands so that everyone can choose which is the procedure in which it will pass, which will be the one that best encounters his business model, which is the one that will best come across the other procedures that there are in the country, so as to shorten his time, on the one hand, and not trip him along any other line, on the other hand. It was a relatively slow process, we had almost ten months of conversations with employers' organizations, but I think it's very fruitful, because at the end of the day we have a consensus about the fact that these two options fully cover the needs of some or other cases. It's hard to cover everyone at the same time. These are the toughest procedures in environmental legislation. In fact, this may be the essence of environmental legislation in terms of prevention by large industrial enterprises. I think it would be a very fruitful change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Dimov is from the MP Asya Peeva about the landfill in the village of Rouen, municipality of Rouen. Here you are, Mrs. Peeva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, on my visit to my electoral district on 2 April 2018, I visited the village of Rouen, municipality of Rouen, Burgas, where I came across a dump located a kilometer from the village's borders. The landfill reaches the banquet itself on the road to the villages of Dobro Polyana and Rouen. In the photos [[shows photos]] can be seen the sign 1 km village of Rouen, 6 km village of Good Polyana. Visible waste is both recent and long ago. Both domestic and biological and construction waste are identified. Homeless dogs and wild animals carry biological waste, which creates a danger of infection, and wind and rain create conditions for soil, water and air pollution. According to information from local residents during the warm months of the year there is a stench of smell in the area, and the height of piles of junk makes it difficult to see the road. It's obvious what was found. [[Shows picture.]] The village of Rouen is a municipal center and the traffic from and to it is particularly active. It is located on a road that connects the mountain settlements with the highway of Trakia and the Black Sea sites. The presence of a landfill in such close proximity to the settlements threatens the health of the locals and creates prerequisites for environmental problems, undermines our country's image of passing foreign tourists. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: is the landfill located near the village of Rouen, municipality of Rouen, Burgas, and have measures been taken to transport and dump the waste at another regulated landfill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Peeva! The municipal waste depot of Rouen, located near the village of Rouen, at the foot of the Balkan Mountains, was in operation from 1995 to 2015. Until 2000 non-hazardous waste was taken for disposal only from the village of Rouen and then from the territory of the whole municipality. The depot does not meet the regulatory requirements and therefore after the introduction into operation of the regional depot of Bratovo-West in July 2015 the waste from the territory of the municipality was redirected to the disposal facility designated for the treatment of municipal waste of the municipalities of Kameno, Burgas, Aytos, Carnobat, Nessebar, Pomorie, Rouen, Sredets and Sungurlare. After the operation has ceased, the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection Burgas prescribes to the owner of the municipality of Rouen depot to start actions on the closure of the depot. On 25 October 2017, as a result of heavy rains, the regional depot of Bratovo was decommissioned and the disposal of waste was suspended. By Decision No 660 of the Council of Ministers of 31 October 2017, due to the inability to use the regional system for the region of Burgas, temporary sites for the generated waste from municipalities are set up. RIOS "Burgas" informs the mayors of the municipalities of the places where waste is redirected by 30 November 2017. For the municipality of Rouen is designated the site on the territory of the Depot Carnobat. On 13 March 2018, experts from RIOS Burgas carried out a planned check on the state of Rouen depot, which found that there are new quantities of waste in the depot. Those you're probably finding out too. These quantities were deposited in the first days of the accident at the regional depot, after which the transport of the waste to a temporary site in Karnobat began. A deadline of 20 April 2018 has been prescribed for waste from the period of the accident to be transported to the depot of Bratovo and to clean adjacent areas of different light fractions. By letter dated 16 April 2018, the municipality of Rouen informed RIOS that the prescriptions were fulfilled, a reference was also sent for the quantities of waste and film taken by the regional landfill. All waste disposed of during the period 25 October 2017 to 6 November 2017 has been removed from the field. The remaining waste deposited during the period of exploitation of the depot from 1995 to 2015 is on the ground. They are intended to be treated in a place for which a reclamation project has been developed. By letter dated 7 April 2017, RIOS "Burgas" expressed a positive opinion on the project. The project has not yet been submitted to the environmental management company or to the Ministry of Environment and Water for Coordination. In conclusion, RIOS "Burgas" will continue to carry out strict control of the state of Rouen depot, including the development of the project in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Peeva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. I am pleased that the Ministry has taken the necessary measures to remedy this serious problem. I also thank the citizens for the active position of citizens and environmental, so that this problem is finally resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u91	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? There's not gonna be a duvet. The next question to Minister Dimov is from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Alexander Matsurev, Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev on the quality of the air in Blagoevgrad region. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our question is about the quality of the atmospheric air in Blagoevgrad region. We know that the assessment of the quality of the air in the country is carried out through the National Control System, which controls the concentrations of basic indicators on a daily basis. The Ministry assists local authorities in developing municipal programmes to reduce emissions of harmful substances for settlements where excesses are recorded for established norms and controls their implementation. In this regard, the question to you is: what policies and measures are you taking to improve air quality at national level? In particular, what policies and measures are provided for in Blagoevgrad district? Which municipalities have air quality measuring devices installed in them? At what stage is the implementation of the activities under the procedure for development or update of municipal programs under art. 27 of the Atmospheric Air Cleansing Act, to reduce the levels of pollutants and to reach established standards on ambient air quality for municipalities with abnormal levels of pollutants such as fine particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and others? And planning measures adequate to local conditions to improve the quality of atmospheric air, leading to certain standards of its quality? What measures can mayors take, what programs can municipalities apply to include this priority of the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u93	Thank you, dear Matsurev. Here you are, Minister Dimov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, Mr. Matsurev, Mr. Apostolov, Mr. Dinev, for the control and quality of the air in the municipality of Blagoevgrad there is an automatic measuring station which is part of the National Air Quality Control System. Its controlled pollutants are fine particulate matter, polyaromatic hydrocarbons, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, benzene, xylene, toluene and ozone. According to the results, the monitoring standards have been compromised by particulate matter and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Overnormal particulate pollution is the main problem to be solved. Much of the municipalities plan and implement measures, but they cannot be assessed as sufficiently effective, so action is also needed at national level. This is the reason why the Ministry of Environment and Water is taking action at national level as regards both sectors with the greatest contribution to pollution. The measures we are working on aim to assist the municipal authorities in fulfilling their obligations to achieve the required air quality and they are as follows: Firstly, the development of a national programme for air quality, the implementation of which is in addition to the measures implemented by the municipal authorities. With regard to domestic heating, legislative changes are currently being made through the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness to introduce requirements for the sulphur and ash content of solid fuels - coal and briquettes - which are sold on the domestic heating market. With regard to the transport sector, measures are identified and taken to introduce strong controls on vehicles in order to reduce emissions of harmful substances, as well as to strengthen the control of annual technical examinations. Within the framework of the procedure the development and update of municipal air quality programmes is implemented 11 contracts with grants under the Operational Programme "Environment" worth 1.511 million. BGN, as the municipality of Blagoevgrad is one of the beneficiaries and is currently updating its municipal program. The Treaties shall also be implemented at the moment and should be concluded in the third-quarter quarter of 2018, as set out in the deadlines. Financial resources are also provided through the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" for the implementation of specific measures to reduce pollution, and the funds are intended to focus mainly on pollution from domestic heating and to a lesser extent to municipal transport. The focus of domestic heating measures is on the replacement of stationary solid fuel household appliances. In addition to the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "Europe 2020" opportunities for financing activities that contribute to improving the quality for heating and air there are Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020, National Programme for Energy Efficiency, National Trust Ecofund. Another possible programme is the LIFE Programme, which is a financial instrument of the European Union supporting projects in the field of environment, nature and climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u95	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Matsurev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer we have received. I will pass on to the citizens of the municipalities your personal commitment and the government's commitment to improving the quality of the air and the solution to this problem. I sincerely hope that the local authorities will take advantage of the opportunity given to them, adequately and in due time, to participate in this process. Once again, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u97	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Would you like a duplicate, dear Minister? No. Allow me to thank Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. We continue with parliamentary control: questions and questions to Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski about the policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding the security of the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On March 20, 2018, more than 40 passengers travelling from Paris entered the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria via Sofia Airport. Then we were all perplexed, wondering how it was possible in a European state.. through an airport which everyone ensured meets all the security requirements, by the way, we also asked the Minister of Transport: whether the security of Sofia airport in connection with the European Presidency was guaranteed, and it was possible for a whole flight or part of the passengers to enter unverified and undisquieted by anyone, including the employees of the Border Police. After a few days another signal appears, information that there have been again passed such passengers will you tell if this is true as there was then a rebuttal of the information. But it is a fact that the Bulgarian border is not probably guarded by the standards of a European state... a member of the European Union. In this regard is also our question with colleague Ivan Ivanov to you about the policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding the security of the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please respond to us: what is the policy of the Ministry of Interior, in particular the activities of the Directorate-General for Border Police, regarding the security of the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, especially in the context of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of Europe? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u99	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Svilenski! For protection of the state border and limitation of the migration pressure to the Republic of Bulgaria, countering illegal migration and illegal transfer of persons across the borders of the country, the Ministry of Interior, together with other state structures and the international agency "Frontex" implements the following complex measures: First, regular conduct of joint specialized police operations with the participation of forces and funds of the Directorate-General of Border Police and other structures of the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, joint security events along the border with the Republic of Turkey continue and logistical support is provided by the Ministry of Defence. You know, there have been changes in legislation. Thirdly, at national level, the necessary organisation has been established and concrete measures have been taken to respond to threats and crisis situations resulting from increased migration pressure from the Republic of Turkey mainly to the Republic of Bulgaria. To counter the migration pressure along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, the integrated surveillance system is used, as well as the temporary obstruction facility, which is completed to a major extent, including the length of the Tundzha, Deliyska and Rezovska rivers, total of 236 km. With regard to the measures applied at the Bulgarian-Serb border, together with other departments, local specialized police operations are regularly planned and conducted. In addition, an automated surveillance system has been built. In order to increase the effectiveness of border controls applied at the border with the Hellenic Republic at national level, the necessary organisation has been established with specific measures to improve border surveillance. In order to carry out effective border surveillance of the Black Sea, an integrated maritime border surveillance system is operational, which includes a coastal marine component. In relation to the European Presidency, as you specifically ask, in the direction of activity, the security of other regional police officers are assigned to the Border Police Department "Sofia," four of the drivers of specialized service dogs for search, detection, designation of explosives, weapons and ammunition and two of the official cars. The entrances to the terminal buildings of Sofia airport are divided temporary checkpoints for checks of road vehicles and persons, which include the employees of the Border Police Department.. Sofia, and the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Next, the available mobile surveillance systems, as well as helicopters of the Border Police Directorate-General, are actively used in the security activities. In connection with the established additional state, there are still 600 state figures in relation to the European Presidency, working in the labour force of the position of the Security Officer and the Border Control Officer. Next, in the implementation of the annual programme, the Directorate-General for Border Police (DG) signed a contract for the delivery of new patrol specialized cars with normal and increased passability. Next, cooperation with neighbouring countries is an important part, as I mentioned above. For the implementation of the concept of integrated border management Bulgaria has signed agreements to prevent border incidents at the common borders, on the basis of which are created and operate mixed central, sectoral and sectional border committees. On the basis of signed agreements, Bulgaria applies forms of joint border patrol with Romania, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Another form of interaction is the established and active contact points for police and customs co-operation along the borders with Romania, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece and Turkey. In recent years, the Directorate-General for Border Police has urged on improving border checks by technical means, increasing their effectiveness and implementing a more flexible approach to inspection. As a result of the implementation of the complex of measures, which I have so far listed, the migration pressure towards Bulgaria is limited in 2017, with a total of 8044 attempts of third-country nationals to cross the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, everywhere, at all borders, including air, which is a reduction of 81% compared to the same period of 2016. The 42,466 were then. Of these, 743 persons were detained by the Bulgarian border authorities in an attempt to enter the country illegally, 1032 persons were detained by the neighbouring border authorities and 6269 individuals separately returned to the interior of neighbouring countries after being established by Bulgarian patrols and posts at our joint border. You are right about one case - March 20th, about which you mentioned details, 42 people have passed the checks at their airport in France, but here our people miss them because there are no people in the relevant places where they should have been six people plus two people who are watching them. However, the second case, which you mentioned, a week or two later, turned out to be false news. We downloaded the cameras, got information from one of the TV stations on TV. Turns out this gentleman just fooled everyone, as the cameras can see it passing, checking it all down, and it's documented. I think we even posted it somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u101	Thank you, Minister Radev. Two supplementary questions will be asked by Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u102	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We have listened carefully to your response. This is statistics that you give us on the basis of information given to you, most likely from the Border Police Directorate General. But we have not yet received an adequate answer about how these over 40 persons were allowed to enter without checking the airport in Sofia, and in a situation where the country is very actively negotiating and is trying to convince its Western partners, who are creating obstacles for us to entry into Schengen. I hope the border police officers didn't then decide that we had entered Schengen in advance and that's why they let the passengers go. However, we have doubts as to whether this information you give us is exactly the same and whether the Ministry's employees are doing their job adequately. What do I mean? A reference made by your ministry to April 15th on entry were detained 171 persons, at the exit. 90, and inside the country This means that over 300 people have entered the country, 90 of them are trying to get out. One of my questions is: how do you give your assessment of this thing? Where did these people get in, how did they get in, who let them in to capture them either inside the country or at the exit? And my second question is: what is your assessment? The penalties you imposed for the private case Sofia airport, are they adequate for the whole system and do you have to stop there? Should you not do a more serious check in general for the overall functioning of the security of the Bulgarian borders, provided that this case can be used and a very serious stain on the reputation of our Bulgarian border authorities than how they guard the external borders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u103	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Svilenski! I have answered you specifically to the question that you have asked, and it is as follows: please answer us what is the policy of the Ministry of Interior, in particular the activities of the Directorate-General for Border Police, regarding the security of the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, especially in the context of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union? And I have answered you in full, point by point, what are the measures and what we have done, including in relation to the Presidency. I can't accept that the answer isn't correct. To the other two questions that you asked and which I wrote down, you doubt whether the information is such a question, that is the information. Exactly what I told you, that's what we did. However, the second question you are asking, I will also allow myself to answer the third question, although I need two: are punishments adequate? I would like to remind you that I announced at the beginning the check that should be, or the disciplinary proceedings that I ordered, to those who have broken the rules here you are absolutely right, because you have raised a question about the 42 that have been missed, there is disciplinary proceedings. The sixteenth was the time limit we asked, if we could extend it to the 27th due to circumstances that I do not want to list now, there were holidays. I'm having second thoughts, but I've cleared the deadline is 27th. Then you will hear what punishments will be and we will decide with you whether they will be adequate. But you also said something else: Is that the danger still not only here, but also along the other borders? Fair question. I asked the same question: how could you miss? There will be no time to read all of it here, if you want it, I'll give it to you what we've caught at Sofia airport. One of them's missing. I'm also interested in you, as opposition mostly, always listening carefully, weak points. The others don't need to brag. But in the reference, we say what we have caught there, how many of these have passed, they have tried and we have kept them, for which we have heard a good word from our partners. Many times I have said that "Frontex " and other organizations praise us for guarding other borders. So, answering the question: what are we doing with the other borders, we have no problems, including at the airport. At Sofia airport we caught, unlike other countries in the European Union, at an air border. Not to mention them, they're written in the reference. Again, I'll give it to you. But still, it happened, so I took a note there. We'll see what the punishments are gonna be. We immediately switched with other people from Burgas and Varna, where for now at least our assessments, the professional leadership, are that they are doing much better. We've changed that manual, there's been some remarks before. My question was: where did you look before, when there were weaknesses, and why didn't you do what was necessary not to happen to those 42, and so on? That's my answer. I know you asked me a question, and you're sure as hell not happy with the answer. I hope you don't go political. There's no way you're satisfied. I'm not happy with what happened. Thank you for focusing again on the protection of borders. I fully agree with you "You say: European Union, Presidency, everyone praises us. We now have to show that we're good and that's what happens. It really hurt me and everyone else who's involved, of course, and the opposition. That's how I understand it. I'm looking for opportunities to overcome weaknesses. We will see what punishments will be and you will be satisfied with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Let's hear the attitude of fellow Members asking if they are satisfied or not. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u106	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! From your answer, as you said, to be satisfied, but ultimately we share your view that the results are not satisfied. What you have set out is indeed consistent with the findings that we have made. Here before you was the Minister for the European Presidency Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. One of the questions we asked her was: what is happening and what are we doing in the direction of Bulgaria's accession to Schengen? She felt pretty uncomfortable because whatever we were doing, our Western partners obviously didn't trust us enough. I personally heard from members of the Bundestag here, who had come to Bulgaria, that this will not happen anytime soon they simply do not believe us. The purpose of such issues is the executive power to take the necessary measures so that we can gain this trust in some way and these people say: yes, you are indeed the partner of the European Union, who can and properly guard the Bulgarian borders. However, I have not been able to understand how these 318 people entered the country, who accessed them, I am talking about those on your reference, the illegals who enter through the green border, how they were admitted. I guess there's a bunch of others that aren't even registered. In the reference it is noted that 38 have left the hostels of the State Agency for Refugees. Where are these people right now? What are they doing? What's the guarantee that in a week or two, in a month, people won't come in through the airport or anywhere else without being checked out? Such small pebbles hinder the car, Mr. Minister. What you need to do is to make the necessary arrangements for the Directorate-General to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u107	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u108	If you have to cut meat there so that this unpleasant statistic no longer exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next question is asked by the MPs Plamen Nunev, Manoil Manev, Plamen Tachev and Konstantin Popov regarding the absorption of European funds to combat illegal migration and security at the state border. Please, General Popov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u110	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! This issue appears in some natural way as a continuation of the previous topic and it is: at what stage of the procedure were the funds so allocated by the Council of the European Union to Bulgaria to combat illegal migration and security at the border? As a continuation: what are the priorities of the Ministry of Interior for the spending of these funds and, after all, what is the effect that has been achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u111	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! I would've thought the same thing if you weren't one of my ruling colleagues, and they from the opposition, that you had an agreement, but obviously that question excites everyone, and that's why you're asking, and I'm here to answer. In comparison, with the increased migration pressure, the European Union has provided support to the Republic of Bulgaria to tackle more precisely. These funds amount to 160 million. EUR under the Emergency Assistance Facility under two funds: one of them is said to be Homeland Security, the other is an asylum fund, migration and integration. Under the Internal Security Fund, the activities envisaged are aimed at upgrading existing information technologies related to external border control, vehicle delivery, provision of border surveillance equipment, recruitment of an additional number of police and border police officers including, improving the conditions for detention of third-country nationals in the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior, as well as costs of seconded personnel from the Ministry of Defence to carry out tasks during border service, you know the changes in the Law and they are there at the moment. At the beginning of April 2018, 148 contracts totaling 75 million were concluded as a result of public procurement. 588 thousand. 218 euros without VAT, which represents about 60% of the total value of the projects so far, of which 53 million have been paid out. 415 thousand. 720 euros or over 40%. As a result, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. I am rounding up euros without VAT, which is about 18% of the total value of the project, i.e. we have repeatedly increased pressure and started to successfully absorb these funds. Under the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the planned activities for current expenditure of the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees are improving the reception conditions, we are obliged by series of international agreements, accommodation and registration of third-country nationals, consultation with third-country asylum seekers, voluntary return of third-country nationals back to Afghanistan at most, and reintegration. As of early April 2018, as a result of the public procurements, 44 contracts totaling 18, nearly 19 million were concluded. I am rounding, which accounts for approximately 55% of the total value of this fund, of which more than 36% has been paid out. In comparison, at the end of 2017, around 4% again, around 5% of contracts were concluded, and less than 8% were paid out by these contracts. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 289 thousand. 655 euros or a total of about 60% of all already 160 million, of which 65 million were paid out. 603 thousand. 607 euros or approximately 40% paid out. I see I'm running out of time. Then I'll fill in the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, General Popov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Minister! Obviously, you could not complete your answer, because what really remained as part of the question is, what are the priorities from now on for the use of other funds, what is the most effective and what is the effect of these investments that are under the Council of the European Union's plan?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u115	Thank you, General Popov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, to complete the answer, to complete it. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! In three minutes, that's it. Now let me add to this 160 million you're right: what is the effect? Three hundred and twenty million BGN are a very large amount of solidarity given to Bulgaria for doing well, for then they saw and actually extended us by one year of absorption to November this year was up to last year. This year, I reported the exact numbers, 60%, I hope to pass 80, which will allow us contracts that will not end this year, to finish them afterwards. What, though, do we buy with them? I mentioned the dry numbers and part of what we agreed on, but what's the effect? We've built the fence, it's 235 kilometers, 30 miles before that, 2014 and then our government when it came, did the other 205, a total of 235, a total of 236 kilometers. This is the physical fence or the engineering facility. On top of it now we have to adorn it, or next to it, of course, in special places, put cameras, thermos. That's what we do with that money. We buy equipment. You specifically know very well, except that the army was helping us, we have a road there, a three-mile road, unlike those 30 kilometers, and we've done that too. And that's where cars are moving, ours. Pretty soon we accepted 198 of these cars, the brand didn't matter the Japanese that went right there, again with that money. I mentioned, we're posting people we train that we use there. The main money, however, will go to upgrade with such intelligent systems, so to speak, which will be added, which are agreed on much of them to come. There's a contract going through now, I think, in second instance, to go through there, and if they say okay, it's over 34 million, it's for exactly the kind of systems that we're going to add them to. This is the effect that we see them, and good relationships "diplomacy," we tell the Tripartite Centre, colleagues from Turkey, and they collect them. They don't come in at all. The question that my opposition colleagues have asked me: what are those doing there, how many people were inside us asking the same question. We even let them in to catch the sewers, but there won't be any more, and we see everything, we stop. For now, the agreement or statement between Bulgaria and Turkey is working and they are taking them back. The big problem is going to the Greek border because they are crossing the Turkish-Greek border and are trying to get in with us or through Macedonia there. So the effect, if I stop at it again, is this. For now, not only are we, these are assessments of colleagues from Frontex there are Germans, Dutch, Poles, I have seen ones at least when I go to check. They also observe with us and give their advice, participate and tell us: "Yes, the effect is such, but it is better not be a living force, including from the army, however good they are. " - I am looking at you because you are from there. They'd better be systems that are objective, lasers and whatever. So we expect the effect from this. I can also tell you how many times the pressure has dropped. Only the first physical fence built, I remember that the percentages were seven times, not as a percentage, but seven times the pressure had decreased only from those 30 kilometers in the most sensitive places. Imagine the entire facility built and built with that 60 million. Euros! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u117	Allow me to thank the Interior Minister Mr. Valentin Radev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. The first question is asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the low percentage of workers who visit and pass training to improve their qualifications. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Minister, most of the Bulgarians do not like and do not want to be educated. This is something that, unfortunately, I do not see how it can change, since in no way does the state stimulate and encourage the opposite! We live with the understanding that by acquiring some education and qualification, it is for the rest of our lives or the least until the end of our careers, but that is not the case in the modern world. The technological progress of the automation, the digitalization of productions, the mass penetration of information and communication technologies into all business activities leads to a change of labour requirements. At the same time, the workforce cannot meet the change in its requirements. I will quote to you a study of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, you may know this: Bulgaria ranks in one of the last places in the European Union according to the indicator of lifelong learning. Only 2% of the population between 25 years of age has participated in various forms of training. In this respect, Romania alone has lower indicators of 1.3% and close to our levels are Slovakia by 3% and Serbia by 2.9%. Hungary is showing very high progress. The number of participants in training at the same age limit has increased more than twice, currently being 7.1. At this rate, the target indicator of the European Union 2020 is 15% and it seems virtually untouchable. And one more thing from the same study: Only about 30% of enterprises in Bulgaria provide continuing vocational training at 85% EU average. Only 5.3 of unemployed persons aged 25 years and 64 years in Bulgaria participate in different forms of training, while this indicator is significantly higher for those employed. In my question to you, I have also quoted Eurostat data, according to which an average of 33% of the working Europeans attended training to improve their qualifications and only 11% in Bulgaria. This gives us 26th place from 28 countries, following us are Romania and Greece, as I told you, and far before us are the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland, each second working has passed a course to increase their knowledge and skills. I can go on with the facts further, but I'll ask you questions, they're shorts. What are the reasons for this lag in the qualification of the Bulgarians and what will be the reaction on your part and on the part of the state of this lag? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u120	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! Increasing the quality of the workforce is among the priorities in labour market policy. The main fields of activity shall be determined on the basis of an analysis of statistical data on results of studies carried out and on estimates of labour demand and supply. The data on the participation of persons employed in training that you refer to in your question, which you have just quoted, are from the study "Employment and Living Conditions Statistics" and in 2016 included an additional module "Access to services" with issues related to child care, formal education and lifelong learning, as well as health care issues. The data were collected by conducting an interview with sampled household members aged 16 years or older, who had identified themselves as employed. In determining the employment status of persons, the definitions of the International Labour Organisation are not used. I'm making these details because it's a one-time study and it's not the most representative one. In developing the policy for increasing the quality of the labour force, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy uses the results of regular implementation and with a greater scope specialized research for the participation of employees in different forms of lifelong learning, it is about formal education and training, informal or informational, i.e. independent training, such as the monitoring of continuing vocational training and the study of adult education and training. The results of the two studies show that a higher percentage of the working Bulgarians participate in trainings. For example, according to the result of the study of adult education and training conducted in 2016, 33.5% of employed persons participated in training during the previous 12 months. Analysis of the data shows that 11.5% of the population aged 25-64 failed to participate in the desired training. As main reasons, obstacles point out: lack of free time, too high a price for the educational program and lack of proper training. The participation of workers in training is a shared responsibility of employers, persons and the state. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy encourages the participation of employees by financing training costs by providing vocational guidance services, developing sectoral competence models and others. The resources of the Operational Programme are used to finance the training of employed people. In the framework of operations under the Operational Programme for the current programming period, funds of 140 million are provided. lv. for vocational training and training in key competences of more than 89 thousand persons employed, including through the provision of training vouchers. Specific trainings to acquire knowledge and skills for work in a specific workplace are also financed. At the end of this year, it is planned to launch a new operation with the name of the "Cumulation" with a budget of 30 million. BGN, which will provide opportunities to increase the qualification to at least 5500 employed, unemployed and inactive persons. As of 11 April this year, 21 611 employees were involved in training funded by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and in the selection of training the workers can use the professional guidance services provided free of charge by the Employment Bureau. As my time is up, in conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to pursue a consistent policy to provide a quality workforce for business and perspectives for people's professional development through training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u121	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I pretty much expected that answer from you. I know that it is among the priorities of the government, and I can even quote what you have written in the Programme: achieving a better correlation between demand and supply of the workforce and limiting staff to qualified employment. I would like to hear from you in the line, if you make a line, of course, whether, after these measures that you have set them all up and launch programs and projects, we will move somewhere further into Europe's ladder. Will we in any way be able to get this workforce to qualify so that there can be active participation in the labour market and not to sit and wait at the labour desks? All major employers' organisations agree that the shortage of human resources is becoming an increasing brake for the development of the economy. I think that the government should give a comprehensive vision and concept of how this problem will solve it, including in this vision to participate and qualification. You have now started to solve this problem that the Bulgarian does not want to qualify and increase his qualifications, instead of taking measures to overcome the crisis with the low and in most cases inadequate qualifications, we have started to solve the issue of importing labour from abroad by making any changes to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Maybe. I don't criticize that. All countries are somehow solving their issue by accepting highly qualified labour. Although we didn't do it right, we did it for any, including low-qualified labour, and not with the condition to put in such a hand, but simply to suppress the cost of labor in Bulgaria, but these are my thoughts and is another issue, very long. I think that the government should do a comprehensive analysis, and you, in particular, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of this problem and come up with some concrete solutions on this, because otherwise we will be chattering at the end of Europe, and the future and digitalization of labour will not wait for us to get stuck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u123	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We've heard his reasoning. Here you are for the coat, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! I am convinced that the operations and measures that apply to increase the qualification of the workforce in Bulgaria will lead to better positioning of our country in this ranking, in which we are really not in the top places. But I do not think that these different instruments that you mentioned to solve the problem of staff deficit in our market should be opposed. On the contrary, they must complement and interact in order for their application to be the best. Undoubtedly, it is a priority and will continue to be an increase in lifelong learning. I would like to say that during the informal meeting of the Council of Ministers on Employment and Social Affairs at the beginning of the week here in Sofia, one of the topics for discussion was precisely to improve the qualification of training, lifelong learning, which actually helps to maintain and change the qualification of the workforce, in line with the realities, that is to say, with the large number of transitions that each already European makes within his work career from different positions, different regulations, different professions. All this implies training, lifelong learning, and in this direction our efforts are directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the popular ideas Rumen Genov and Dimitar Alexandrov on the development and implementation of the employment programmes. Which of our colleagues will ask the question? Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The Employment Promotion Act provides for the implementation of a regional employment programme for each administrative area based on proposals from regional and municipal administrations. Under the regulatory requirements, the regional programme must comply with the objectives of the state employment policy and contribute to the implementation of the national priorities set out in strategic documents and the National Employment Action Plan in 2018. It is also necessary that the activities in the programme are also in line with the regional priorities. It is known to everyone that unemployment in Bulgaria has been record low for the past nine years. The fact is that the regions in the country also have their specifics, both in the structure of their workforce and in the needs of the local business from a workforce. Employment programmes in this sense are an effective tool of the active labour market policy, with which, on the one hand, activities of local importance are implemented and, on the other hand, the employment of unemployed persons from vulnerable groups facing the risk of poverty and social exclusion is ensured. In this regard, my question to you is: how are local authorities involved in the development and implementation of these programmes, which take into account the specifics of local labour markets?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u127	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u128	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov, Mr. Alexandrov! The development of the regional approach to the development and implementation of employment programmes is an important priority of active labour market policy. Regional employment programmes are a specific tool to ensure employment of unemployed persons from unequal labour market groups in activities of local importance. Since the changes in the Employment Promotion Act in 2016, local authorities' powers have increased with regard to regional programmes. The allocation of funds shall be made by districts on the basis of the criteria of the average annual unemployment rate and the average annual number of registered unemployed persons in the relevant area in the previous year and shall be included in the National Employment Action Plan. The implementation of a regional programme, as you said, is envisaged for each administrative area based on a proposal from regional and municipal administrations. In order to create sustainable employment in the regions, project proposals can be developed jointly with social partners and other legal entities. It is an important requirement that regional employment programmes take into account the priorities of the regional development strategy, regional and municipal development plans. The district governor has set up a committee to assess the project proposals of the municipalities. The funds that a municipality will receive depend on the unemployment rate and the number of unemployed, thus guaranteeing funds for smaller municipalities as well. Each municipality decides what activities should be carried out, whether the employment is full-time or part-time, what months to work and how to organize the work. For example, in 2017 activities such as: maintenance and conservation of schools and kindergartens, maintenance of roads, maintenance and preservation of cultural monuments, maintenance and cleaning of parks and green areas, gardens, interblock spaces, sanding and snow cleaning of streets, environmental activities, activities in pension clubs and others were carried out. $6 million. 609 thousand. BGN 795. 1719 unemployed persons were employed in 2017. In 2018, 1 million were provided for regional programmes. Three hundred and BGN 205. More than 2017 or a total of 7 million 920,000. lv. for employment of an average of around 2000 unemployed persons over a period of not less than six months. The most funds will receive the districts of Vratsa, Blagoevgrad, Vidin and Pleven. By the end of April, we expect the proposals of the regional employment committees to start implementing regional programmes by June at the latest. To conclude, I would like to stress that reducing labour market imbalances by region is a priority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and for its implementation we are seeking to delegate more and more rights to local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u129	Thank you, dear Minister. For your reply, Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u130	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the comprehensive response and we very much hope that all this financial resource, which is not really small, will be implemented so that useful activities can be done for our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u131	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You will not take this right. We continue with a question from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Ralitsa Dobreva on the implementation of the Programme "Work" in 2018. Here you are, dear Mrs. Dobreva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u132	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The pilot programme for training and employment is launched on 1 September 2017 in 14 municipalities of the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana with funding from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The realization of the program, which covered municipalities with the highest unemployment rate in Northwestern Bulgaria, proved successful and gave good results. The applications for this year are that the Work Programme will have a continuation that its scope will be extended, and the announced plans provide that it will already have a national scope. This is delightful because the interest in it is great and more municipalities will be able to take advantage of the opportunity provided to overcome regional disproportions on the labour market, as you said in your previous speech, and to increase the employment and work skills of unemployed people. In this regard, my question to you is: how many municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which can use the funds of the Programme, provided by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and how many people will it cover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u133	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dobreva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Dobreva! Integration of unemployed and inactive persons permanently on the labour market is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In response to this challenge in the beginning of 2018 under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" the implementation of the Workshop procedure was launched, which, as you mentioned, builds on the National Program implemented in 2017 on the territory of 14 municipalities in Northwestern Bulgaria with the highest level of unemployment. The National Programme was welcomed with great interest by the municipalities, with its support provided trainings and employment for unemployed persons in the territory of these municipalities and a total of 1083 jobs were opened, with the funding last year from September to the end, was provided by the budget. In the results of the observed beneficial effects of the national measure and the public response, given the resolution of social problems under the Operational Programme, from the beginning of 2018, additional European financing under the Operational Programme has been provided at an amount of 80 million. BGN, distributed between 193 municipalities in the country with an unemployment rate above the national average. The defined budget allows for covering and setting up work for more than 9635 unemployed and inactive persons. Under the procedure, support to long-term unemployed persons is given priority in order to overcome obstacles and create prerequisites for their inclusion in employment. I would point out that, along with employment, funds are also provided for training, such as the list of municipalities and the allocation of job vacancies under the Project "Working under the Operational Programme" "Human Resources Development" is published on the website of the Employment Agency, which is responsible for the implementation of its activities. In the process of drawing up and signing are contracts with employers from the public sector. For applications for participation from the real sector for which a 40% quota has been reserved, an eligibility assessment from the Cooperation Councils to the relevant Employment Bureau is currently being carried out, and by the end of April a register of approved, respectively, non-approved requests on the website of the Employment Agency is to be published. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Dobreva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Minister, your answer was comprehensive. I'm glad that something that's useful and effective, you keep building on it. I am convinced that all municipalities will take advantage of the opportunity given, as this will lead to an increase in the employment and labour skills of unemployed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Dobreva. You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back. Let me thank the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov. The first question is from the MP Kolyo Milev about problems in restoring the sports hall in military formation 22220. Here you are, General Milev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u138	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, in 2009 a contract was signed between the Ministry of Defence and a construction company to build a new sports hall in the area of military formation 22220 in the town of Sliven at the place of existing one. Before the demolition of the old sports hall was completed, the construction was stopped, the site was frozen and no measures have been taken since 2009 to build the new gym. My question to you is: what are the reasons for stopping the construction of the sports hall in 2009? What measures will the Ministry of Defence take to build a sports hall, as this is a Centre for training specialists for the Land Forces and in this formation the only tankers for the Bulgarian Army are prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. General. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u140	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Milev, on 9 October 2008 following a procedure under the Public Works Executive Agency between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and "Bild Engineering VVR" Ltd. was signed Framework Agreement No 145 of 6 August 2008. Its conclusion was in the implementation of a social strategy of the Ministry for Social Policy Development in the Bulgarian Army, and in particular the renovation of the sports and material base of the existing divisions and the construction of contemporary sports centers towards them. The sports centers, built in 2009 in the units of the Bulgarian Army, including what you are asking the question: Sports center in the unit 22220 "the town of Sliven," were in the area of responsibility of the Executive Agency "Social activities" of the Ministry of Defence. As a secondary authorising officer with budgetary resources to the Minister of Defence, the Social Activities Executive Agency has carried out an independent award and payment of its sites. On a proposal from the Agency and approved by the Minister of Defence on 29 April 2009, a single name list of construction and construction sites was included as a new site of the Modulin Sports Centre.... the town of Sliven, worth 800 thousand. lv. for a period of implementation the fourth quarter of 2009. Subsequently, on a proposal from the Executive Agency, an adjustment of the list with which the site has dropped out has been made. By letter dated 15 March 2010, the Military District Prosecutor's Office In the reasons of the acquittal sentence No 159/2011 in a general criminal case under the description of the Sofia Military Court, it is stated that a written contract for the construction of the site was not concluded, even though it was included in the single name list of construction and construction sites in 2009. In view of the short deadlines for execution by the contractor company, action has been taken in advance to ensure access to workers. As you rightly said, the windows have been removed and the destruction of existing buildings has begun. These preparatory activities lasted until 26 June 2009. Meanwhile, at the Director's Council of the Executive Agency, the Executive Director of the Ministry of Defence has decided to drop the uninitiated sites from the title list of the Ministry of Defence. This decision was made in the execution of an order of the then Minister of Finance Mr. Plamen Oresharski to stop any new payments. On 29 June 2009, the contractor was informed that the financing of the site in Sliven was terminated and a contract would not be signed. The above findings were reproduced in the 2011 acquittal in a criminal case of general nature and so on. Currently, the Modular Sports Centre (Modular Sports Centre) in Military Formation 22220 in the town of Sliven is in the management of Land Forces, according to their expert opinion that the latter is not provided for funding in order to implement other priority projects. The Sports Hall is therefore not included as an object in the Single Name List of Construction and Construction Services for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Here you are, General Milev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, what you say is true. Too bad about that 800 grand. BGN, for which a sports hall was to be built then, did not complete the object and the reasons for the failure of the contract may not have been clarified. I'm concerned about the fact that land troops don't have the financial means to build such objects independently. However, there is a possibility for the Ministry of Defence to assist the Land Forces to be able to join the title list of the construction of such a sport hall. Now, at the moment, as it is semi-destructed, semi-destructed, before the demolition was used at least as intended in some volume, it is appropriate that this object, in our view, be completed and we will ask you to cooperate with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u143	Thank you. There's not gonna be a duvet. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov about the introduction of voluntary military service. Here you are, dear Mr. Ibryamov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the introduction of voluntary military service. In the last few months, perhaps weeks, the issue of the possible introduction of voluntary military service is increasingly being addressed, such as you, Mr. Minister, are launching different ideas to society about how to implement, which in turn raise quite a question mark. Naturally, we all know and are aware that it is very important to acquire defence capabilities concerning our country. It is very important to pay special attention to our national security, as well as to the state of the Bulgarian Army. Also on your information for months a working group in the Ministry of Defence has been preparing a Law on the introduction of voluntary military service and it would be logical to already have some information about it, which is provoked by your media participations. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the purpose of introducing voluntary military service, and how will this contribute to the acquisition of defence capabilities?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u146	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, my media speeches on the topic are provoked by questions that you have asked me or by questions of journalists, but these statements are not self-sustaining. They are the result of work that is carried out in the Ministry of Defence on the basis of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the Council of Ministers for the period 2017 - 2021. That is to say, this idea is part of the management programme, which I, as Minister of Defence, am obliged to carry out and perform, especially in this part, with the greatest pleasure. Why? And we come to your question: what does it require? There's a lot of reasons for that. First, as you know, it is clearly and categorically stated in the Constitution that the protection of the Fatherland is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen. Since the recruitment service was cancelled in 2008 and the reserve did not prepare enough people who could fulfil this duty to the country, this is one of the arguments. The second argument is that you see and talk constantly that there is a failure in the army of nearly 5,000.. 5600 people both in the officers' corps, sergeants in the sergeant's staff and military staff. This, by the way, is not only a problem of the Republic of Bulgaria. A similar problem with non-completion is found in armies of rich countries that pay much better wages to their servicemen and much better social benefits, including the Federal Republic of Germany and other countries where they have a similar problem. I mean, this is a common problem. Some countries have solved the problem of non-completion and the preparation of the population by returning to military service. Some, such as Turkey, Greece, Denmark, not to list the other member states, have not removed it, but some have returned it to the Nordic countries returning the military service. The debate about whether or not to return the selection service was taking him to the last parliament. The proposal that I and a group of MPs had made was not accepted then, but the government felt that by giving the opportunity to those young Bulgarian citizens I am talking about men and women who are willing to voluntarily receive such military training in the ranks of the army, it is said that a voluntary military service, within a certain period of time to acquire knowledge and skills in order to prepare, then to be assigned to the reserve. Some of them will also gain titles in the sergeant's staff or officers' ranks, according to the education and training they receive. This will decide a part of the incomplete composition of the Bulgarian Army. This is basically the purpose of the event for the development of the Law on R&D. I am convinced that the time will not be far in this very room of the Bulgarian National Assembly we will discuss that law, which will actually solve our problems, and this is about returning the military service. But at this stage, the moods in the Bulgarian Parliament are such that we can only talk about voluntary military service. This is written in the programme of the government and I do, again I say, with great pleasure, because I think it is one of the steps with which we will solve the problems with the incomplete composition of the Bulgarian Army and will implement the definite order of the Bulgarian Constitution. It does not say: the protection of the Fatherland may be the duty of the Bulgarian citizens, and it is written clearly and categorically: the protection of the Fatherland is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen. And if this duty is to be fulfilled, I personally believe that the Bulgarian young men who have to do their duty to their country should be prepared, not sent as smoked meat, or sent unprepared. That's the point. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are many people who wish to voluntarily pass such training. We and the Law intend to give them this opportunity by providing opportunities for those who enter for voluntary service, if what they have learned and done, they like to be able to remain in the personnel service by signing a contract with the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u147	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, dear Mr. Ibryamov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u148	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Be assured, Minister, that Bulgarian citizens, as quoted in the Constitution, will fulfill their civic duty if necessary. These populist statements that you make from the National Assembly's stands border on what you, as a ruling majority, declare every day as followers of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria. Why? Nowhere, in any strategic document for Bulgaria, including in the strategic document of the updated national security strategy, we are talking about voluntary or optional military service, but about voluntary military training of the Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Fatherland. This can also happen in the form of education, after reforming education. Since you have affected the lack of the Bulgarian Army, how do you imagine that this failure will be completed on the basis of this voluntary military service?! There's no way this is gonna work. You are very well aware that this will not happen in this National Assembly, not in the next and not in the next National Assembly. There are many examples, even in neighbouring Serbia, how the introduction of voluntary military service has led to problems with their government and they are wondering how to get out of this situation right now. The claims that for a Bulgarian citizen, a young person who wants to receive such training, will require six to nine months of my respect! Experts can now assure you, and you have such experts in your office that in order for a young person to receive such training, it takes almost two years. Since this is part of your election platform with which you appeared at the elections, this statement from this tribune is populist. And secondly, in the modern world we see what form all military action is taking, if any. In particular, attention should be paid to the new technologies, to the work with the modern new technologies with which the Bulgarian army should be completed. Then we can now talk about the modern defense capabilities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ibryamov, as they say in one of your heart's nearest countries, Nerde Yambol, Nerde Stambul. What is the connection with Euro-Atlantic values and voluntary military service? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u151	You wouldn't understand, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u152	I didn't get it. You speak English well, but I do not understand it because your logic is lost!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u153	You wouldn't understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u154	You can't, because you didn't say anything. You had a previous leader who could talk for hours without saying anything. You apparently, as his good student, learn this practice a lot of talking, but nothing meaningful with content. I thought I made myself clear. There's no point in convincing you of things you won't be convinced of. You're talking about populism. Populism was what you did with the Triple Coalition - DPS, BSP and NDSV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u155	Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u156	In 2008, you canceled the military service. Then the same specialists that you said were in the Ministry of Defense, there are them today, offering not to rush, offering to find a combined approach. You are telling me that Bulgarian citizens were ready to defend their country. I do not deny that they are ready, no matter what their religious and ethnic background is. I'm sure they'll defend their country. The question is, as what kind of smoked meat or as people with some kind of training?! It took two years to train a soldier, perhaps a soldier in the more specialized parts, yes. Get the stats. All over the world, I don't give you the example of wars, although there is the same example, the current example is: a soldier who joined the army, no matter which country, if you want to go to a foreign legion, if you want the U.S. Army, no matter where, his initial military training is from four to six months, then he is believed to be ready to go and carry out a mission, to carry out his service as intended. Four to six months! And if we talk about improving these skills and knowledge, then there is General Milev behind you and he will tell you that two years is not enough, for example, in anti-missile troops. It's good to listen to me when I tell you this, because I'm talking about you and you're talking about it! In certain types of armed forces, such as anti-missile troops, there and two years are not enough to become a good operator in the launch cabin to perform a release. You don't get it. Read a little more, get interested! And don't speculate politically with such questions! The voluntary military service will solve some of the problems of the non-completion. I said it very clearly because these young boys, gaining knowledge and skills during these six or nine months, will carry out the guard service something that is now being performed by the personnel. This will ease the entire military process. There's a lot of other things, but time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u157	Thank you. The following is a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Kolyo Milev concerning the restoration of the roofs of the cinema hall, the guard room and two warehouses in Military Formation 22680 city of Karlovo. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u158	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! I'll allow myself a few sentences outside the subject, but they're directly related to the preservation of our national memory. On today 34 years ago, first Bulgarian Hristo Prodanov climbed Everest on the hardest road without an oxygen mask. For us, what Prodanov did, the feat of the carlover Hristo Prodanov, is an example of the human spirit's pursuit of overcoming obstacles and touching peaks. For 33 years the youngest school in the municipality of Karlovo has been on its way and follows the steps of its patron to the top. School's having a party today. I appeal to all the teachers, students, employees and parents whose destiny is related to the secondary school.................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u159	It was a sort of statement, perhaps on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u160	You can take it that way. It's okay with the coworkers. Like I said, it's about preserving our national memory. And now to the subject of the issue, which is related to the date 18 January. I'll make one clarification. At the time we were with Mr. Minister at the establishment of an initiative committee to celebrate the 170th anniversary of the birth of Hristo Botev. A huge storm broke out in Karlovo. I informed the institutions about this and called for assistance. It turns out that on January 18 in military formation 22680 in Karlovo the roofs of the cinema hall, the guard room and two warehouses were destroyed. The damage has not yet been recovered due to lack of funds. Our question to you is: what are the reasons for delaying the recovery of damage from the storm, are they related to insurance relations, and what measures will you take to solve the problem? Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u161	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Congratulations from us for the children's holiday in Karlovo! Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Nencheva, Mr. Milev! I'm joining your congratulations! Indeed, for those Bulgarians who know our newest Bulgarian history, Hristo Prodanov performed a feat in peace time! I'm glad we're connecting him to Vasil Levski's hometown. One might say that in that peaceful time he was his spirit follower. He conquered a vertex, he stayed there, but it was a feat! I'm joining the greetings you've made! You're right. We talked about this in Karlovo. I also visited the unit. However, the issue is not only about the damage you have described. It is, but the problem is that from the damaged roofs during this storm on 18 January 2018 the water flows and reaches the first floor. These are part of the premises where training is carried out. The servicemen are using them. I don't think the conditions are appropriate for that. You are entitled to insurance relations with the company of Armeec. I'm not going into the details. The necessary actions have been carried out to notify the regional representation of the company "Armeec". Notifications have been received and damages have been filed with the relevant numbers on 22 March 2018. All damage found to the building fund of the military formation have been recorded in the registers of the insurance company and protocols have been drawn up by property persons. In order not to go into the details that are described, I would say that the practice in general in such cases is to obtain amounts within six months. The incident was in January. The papers were filed in March. Since six months is a long time to get the money and to do the repairs, our Legal Directorate has been busy since we returned after that visit, when you and I examined the unit, to try to persuade the insurance company to move forward the administrative procedures faster so we don't wait six months, but to get the money earlier so that the necessary repairs can be done. Thank God it's spring-summer season. He's more suitable. There are no rains, no snows, no room running, but they are also suitable for repair work. I hope that within the next two months we will receive the insurance funds and the necessary repairs will be carried out by the next season, which will again cause damage and create problems in relation to the damage caused by the storm on January 18th this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u163	Thank you. The line is general Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u164	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, it is true that in the army there is such a tradition that later contracts with insurance companies can be concluded, but nature does not wait for us and events happen at all times. I believe the Army will pay for the damage. The question is you, Minister, to assist through the logistics authorities in providing the necessary materials in time so that the commander of the formation can perform the reconstruction activities which will then be restored by the insurance company. I believe this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u165	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u166	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Dear Mrs. Nencheva, Dear Mr. Milev! The commander of the unit and its replacements are people who are energetic. They will cooperate not only purely administratively, but are ready with the available forces to help carry out more quality repairs. I don't doubt that! There will be assistance from the Ministry in obtaining the funds for the implementation of the renovation. Cooperation by the Ministry for the implementation of the necessary repairs will be shown in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-20.u167	This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. Allow me to thank the Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister for his participation in parliamentary control today. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be on 25 April 2018 at 9.00. Thank you all for your patience and participation! [[PHONE RINGING]]
