ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Welcome, everyone! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, let us congratulate our fellow Muslims on their big holiday Kurban Bayram, wish them much health, peace and prosperity. Together, let us continue to be the example of tolerance, understanding, mutual respect for the welfare and prosperity of our country. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Prime Minister, Ministers! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB party, we congratulate the most warmly Bulgarian Muslims on the celebration of Kurban Bayram. We wish everyone much health, happiness and prosperity! Kurban Bayram is among the most personal and family holidays for Muslims, and every believer should show respect for the elderly, ask for forgiveness and move on. In these sacred days for Muslims, we again have reason to recall that holidays are a time of joy and light, that they unite us, seeking spiritual understanding. We believe that every Bulgarian Muslim will welcome Kurban Bayram with dignity and optimism, opening his heart to his neighbor, young and old to lend their hand in the name of hope. May good govern our works so that we can build our future together in peace and harmony! The tradition dictates that at this sacred feast we be humble and equally generous to people. We wish you health, success, and to preserve the spirit of understanding and tolerance, preserving mercy and human virtues. Let the holiday make us even better and more responsible, that mutual respect between us grow and work together for our common future.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! I would like, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to join in congratulating our Muslim brothers. I also join the wishes that GERB made, and we very much want these wishes and these good words, said by GERB, to be dressed in cases, in real political affairs of the political position that we are on. Because our parliamentary group doesn't have that feeling, and I have to say it. But let us not spoil the feast, let us wish them to be truly safe! And to you, Madam President! However, if we are so sincere to our colleagues and friends, perhaps it was good to take into account this meeting at least two days later. You could have scheduled it within seven days to respect those of our fellow Members who wanted to attend this meeting. It is the same as for them to schedule an extraordinary meeting at Christmas if the President of the Parliament is a Muslim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Just so you know, since the subject is of broad public importance, I preferred to discuss it quickly in the Chamber, I adopted such a decision the day after the submission of this meeting. Once again, I congratulate the Bulgarian Muslims and colleagues from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, we congratulate the Bulgarian Muslims with the Kurban Bayram holiday. We wish them health, prosperity of their families, to be as hardworking and tolerant Bulgarian citizens as they have been in all the centuries in which Bulgarian Christians and Muslims live together. We wish them to be a bridge of Bulgaria to other cultures and religions, to the wealth and diversity of our world. We wish them to love Bulgaria as they have always loved it, to participate in Bulgarian spiritual and cultural life, in our education, in the creation of our republic and to turn Bulgaria together with the Christians in Bulgaria into a country that would be a model in this regard in today's troubled world. Bulgarian Muslims have repeatedly shown that they are exemplary, to put it mildly, executive Bulgarian citizens who are working for prosperity not only their families, they have contributed very much to the material creation of Bulgaria and let's celebrate this holiday together with them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Colleagues, today's extraordinary plenary session has been convened by Order No 850-05-1 of 20 August 2018 of the President of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 46, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning a request from 61 Members of Parliament on the following agenda: 1. Draft decision to take action in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company "Olympic Insurance Co. Ltd." Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 August 2018. 2. Hearing under art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov regarding the security of electronic databases stored by the Registry and Ministry of Justice Agency and the responsibility for the crisis. Honourable Members of Parliament, on the day yesterday following the issue of the order for plenary and in relation to this matter, 1 of his agenda in the National Assembly entered the Draft Decision No 854-00-57 with the importers of the National Representatives Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Alexander Nenkov, which is also to take action in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company. Therefore, and in so far as the two draft decisions cover the same matter, I am making a procedural proposal to that effect. 1 on the agenda should also be included Project for a decision to take action in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company "Olympic Insurance Co. Ltd" with importers Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Alexander Nenkov, submitted on 20 August 2018. Please, voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: 165 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Point 1 of the agenda shall be: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR THE PRESENTATION OF ACTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE REQUIREMENT OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE AID OF THE SCREEN PROTECTION COMPANIES "OLLYMPIC INSURANCE CO LTD'. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 August 2018; Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Alexander Nenkov on 20 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u8	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u9	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for the National Assembly to allow Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Ralitsa Again, Vice-President of the Commission, Head of the Management Board, Mr. Stefan Stoilov and Mr. Borislav Mihailov, Executive Directors of the Guarantee Fund in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u11	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 172 MPs: 170 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u12	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Both points of today's extraordinary plenary are related to hundreds of Bulgarian citizens and companies. They really, as you said, are of very wide public importance. That is why I am making a procedural proposal for direct broadcast of today's extraordinary plenary session on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 164 MPs: 72 against 5, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u14	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u15	Revoting please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues of GERB, you may not have understood what we put to the vote! [[Arrival in GERB.]] Namely today's debates to be broadcast directly on National Television. I believe that as a party seeking transparency, you will agree and hide nothing from the Bulgarian citizens, provided that we really have a collapse of perhaps a financial pyramid and Bulgarian citizens should be aware of what happened. Moreover, the state is currently blocked because for a week de facto through the Trade Register nothing can happen. So it is quite normal for Bulgarian citizens to be informed and it is quite normal a party which, as Mr. Tsvetanov said, serves European values, namely to hide nothing from Bulgarian citizens. I therefore believe that you may have been misled and misunderstood what we are voting on. We vote that this meeting should be transmitted directly on Bulgarian television and that nothing should be hidden from Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Please, re-election mode. Vote 169 MPs: 77 against 17, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. Before we move on to the first item of today's agenda, one message: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 1 August 2018 a Decree No 201 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code was adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018 is returned for a new discussion. According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limits under art. 86, para. 2 and 3 begin from the beginning of the plenary session. It will be entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. Colleagues, we're going to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRESENT ACTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION WITH REGARD TO THE COMPANY OF THE CUSTOMER'S PAINTING COMPANY "OLLYMPIS INSUANCE CO LTD'. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 28 August 2018. There have been two drafts for a decision. I give the first word to Mrs. Ninova or Mr. Zarkov. You're welcome to brief us on the motives of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u18	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! With effect from midnight on August 17th, the compulsory insurances of about 200,000 people were suspended, putting in an extremely unfavorable situation conscientious payers who lost contributions and rights to their contracts with the Cypriot insurance company Olympis Insurance. The reason for the emergency situation is the licence of the insurance company established by the Cypriot competent authorities on 8 May 2018 that it does not cover the minimum solvency capital requirement and has not submitted an adequate action plan in this regard. So far, the Bulgarian authorities have failed to give a precise and clear answer to legitimate questions to the injured about how they can seek their benefits or return unused contributions. The communication made by the Financial Supervision Commission that we are waiting for instructions from Cyprus in order to understand what needs to be done is not serious and in itself sums up all the helplessness that the regulator demonstrates as a result of the widespread crisis. Not enough is the promise of yesterday's Finance Minister that the state will engage a lawyer in Cyprus to help victims defend their rights. It is not enough, because the offered help is holding back at least a few important points. As regards the outstanding part of the duly paid policies for which people are entitled to receive the remainder of the premiums they have paid, the fact that they will engage a local lawyer will neither ease the procedure that will most likely take years, nor, and even more importantly, could guarantee that there will be something for them from the bankruptcy table, even more so, that this company has declared only and huge losses for 2016 they amount to more than 14 million. lv. According to the C.F.R., Bulgarian citizens were damaged by 9 million. Three hundred and fifty thousand. BGN, passed directly from their pocket in the network companies of the Spanish citizen Diego Gonzales Alonso. This citizen is not allowed to provide investment services in his home Spain because of the questionable nature of his activity, but he has been free to operate for several years on the strictly regulated and carefully supervised Bulgarian insurance market. Of course, it is more than likely that the real benefit is quite different from the one appearing on paper. He may not at all bear such an exotic name as Mr. Alonso, given that the vast majority of the activities of The Cypriot lawyer and I wouldn't understand it. Therefore, we need targeted actions of all Bulgarian institutions. This lawyer, which the state can hire, whether he is the largest specialist, will not be of particular help to those who are waiting to pay the compensation due for insurance events that occurred by August 18th this year. These are, for example, the relatives of the victims and the victims of the tragic accident of Trakia on 13 April, when 6 people lost their lives, while another 23 were injured due to a hit on a bus with a car insured in Olympic. According to the legislation in force, these benefits should be sought from the Cypriot Fund, only it turns out that this fund did not receive any refunds from According to the C.F.R., 14 million were imported without grounds. lv. In the Fund for uninsured cars and other 2 million lv. In the Guarantee Fund. We are putting aside, for now, the logical question of how it is possible for years that no one, neither the C.F.R., nor the Board of the Guarantee Fund, where representatives of all insurance companies, nor the special seven-person council of this fund, have noticed that a company is importing millions that are not due. In any case, the situation creates a prerequisite for very long disputes between the two funds, the Bulgarian and the Cypriot, and in these disputes with a lawyer or without a lawyer, the wronged by the Bulgarian citizens can only be a passive observer. For these reasons, bearing in mind the mandatory nature of this type of insurance and the fact that the insurance company in question operates on a regulated market, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian BSP insists on the National Assembly to require the government, in the face of the Minister of Finance, to continue to examine all possibilities provided by the Bulgarian, European and international legislation, for the timely recovery of the amounts of the persons concerned. We must not be satisfied with the answer: There is nothing that can be done. In the presence of goodwill, there is a solution. All the institutions and the expertise we have must be involved in finding them. We are ready to consider, in urgent order and legislative changes, if necessary. Apropo, European legislation in this direction is already moving towards a change that is quite logical and can be effective precisely in such cases. It is about the possibility of Member States' funds, where the company actually operates, to compensate and consequently to enter into the rights of insurance users of the Member States where the parent company is registered. We do not need to wait for the end of the legislative procedure in the European Union. The current Directive 2016/97 on the distribution of insurance products does not exclude such an option and we can provide it in our Insurance Code if necessary. Of course, the serious market share of approximately 10%, taken over by Olympique in the company's responsibility, and the problems arising from the withdrawal of licences, also arouse a great many questions regarding the quality of the supervision of the company's activities in Bulgaria. The specialized body of the Financial Supervision Commission should be obliged to provide the National Assembly with all information on its actions towards the Bulgarian market from the moment the company appears on the Bulgarian market until August 17th this year. We also demand information regarding the general state of the Guarantee Fund, the contributions that are imported into it and its overall management. Last but not least, honourable Members, the crisis raises the issue of the overall functioning of the insurance market. This year we are witnessing a serious increase in insurance, which, according to some expectations, will reach 25%. We understand from an analysis by the Financial Supervision Commission that this is due to the fact that the premiums collected for 2017 are not sufficient to cover the costs of the insurers. At the same time, the problems with Olympics highlighted another fact that a company has been practicing aggressive dumping policies with which it has attracted customers for years. Well, there's no way the C.F.R. account's gonna come out or the insurance company's if 10% of the market works at sub-market prices! Why did the Commission not disclose this dumping? Why didn't the other board members complain against him? Why hasn't the Commission for Protection of Competition been consulted? To these questions many people, some of whom are here in the Chamber, owe answers. Last but not least, because by increasing prices, market distortions will affect all citizens, not only the stung by Olympic. In this regard, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? taking action in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister of Finance to take action to seek the possibility of recovering the amounts paid and guaranteeing the rights of persons who have entered into insurance contracts for compulsory insurance and liability with the insurance company O1ympic Insurance Co Ltd, whose action has been terminated since 17 August 2018. 2. The Financial Supervision Commission on the basis of art. 29, para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act to provide to the National Assembly a report on the supervision of the activities of the insurance company.Olympic Insurance Co Ltd. in Bulgaria together with information on the ownership of the company and the contributions made by it to the guarantee fund. 3. By 7 September 2018, the Minister of Finance shall inform the National Assembly of the actions taken under this paragraph. 1 and the Financial Supervision Commission shall submit the report under point 1. 2. I allow myself to conclude by finding with some satisfaction the fact that colleagues from GERB have submitted an identical practical solution to ours. In it, however, there are some significant differences that I hope we will discuss. The decision we propose is in favor of the people who have suffered from one, most likely, fraud.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] To present the next proposal and the reasons for it you have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and I have submitted a draft decision with the following reasons: On 10 August 2018, a preliminary liquidator was appointed to the Insurance Company "Olympis Insurance Co. Ltd" by the Insurance Authority of the Republic of Cyprus. Under the legislation of the Republic of Cyprus, the insurance contracts in force are automatically terminated at 24:00 p.m. on 17 August 2018. With the termination of the insurance contracts, the rights of about 200 000 Bulgarian motorists are affected, for which there has been a need to enter into new insurances within a short period of time. Given the mandatory nature of these insurances and the circumstances that the insurance company has operated on the Bulgarian insurance market with a serious market share of around 10% in the sector of responsibility and the consequences for persons under applicable foreign legislation, the need for adequate State assistance in exercising the rights of the persons concerned is raised. To the extent that the insured is a foreign person with the registered office of the Republic of Cyprus, the persons should take appropriate action in accordance with local law in the country concerned in the case under the domestic law of the State of Cyprus, which also implies support from the relevant structures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Minister of Finance, as well as jointly with the Financial Supervision Commission as a national supervisory authority, entrusted with and with responsibilities for carrying out cooperation with the supervisory authorities of the Member States of the European Union. In view of the situation created, the Financial Supervision Commission should be required to provide the National Assembly with up-to-date information on its activities in the exercise of supervision of the activities of the insurance company as well as on the state of the Guarantee Fund. We propose that the National Assembly define 7 September 2018 as a deadline for submitting reports and information by the relevant authorities. "Project" DECISION to act in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company "Olympic Insurance Co. Ltd." The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance, together with the Financial Supervision Commission, to take action to seek assistance (including, if necessary, legal assistance) to persons who have entered into with the insurance company 2. The Financial Supervision Commission on the basis of art. 29, para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act to present to the National Assembly a report on the supervision of the activities of the insurance officer under point (a) of Article 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission. 1 in the Republic of Bulgaria, together with information on the ownership of the insurance company and the contributions made by it to the Guarantee Fund (size and basis of the contributions), as well as information on the current state of the Guarantee Fund (size of funds in the money funds, management and storage). 3. By 7 September 2018, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall inform the National Assembly of the actions taken under this article. 1 and the Financial Supervision Commission shall submit the report under point 1. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, an application was received and entry No 820 00 22 from 21 August 2018 to the President of the National Assembly. Mrs. Ralitsa Agajin-Guri, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of Management, Insurance Supervision, stated that on the basis of art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act resigns as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board. A report on the current situation, the legal framework and the actions of the Financial Supervision Commission in relation to the insurance company is presented to the resigned. The resignation together with the report was distributed in parliamentary groups. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Ministers! I am making a procedural proposal to you, Madam President, to exercise your power in view of the message you have read, according to art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In exceptional cases the President may propose a change on the agenda of the sitting. It is obvious that we are in the hypothesis of an extraordinary meeting, which has been requested by our colleagues, with a view to a debate on this case. The resignation is also on this case and in view of the outcome of the debate, the conclusions of the debate, we will form an opinion on the application submitted by the Vice-President with a portfolio of insurance supervision. I therefore propose that you propose to the Members of the National Assembly that we vote on a new item. 2, conditioned by our debate on item 2. 1: consideration, discussion and vote on Mrs Ralitsa Agayne's application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second procedure please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I understand Mr. Kirilov in his desire to change the agenda, but when there is a resignation deposited, we need to hear the reasons. First, let's hear them with this report you may be familiar with only you from GERB. We, the opposition, are not aware of the report that has been submitted...... what are the reasons. [[Heckling]] Therefore, it is nice to ask Mrs Aguein for a hearing first and then really consider what the agenda should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. The report just came in with Mrs. Aguein's resignation. I will put to the vote the procedure proposed by Mr. Kirilov and which I, as Chairman, support. Please vote for extraordinary item two on today's agenda. They voted 159 MPs: 103, against 21, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. That's where the second emergency point was accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u26	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the proposal to vote on this resignation just adopted, we are in favour of our group. The question is this, my procedure is as follows. The submitted report, as you well know, no one has had time to read it or to get acquainted with the factual situation in which debates will now take place. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u28	Please, I suggest you invite Mrs. Aguein to make a summary of this report so that we in the debates can take a stand on this point. As you said, we need to form an opinion on how to vote on the resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u29	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u30	My procedure is: before you begin the debates to invite Mrs. Agane to make a summary or read the report, I do not know how long it is. If it is long, make a summary to see what is the factual environment that MPs do not know. Yesterday we found out the government knew it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u31	You mean at this first point now, before the debate?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u32	Before the debate briefs us on the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u33	Colleagues, I think we all support this proposal. Mrs. Agane, please present the report you submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to present information on the factual situation surrounding the withdrawal of an insurance company's license and the actions taken by the Financial Supervision Commission, of course, and personally by me as Vice-President, because I believe that this is important, first of all, for consumers, in order to clarify the extent to which payments are guaranteed and to what extent assistance can be given or additional solutions are needed, which includes political interference. I would like to start with information on the legal framework for the payment of benefits to people who have insurance benefits from the insurance company. As it became clear, the insurance company is a branch of a Cypriot company registered in Bulgaria under the conditions of the Single European Market. Due to the legal framework of our two countries, Bulgaria and Cyprus, as well as under a multilateral agreement, insurance benefits of the motorists are fully guaranteed. This guarantee is provided by the Convention on Regress between Guarantee Funds in the event of the insolvency of a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Convention was signed in 2012 by the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund, and before that in 2010, was also signed by the Cyprus Guarantee Fund. In addition, as in the Bulgarian law, the national law on liability of the motorists in Cyprus provides that their fund the National Motor Office, as it is called in Cyprus, is finally covering the bankruptcy of an insurance company licensed in Cyprus. The same, similar provisions are in our law with regard to Bulgarian insurers. Due to these provisions, there is a necessary legal framework for the payment of insurance benefits to the drivers of the guarantee fund system. In order to be able to start paying the benefits, two actions are needed. One is on the part of the competent court in Cyprus, the one in Nicosia, who has to rule on the request of the Cypriot regulator for the company's declaration of liquidation. According to preliminary information, unofficially, it is expected that the hearing of the competent court will take place in mid-September. From the moment the court decides to initiate the liquidation procedure and appoint a permanent liquidator, the liquidator may initiate the actions of the liquidator for payment of benefits, including official communication with the guarantee fund system. The other action that needs to be taken is the conclusion, specifying the mechanisms for payments between the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund and the Guarantee Fund of Cyprus. Under the Convention on the International Agreement between Guarantee Funds in the European Union, the Cyprus Guarantee Fund is the final payment of all payments related to insurance benefits for motorists. At the same time, in order not to make it difficult for the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund will be the one to serve the payments in Bulgaria. Under this Convention, claims for compensation must be made before it, the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund to determine the amount of benefits, and it is stated in the Convention that these benefits must be determined in the same way as they would have been otherwise determined. Subsequently, after our Guarantee Fund has paid a compensation, it will claim a claim to the Cyprus Fund. I would like to emphasise that the system of our insurance fund is not part of European legislation. It was set up on a proposal from the Financial Supervision Commission, more precisely on my proposal, because there is no mechanism in the European Union to compensate for the insolvency of an insurance company, including 12 Member States in which there is no insurance fund at all. In Bulgaria, currently under the conditions of free provision of services, 618 insurance companies, 13 of which branches and other insurers are active under the conditions of freedom to provide services, i.e. distance. For some of these insurers, as it becomes clear for at least those 12 countries that do not have a guarantee fund, similar risks would arise. I would like to say a few words about the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission in the Single Insurance Market in the European Union. First of all, the mechanisms of the Single Market are such that each insurance company that receives a licence once in one country can freely, as if moving from one city to another, go and work in the territory of another Member State. The mechanisms and legislation of the European Union shall not allow any possibility for a local regulator to object, refuse or delay admission of an insurer from another Member State. There is a two-month period within which, if such supervision does not send a letter of necessary legal information, the insurer may start operating. These 618 insurance companies operate in our country, as well as many other Bulgarian insurance companies operating in the territory of other Member States, where probably the other insurers also have some local concerns, but nevertheless no one is able to prohibit the Bulgarian insurance companies from carrying out this activity there and it is the responsibility of the Bulgarian regulator, of us. As far as the insurance company is concerned, it has been operating since 2009 following a notification by the Cypriot regulatory authority. I would like to emphasise that, until now, the Financial Supervision Commission has not received any signals and complaints from consumers about any problems related to the company's activities and payment of benefits. From the beginning of 2018 to 10 May, the complaints against this company are seven, for the previous year are 26, and for the previous year are 16, which is an extremely small number of complaints against the background of 10% market share, as is clear in the market of..................................................................................... All these complaints are, of course, dealt with, penal decrees are issued where there are violations of administrative procedures for customer service, and fines of a total of maybe thirty-several thousand leva are imposed, which is not a significant amount. I would like to give a comparison that in 2016 I imposed 342 penal decrees worth 954 thousand. BGN, in the following year 697 penal decrees worth 1 million $700,000. BGN, and for 2018 until now 495 penal decrees worth 1 million 200,000. lv. So the penalties that have been imposed on "Olympic" and the number of complaints lodged in no way show any problems. With regard to the average cost of the insurance that was mentioned, I would also like to provide you with information. First of all, I would like to stress that last year, after regulatory changes, we made a significant reorganization of the Single Information System of the Guarantee Fund, and after 11 November, we already have absolutely accurate and reliable information, both through a link with the Ministry of Interior and correct information on premiums. For last year, I presented information distributed until November 11th and after November 11th, and by November 11th the price for cars of Olympik is BGN 196. the average market price is BGN 179, i.e. the average market price is almost BGN 20. Lower. After November 11th, the average price of Olympik is BGN 207. at average price for the market BGN 196 This is data from the Guarantee Fund again significantly higher than the average market price. It is possible in certain segments, for example at a certain driver's age, to have a lower price, but this is free competition and it is it that makes the market good for consumers. In this sense, it cannot be said that there was any long-term dumping from this insurer. I am using this case to say something that I think is extremely important. Indeed, there has been a shortage of premiums in the last year of insurance for car drivers and a few weeks ago, in June, an interpretation decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation was adopted, which is extremely fair for consumers. It extends the circle of persons entitled to receive compensation for death. This includes road accidents. Already death compensation will be received not only the closest relatives, not only husband and wife, will receive children, will receive compensation and brothers and sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, other relatives and others who are emotionally connected. This decision can expect an additional cost for the industry of more than 800 million. BGN, which are currently not provided for in the reserves and are not collected with premiums from the insurers. So the risks to the industry are essential. The risks to consumers, if the insurers do not have the means to pay benefits, you see what the consequences might be. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the Financial Supervision Commission cannot regulate the cost of insurance, as many times have been asked by the media, to place a ceiling, but may pay attention to which we have sent a letter to the insurers that it is necessary to assess these risks, including taking into account the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation and updating their prices in such a way if they have to reduce their costs, of course, if possible for them, but to update their policy in such a way as to be able to pay benefits in the future. In addition, I would like to provide information regarding the policies that were terminated on 17 August. That's 197,000 policies. For some relief, a large part of them have been concluded under the conditions of deferred payment of contributions. On these policies people will not pay a further contribution, which reduces the loss, but for one part of the people, in particular nearly 29 thousand people, the payment will be relatively much larger, materially more than the others, will exceed 100 BGN. and in some cases the value of the average loss is about BGN 200. Unfortunately, the European Union guarantee fund system under this agreement does not cover these payments, which represents a serious loss for our consumers. In this case, however, no fund in the European Union provides payment for this kind of coverage. Specifically for actions related to the withdrawal of the insurance licence. For the first time, a notification was received from the Authority of Cyprus on 10 May to the Bulgarian Financial Supervision Commission. The communication included information that the insurance company's license was revoked on grounds of insolvency, as well as a ban on disposal of assets and request the Bulgarian Commission to take reciprocal action. That same day, I submitted a report to the Financial Supervision Commission as a collective body. The Commission ruled on the same day by banning the disposal of assets by the insurance company in Bulgaria and also forbade the insurance company to enter into new contracts. This decision on the same day we sent the Guarantee Fund to exclude them from the Single Information System. The same day was sent to the Trade Register. The next day it was entered both in the Property Register and in the Commercial Register and was announced on the Commission's website. The decision was also published a few days later in the Official Journal. As it later became clear, the grounds for withdrawing the insurance licence in Cyprus are related to transactions carried out by the insurer in 2017, which affected its balance sheet at the end of the year. This is the purchase of an insurance company in Brazil that the Cypriot company accounted for 150 million. EUR in its balance sheet and its auditors have estimated that the fair value of this investment cannot be measured, as well as a deal with the parent company's corporate bonds, which were acquired again in 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR and the insurer's auditors shall assess that those assets cannot be accepted at that value on the balance sheet, resulting in the supervision, as provided for by the Insurance Directive, which shall give instructions to the insurer to be capitalised and, if it has not fulfilled them, the insurance undertaking's licence shall be withdrawn. As I said, the Commission's decision to prohibit the disposal of assets, as well as the information on the licence withdrawn, was published on the same day as the 10th of May by the Financial Supervision Commission. Debt and detailed correspondence were subsequently carried out with the Cypriot regulatory authority, where additional information was repeatedly requested to benefit Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, so far the information has come slower than the pace we would like to receive it. It is announced immediately, and for the first time only on 10 May the Financial Supervision Commission has received information that the contracts are to be terminated, and it is within an extremely short period of time when the decision to appoint a liquidator to the Cypriot State Gazette has just been published by the Cypriot Surveillance Authority. That's my statement in a nutshell. Of course, the report contains more information. Finally, I would like to say that there is no power from the Financial Supervision Commission that exists and has not been exercised by both the Financial Supervision Commission and myself personally as Vice-President. We also sent a request to the legal service of the European Insurance and Pensions Authority for the powers of the Bulgarian regulator in the situation of a host country. The answer was adamant that the Bulgarian regulator in the situation of a host country is obliged to comply with and implement the decisions of the country of origin by taking reciprocal actions where they are requested. The reciprocal actions requested were the ban on asset disposal and the ban on the conclusion of new contracts, with no further action requested and probably not necessary according to the Cypriot regulator, which they did not impose. In addition, all available information, in so far as it is provided, has been announced by the Financial Supervision Commission and has been reported to the President and all the members of the Commission, as most decisions concerning the insurer are related to the Commission's activities as a collective body. In this sense, I would like to assure you that everything that exists in European legislation and is transferred to ours in the implementation of European legislation is strictly implemented by the Financial Supervision Commission. Indeed, however, unfortunately, there are 200,000 Bulgarian citizens who will suffer a loss from their policies being terminated. The compensations, as I said, will be paid, especially for insurances of the motorists, but the citizens who had insurance contracts, these 200,000 citizens, unfortunately, will not be compensated by an insurance scheme and will have to wait for the winding-up procedure in Cyprus, where, hopefully, they will receive benefits. In this regard, and in connection with the political situation, I have tabled today my resignation as Vice-President, which I hope you will accept. I would like to say that for me this is an emotional and moral act as an empathy towards Bulgarian citizens, but I would like to stress that in no case has the Financial Supervision Commission allowed gaps or there are gaps in our legislation that have in any significant way affected the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Aguein. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u36	Madam President, Prime Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u37	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u38	After what we've heard, I'd like to ask Mrs. Agine a few questions, because in what we've heard today, and in what different representatives of the government have said in recent weeks, there is a huge gap. Mrs. Agane, has what you have presented to the National Assembly become known to the Prime Minister particularly at the last meeting that was held in the Council of Ministers a few days ago? Who in the state have you provided this information to? You are here representing the Financial Supervision Commission, an extremely important state institution. On this side is the Council of Ministers, which is running the state at the moment. It is unacceptable for the Financial Supervision Commission and for a government to have such a gap between a state institution. And it's in the following directions. Firstly, Mr. Prime Minister said publicly: "The person who has deceived himself into paying cheaper insurance has taken a risk. You must have expected that if it's cheaper, there's a problem. You say the price wasn't dumped. Which one is true? Secondly, the Prime Minister said that if the state intervened, it would be at the expense of the taxpayers, and you claim that if the state intervened, it would be at the expense of the guarantee funds, ours and the Cypriots, where the contributions were made by the insurers, and not by the taxpayers, a second gap. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Thirdly, and to this day the government claims, including with the proposal for a decision today of colleagues from GERB, that the state cannot intervene, except to help with advice and lawyers in Cyprus, and you claim... We have supported this statement since Friday. Here it is, I have the contract between the Bulgarian and Cyprus guarantee fund. We argue that there is a way for the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund to intervene and then announce its claims to the Cypriot not only under the Bulgarian legislation, but also on the basis of the contract between the two countries. The government claims to this day that such interference is not possible. I ask you to answer us and clear these contradictions here are both sides, and if we can in Parliament, where we are, we can resolve the matter. For us the main question is: how to help at the moment those over 250 thousand Bulgarians, turned out to be hospitals and other state institutions in Bulgaria? How can the state perform its functions on a regulated market and not transfer responsibility to the people who have been made to insure themselves that this is a compulsory civil liability?! How can Bulgaria's Guarantee Fund make commitments to the Bulgarian citizens and then make the corresponding claims to the Cyprus Fund? That's what's important right now. The draft decision, which GERB proposes, does not answer these questions. That's exactly what our Project Solution suggests. Let the professionals help us make the right decision. However, the second question, no less important, is that of responsibility. Why did it come to this? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Goranov wants to take the floor. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u40	Madam President, thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Mrs. Ninova, as soon as I make the brief clarification I will make based on the questions you have asked, I will give, of course, an opportunity to Mrs. Agine if she wants to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u41	She's an independent body.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u42	It is an independent body, undoubtedly. And here it is necessary, because you asked questions to the government, to remind ourselves that the draft decision and the reasons for it, which were presented by the MP from the left, highlighted precisely dumping. I'd like to recall that because Mrs. Aguein wasn't involved in such a debate. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] to the Prime Minister. Let's read Mrs. Aguein's report again. What Mrs. Agane said, and which I don't know if you've been able to understand, because you've just been presented... [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u43	We're trying, Mr. Goranov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u44	I note the following: there is no difference in Mrs Against's position and what we commented yesterday that the Greek Guarantee Fund is obliged for compensations for incurred civil responsibilities by the bankrupt company, the company for which bankruptcy is expected. What is missing, however, is a reproach on the Guarantee Fund, which, though with some delay, only in 2012, after from 2009 the branch of the They have correctly joined in 2012, according to the Chairman of the Governing Council's comment that we are joining, only on condition that such damage will be paid by the Cyprus Guarantee Fund. And the role of the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund is a transmission, a local authority Otherwise... [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] There is no comment on regression. And that is not the way the Agreement is concluded on behalf of the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund. The colleagues are here, you will be able to listen to them as well. What is the risk and where is my reproach on the Guarantee Fund for its actions, not from May 5, but from 2012? Why, colleagues, when you joined the Convention, didn't you finish your job of communicating with the Cyprus Guarantee Fund and settle the technical details so that we wouldn't have this conversation today? Or why, colleagues, after information from the Cypriot state appeared on 10 May 2018, you did not start the technical work, which would allow as quickly as possible this part of the guarantees that exists between the two guaranteeing mechanisms of Bulgaria and Cyprus to be implemented as quickly as possible, something on which we will have to work with you on the basis of this decision? This reproach can also be spread over supervision, insofar as supervision is his day-to-day work and is not obliged to be accountable to the government, but mainly to parliament. Why, colleagues of supervision, do not think about creating an appropriate way, because we have huge external pressure on our market, you quoted yourself over 600 insurers who are entitled to operate on our market and explain to the Bulgarian citizens to make it clear that the insurance fund in Bulgaria, which must cover the insolvency of the insurance company, is applicable only to Bulgarian insurers and such insurance fund cannot benefit from established insurers in the territory of the European Union outside Bulgaria? Here comes the big question: how can we now look for a solution for this 9 million and something that is not covered by our insurance fund? If it is known to the people that, in the event of insolvency of a European Union insurance company for the unrealized premiums, there is no mechanism other than pure insolvency, it was in Cyprus, it was in Germany, which was at any other point of the European Union, to be realised through the respective claims in trade or national law, this must be clarified and it must be clear to any Bulgarian citizen who must be insured on the market that if he enters into a contract with a non-Bulgarian company, the risk of losing his premium or part of it upon early termination of the policies is real and there is no guarantee mechanism in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to cover it. This was not explained to the Bulgarian citizens and this gives a comparative advantage to these operators in the territory of Bulgaria who contribute to this insurance fund and which was created by the business. I conclude with the comment that if you read carefully the Code of Insurance premiums to be paid are in favour of the insurers, but the contributions to the two accounts managed by the Guarantee Fund are not at the expense of the insurers, not generated by them, but by the money of the Bulgarian insurance company. This must be clear with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, it belongs to him. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They're his! Because it's a quasi-tax liability. It wouldn't exist if the Bulgarian law didn't force it. And if we now, with a light hand, decide, although we will participate in this debate, we will adopt a decision today, in September, I will report to the parliament what are the possible solutions, if we decide with a backdrop to cover such a risk of a company that has not already served it, it will damage our companies that have contributed contributions to this fund. This will damage the Bulgarians who are forced to import by law into this fund. [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u45	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u46	I'm done. Mrs. Agine will probably answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tsonev, for a statement? You have more questions for Mrs. Aguein. Let's get some questions together. Please come in for a statement so that questions can be gathered that Mrs. Aguein can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for the word and for the understanding. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to express my gratitude and admiration for Mrs Agine's moral act of empathy for consumers, and from this point of view, our parliamentary group will probably support the resignation because it is her act, not because it is requested by the government. Secondly, from everything we have heard so far and from the very careful analysis that I, entrusted by my parliamentary group, have done, it is very clear that the Financial Supervision Commission has generally done its job in accordance with European and Bulgarian legislation. I'm surprised at the lack of communication strategy. In fact, should we be wondering? This is not the first case where there is no such case not only from the Financial Supervision Commission, largely from other executive bodies, and independent bodies, but also from the National Assembly itself. I'm surprised at the extremely high dose of ignorance and not understanding the problem and the fact that people who are supposed to know don't know it and don't understand it. What did we find out from the report? Firstly, it is the responsibility of the country that gives the licence to carry out the supervision is very clear on the European regulations. Second, the regime is noticeable. Our insurance companies do the same thing when you have a license in one country, you operate in another, you just notify. Where is the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Commission here? Thirdly, there is a mixing of concepts, which is normal for ordinary people and consumers not to understand, but it is not normal for people who deal with this matter not to understand. Mr. Minister, the guarantee funds are created and secure what happens when the damage occurs. They don't cover the payments, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u49	Premiers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u50	Premiers. All guarantee funds in Europe, where they were created, said that in twelve countries there are none created at all, we do. However, this EIOPA, which we raised as a flag during the Echoes, which intervened very far beyond its powers, has not provided for consumer protection legislation in the European Union because it imports it into the European Commission as a supervisory authority, it is its duty. We have collateral when the damage comes. There is an obligation for guarantee funds to pay the compensation in order not to harm third parties, not to harm European insurers to whom there is a claim, and they must bring the claim to the one in which they are insured for liability. What happens to consumer contributions when the insurance company fails? Europe is silent, Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister. There is no such legislation provided for in any country. Consumers burn everywhere if this happens, and it happens very regularly in all countries of the European Union. Just to remind you: the crisis in Greece, the major financial crisis began with the bankruptcy of seven or eight insurance companies, not banks. That's how it started. And I agree with the Prime Minister and the government that this issue should not be underestimated. But let's look at things the way they are. I have the feeling that someone has been misled with regard to information, with regard to provisions, with regard to concepts, with regard to European legislation, with regard to the responsibilities of the Commission for Financial Supervision as a supervisory authority, with regard to legal persons authorised in another country of the European Union. As legislator, we need to be aware of these things when we are looking for responsibility when we want to improve legislation. Can we replace the Guarantee Fund by legislative means to pay and contributions to a bankrupt insurance company? We will probably be the first country in the European Union. It's okay. Should we have done this by now, given that this is not at all in regulations and legislation? I can't answer that question, and I'm sure no one can answer that question. Because we, I've said it before from this tribune, so blindly follow European legislation as if it were the divine legislation, it's the decalist. No, it's not the decalist, it's just a law filled with faults! These problems and consumer attitudes have led the English to leave the European Union not by mistake, not by bad propaganda, but because they see these shortcomings, but we see them as well. Further, specifically on this case. What happened after the company went bankrupt? Step by step we see that the Financial Supervision Commission has taken absolutely all measures, including communication with the relevant authorities in Cyprus. However, consumers want theirs. We, as politicians, have to do something. The normal debate here would have been if we had concentrated on the measures and not, first of all, trying to find out who would take the responsibility, because now we see that a person is taking it for moral reasons, there is no fault, and you will see that the verification will prove that. The entire C.F.R.A. Is not responsible, I'm not just talking about Mrs. Agine. From this point of view, the debate here is too inverted. Yesterday the horse was behind the wagon. Today we are just getting acquainted with the facts and now we are commenting on them. In my opinion, it shouldn't have been like this, because ultimately it is our duty to go before events and not after them. Our parliamentary group will support any proposal that would prevent the Bulgarian consumers of this insurance. From now on, we will strongly oppose any attempt to blame the regulator on this insurance company and its bankruptcy until proven otherwise. We accept the act of resignation of Mrs. Agane as a moral act and we believe that we should consider what measures to be taken. Because, Prime Minister, I turn to you, the things that are happening in the.........I am interested as a professional in this sphere, will very soon lead to similar problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u51	Why me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u52	Because this problem must be controlled and I believe that you have the power and sufficient political will to do so. There are problems in the Green Card. There is a European mechanism under an agreement that unconditionally pays damages in other countries and where hundreds of millions of Bulgarian insurers are drained, understand the Bulgarian consumers. I propose in the Budget Committee that we make this debate.. to call the Association, to call for a Zelena map, because it is a civic responsibility, to see what money goes there and whether there are signals of criminal, mafia schemes outside the territory of Bulgaria. There's plenty of signals like that. This would be prevention of things that would happen further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Replices? Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u54	Mr. Tsonev, I agree with you that, indeed, European legislation has not provided for absolutely no measures in the Consumer Protection Directive in these cases. I would like to say to you that in the Bulgarian Code of Insurance in the part of the Guarantee Fund and in particular the Guarantee Fund are guaranteed, I quote: Claims! So the Bulgarian law, unlike European legislation, provides for claims, whatever this concept includes, and, God forbid, that we should have, through the Bulgarian court, to specify what it includes. The second thing I want to do to you as a line, Mr. Tsonev, is that you will support any proposal to compensate the victims of this bankruptcy. I suppose that what will be proposed is precisely the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund, the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund to pay before seeking a claim and before concluding an agreement with the Cypriot guarantee fund. But I would like to say categorically that any such payment means payment from each taxpayer, because the money in this guarantee fund is actually the money of each taxpayer. If each one of you opens your policy for liability, which has paid for the car, you will see that this contribution is recorded there on a separate line. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u55	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u56	If it is to be covered by the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund, this means that each one has to pay more in the coming periods to compensate for this payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Zarkov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u58	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister, ministers! Dear Mr. Tsonev, first of all, I would like to say that we will support Mrs. Agyin's resignation, but this is a secondary matter. The prime question is: how can we help the victims? However, it is worth entering the debate and legislation, as we will most likely find a legal path through legislation, which does not mean a change in legislation at all costs. Firstly, I read the directive, which is relevant to the case. It is not quite true that the Bulgarian regulator cannot do anything and, in order not to be bald, I quote: "In the case of opening a branch or establishing a permanent presence in another Member State, it is appropriate to allocate responsibility for the implementation of the provisions to the Member State of origin and the host country. "This is § 22 of the That needs to be clarified. Again, European legislation: The competent authority of the host Member State should have the right to intervene if the home Member State does not take the appropriate measures. I allow myself to say that new European legislation is currently being built. I think the Minister of Finance spoke yesterday about the Motor Directive. There's talk of regression and possible fillings. You're right, Mr. Tsonev, no legislation is perfect, but with regard to the contributions of the people's money, not the damage we've learned there's a good chance of finding a solution. Article 602 of the Bulgarian Insurance Code states that this is in the event of liquidation that for the purposes of this Part an insurance claim is any claim, including the premium under an insurance contract which has not been concluded or entered into force or upon early termination of an insurance contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u59	Mr. Zarkov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u60	Last, dear Madame Chairman! Thank you. Let's just say that Olimpik was making contributions. The people who are insured by the Olympic Fund and are charged money for both the guarantee fund and the guarantee fund for the entire period and the guarantee fund is created only in a situation of bankruptcy. Leave Mrs. Against's resignation, it's her right, and we must respect it. Let's think about what we need to do to compensate people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. [[Replication by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Noise and lines.]] Let's finish the procedure, Prime Minister. Third line, Mr. Kirilov. [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] There's gotta be a douche bag, Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov, for a replica and follow the duplicate. We must follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, MPs! My line in this situation will be extremely brief. I support Mr. Tsonev's basic thesis that this case is primarily experimented with legal ignorance. Apart from the general ignorance of the philosophy of insurance relationships, here the great manipulation is not knowing the complex mechanisms of designing relationships in insurance and insurance contracts. Look, I'm ruling out everything else, and I'm not going to argue about whether or not a guarantee regime is set up in the directive. I think it's a warranty arrangement. My reading of the directive is that we have a clear reference to who is taking responsibility in this situation and this is the Cyprus Fund. I fully support the conclusion of the C.F.R. from my reading in this sense. But, notice, who leads the whole production? It is led by the Cypriot regulator, led by the Cypriot law and by art. 323 is clearly written down what the temporary supervisor should do to terminate the contracts. [[Replication by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Noise and lines.]] Because the Prime Minister said to abort, I'm calling it off. [[(Noise. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u64	It could have been, Prime Minister, without all this nonsense, as you pointed out quietly earlier. I do not see anything significant in the lines, but I got up to get the duplicate for one reason: to illustrate with Mrs. Stoyanova's line how there is a gap and a misunderstanding in terminology. That is exactly what I said in my statement that in terms of damages claims there are both in the European and in the Bulgarian. The damage, not the payments! Do you understand? The damage will be done now, but the payments won't. So that's the gap in terminology and not going into substance. So I appealed to a communication campaign so that people could understand what it was about. I don't have anything to say to Mr. Zarkov because I think we talked about the same thing. What you are saying about the allocation of responsibility between the host country and the one issuing the licence is when there is a request from the regulator of the host country. That's what you forgot to say when there's a request to the host country. And when there was, they were responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. For a speech Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u66	And Mrs. Agine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u67	Yes, yes, and Mrs. Agane will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the first question, Mrs. Ninova: I haven't seen Ralitsa Agayne, I haven't heard from her in years. Again, because you asked, and so you started: neither have I heard from her nor seen her in the last years, if not 4 years ago 5 or somewhere, and a report to me has not come to me. After you spoke publicly about an extraordinary meeting at the Council of Ministers yesterday, I invited Karina to ask her what was going on in this sector with my colleagues from the National Security Agency, with my colleagues from the Finance. Because now that we have an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers today, on the logic that you asked me the question, I am now sorry that I called it in because our place is not here today at this debate. The C.F.R. is elected by parliament, the C.F.R. is accountable to parliament. What business did you call us here for? I can answer you like that. We have come with all due respect and I am simply answering the first question: in no way have they interfered with them, but what these days I have asked the services to say mainly: we have a major problem in insurance. It was no accident that Mr. Tsonev set an example with the Greek insurance companies, where everything started. There are people with 300 cars that are insured in Romania, in Italy, in Germany, in Macedonia, in Greece with Bulgarian registration plates. Is 42% of the crashes logical, or as they are led by the insurance events in Romania, 42% are with Bulgarian plates? If you want and if the purpose of today's sitting is indeed because there are also cases resulting from such meetings we have done a good job, this problem whether it will come to us after a time or whenever will come. However, today we are gathered, you can see that even those who think of themselves as specialists in finance from different parties, talking about guarantee, insurance, on which account, what damage is involved, what is the responsibility, I am convinced that the huge part of the people in this House is not clear to them. It's so subtle, delicate and specific, even the dictionary of those who speak. I have put in place a few days ago for police attachés in these countries to come into contact, to compare the number of acts found from violations of the relevant police services in these countries. It's starting to come out that even cars that go to junkyards, but they have their signs down, they drive them there. We are talking about cheap cars - three, four, five thousand BGN, in many times less socially weak countries, however, when damage occurs respectively our insurance companies pay, and they are 600 and several. Not by accident yesterday, because you wanted political, but we in this case what political responsibility to bear for the fact that the C.F.R.S. is elected by parliament by consensus, respectively, the Presidents and Vice-Presidents, including because of the spectators or listeners of what we are talking about, the head of the C.F.R.S. has no rights over her vice-president and everyone is doing what... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me? Well, how can there not be? She can't ask her at least that I know. So whether the resignation will be supported, whether it will not be supported, it will not solve the cardinal issues for us. Yeah, it's a moral act. Because it shouldn't be here that the BSP wants us to help the 200,000, and the other parties don't want that to happen. It's not because we need to see how much money to do it. And second of all, if we do this, let's know what precedent this is going to be from here on out. If tomorrow becomes second, third or fourth, it is clear in the banks: a bankrupt bank of 100 thousand. Euros, it's unclear here. I offer each party one or two, or Financial Commission, as you wish.. You are the parliament, decide it, today we cannot solve it, you see yourself entering such a regime. Five days, six days, seven days, three days, let's work these experts, at least the terms to align, read well what it says, and agree these x experts to the number that we will determine, and tell us: this can be taken money from here, naturally we will, but you yourself will assign us the task that is based on reached consensus and competence. When I speak to the Finance Minister, he is the competent person. He says: we from this Fund cannot give. You say you can. What's it gonna take for tomorrow, and the next day to work, to get back together on Friday, on Saturday, again, on Sunday, again, and finally figure it out?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u69	An inquiry committee, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u70	Why? An inquiry committee against who, against your choice?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u71	It's a task force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u72	A working group that can solve it and come up with a proposal: if we're going to pay this money, let's know on the basis of what, how and why we're paying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u73	Mr. Yankov, you have a chance to speak. Don't replicate from place.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u74	By that logic, Mr. Yankov, I could have said: Parliament has enough experts, why are you looking for us to be here today? I could have answered you like that. But you were going to say: we don't respect your parliament. I come and offer options, and I see that the experts of Parliament at least who I know and speak now together with our experts, do not speak the same thing, do not know the law well or, if we are going to change the legislation, he well said it, we offer one, two, three points, this group offers it to us, we gather, we make this decision and we defend our actions further. We'll prepare reports from the police, second, third, and propose. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, that's what I'm suggesting. Let's make a decision. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u75	Thank you, Prime Minister. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siderov. I'll give it to Mrs. Aguein, and I'll give her the floor, just let them gather questions so she can come out with one way to answer all the questions. Mr. Siderov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u76	Thank you, Madam President. First, to say that I, as a very exemplary MP, immediately responded to the whistle of the pipe to gather overtime and the first thing I asked for was the reasons for this meeting signed by the MPs of the BSP. They say that the National Assembly is being called up to examine the government in the face of the finance minister all the opportunities provided by the Bulgarian, European and international legislation for the timely recovery of the amounts of the affected persons. Those who have already spoken here I will not repeat them, it became clear that it was before me, by the way, the report of Mrs. Agyin............................................is the report of Mrs. Agyin................................I took him to my room................................................ We cannot use European legislation for the simple reason that the beloved Brussels has failed to introduce such regulatory measures. We can use who? Cyprus and Bulgarian. We can't interfere in Cypriot, we can't change that. By the way, Cypriot legislation says in art. 29, point (c) of the Act governing the compulsory insurance of Cyprus that the company of Cyprus's motor insurance companies is obliged to pay compensation to third parties for claims. The law does not impose restrictions on size and territorial scope. If anyone's gonna have to pay, it's the Cyprus fund. So far, that's clear. A second regulatory measure, which I did not hear a proposal to change, because the Cypriot text cannot be changed by the Bulgarian guarantee system and the guarantee fund according to art. 565, para. 1 of the Insurance Code, the Insurance Fund covers bankruptcy compensation for the insurance company authorised in Bulgaria. Over. Period. We cannot require the Bulgarian Insurance Fund to pay benefits under a company that is not registered in Bulgaria. So far, the law limits us. If you had suggested in the motives: we propose to get together and change art. 565, para. 1 of the Insurance Code, we would have had material to discuss. We do not now, but as has been said before, I will support this vision of the Prime Minister that we need to make some work committee to make sense of our gathering, which will make legislative changes which will now prevent such cases from happening from now on. An example was really given by Mr. Tsonev........................ for Greece. There are really several insurance companies going bankrupt in a row, but why? Here we come to the basic philosophical question, Mrs. Ninova, why did it come to this? Because Bulgaria took the path of one, how to say it, unlimited liberalisation, liberalisation without any borders. All possibilities have been removed for the state to hold similar sectors in which to ensure security. Why shouldn't there be a state insurance company in Bulgaria, for example? [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Yes, they will now say that I must be returning communism, but that is not the case, there is one in which to enter exactly these mandatory insurance policies and then we will not talk about Cyprus and offshores and about phantom owners of companies. That, if anyone in this room proposes, I agree. If one of the colleagues proposes it, we can discuss it and see if this part, the mandatory part, of the insurance case in a Bulgarian state company, can be returned, and then we will not assign indecent tasks to Mr. Finance Minister, because the decision proposed by BSP states: the Minister of Finance to take action in search of opportunities to recover the paid amounts. Well, he, except to start collecting donations, I don't see what other actions can... I can direct it, by the way, to some Bulgarian oligarchs to turn to. For them, nine million isn't a lot of money and to collect it as donations, but another legal option he doesn't have right now. That's right. If you really want this to happen, this decision that you have proposed, you need to propose legislative changes and then it will already make sense for our holiday gathering here. By the way, we are really ready to work, as I once suggested, and a night shift, if we have to solve this issue, and the issue of children with disabilities that we promised. It's okay, because, as you can see, here we are, the MPs, but what are we really deciding today? I can't see. I'm looking at both drafts of a solution. They're basically very close. They give a wish to give information. The information was given. We have come to the conclusion that we, here at the Assembly, and the executive, cannot at the moment also find a legal way to recover the money of these affected people. Alas, it sounds bad, but it is. If we want to lie, we can say yes, we'll find a way, we'll look, we'll dig, but right now the law won't allow it. Let's change the law then. Here's a topic, Mr. Zarkov. By the end of summer vacation, I think we can do that. I'll help you with two hands. Thank you for your attention. [[Shouting, cheering and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Replies to Mr. Siderov's statement? I don't see any lines. Do we have any other comments? Mrs. Agine, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u78	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to answering the questions, I would like to make some factual clarification, as both in the media these days and today in the discussions I see that there is some misunderstanding on some issues. One of the big questions is about contributions to the Guarantee Fund. Not that this is of great importance to the discussion at the moment, but I would like to clarify what contributions have actually been made to which funds and, therefore, what funds the Guarantee Fund has. The Guarantee Fund manages two separate funds. One is for uninsured motor vehicles, the other is the Insurance Fund. The first non-insured motor vehicle fund shall pay compensation to the victims when they have suffered an uninsured car crash from an uninsured motor vehicle. In this fund, they make contributions to the total amount of the claims payable by law, including the amount of the contributions. That means the contributions made to this fund are regularly made. They are of the same value as you pointed out in the 14 million. lv. In the other, the guarantee fund, the law also says which insurance company is required and has to make a contribution. These are Bulgarian insurers and branches of insurance companies outside the European Union. We don't have any. In other words, only Bulgarian insurance companies must make contributions to it. The guarantee fund has also been established by the Olympic Fund and all of them have contributed to this fund, which is worth 2 million. lv. They must be restored. Now it is good for the lawyers to discuss to whom they should be recovered because they are collected by the people........................................................................................................................ to be reimbursed........................................................................................................................... As regards the information on the state of funds and their funds, the total available funds, i.e. the own funds of the Guarantee Fund at the moment, by 30 June, is 135 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, as 76,3 million lv. are in the Fund for Uninsured Vehicles and 58.5 million. lv. They're in the trust fund. In any event, the Guarantee Fund has the liquidity to take over those payments that are to be made in respect of the insurance company. Another clarification I ask you to allow me to make in relation to the powers of the Commission, because you have cited the right of the local regulator of the host country to intervene. Yes, it is, and you have read it correctly, but it is in terms of the common good and the provision of information. These are the rules for consumer protection................................................................................................................................................................. Yes, in this case Bulgaria has powers and these are the powers I have reported to you that we have imposed penalties. But they are isolated cases due to a very small number of complaints. With regard to the questions raised by Mrs. Ninova, as Mr. Prime Minister clarified, I have not provided information to the government, nor to Mr. Borisov. I have provided information to the Commission, of course, to the President of the Commission and to all Commissioners, including in detail the situation in the same way as this report. [[Reply of MP Yordan Tsonev.]] With regard to the pricing of the insurance company, I would like to stress that such information is not requested to me and that I have not provided. The facts I export today are available in the Information System of the Guarantee Fund. This is the only official information that can be disclosed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Aguein. Any other speeches? Mr. Gechev made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u80	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! It seems to me that the government is applying double arsin in this case. In the crash with KTB, the resignations of Prime Minister Oresharski were constantly wanted, the minister of finance was called. Are they less independent than the Financial Supervision Commission?! Now the pancake is back because the company was registered in 2009 when you started managing and because now it's bankrupt: wow, now it's not the government's fault, but it's the blame. The Fijian Parliament?! [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's no such thing! You've got it all wrong! First, let's get the facts straight. What's the problem? He's not technically. On 10 May 2018, the regulatory authority of Cyprus declared the firm bankrupt. The company works only on the territory of Bulgaria, however. Perhaps, Prime Minister, they didn't tell you. Here, these pages. [[shows]] are the report of the Ministry of Finance because there is a special department dealing with insurance. Oh, miracles! We open the report: "Life insurance" six companies, there is not a single Bulgarian company, there is no "Olympic." There are no Bulgarians, there are no Olympics. In Cyprus, 277 million people are turning around. euros from insurance, not a single euro from a Bulgarian company, not a single euro from the "Olympik" registered in Cyprus, but operating freely and happily on the Bulgarian market. We are opening up to insurances and again wonders: all of a sudden, in second place, the Olympic Insurance Co. Ltd, with 20 million. 928 thousand. Euros. And from where, Mr. Prime Minister and colleagues? From poor Bulgaria! Bravo, praise such an insurance man! Of that 21 million, 19 million. 248 thousand. Euros are insurance................................................................................................. Wait a minute! What's going on here? The company is registered in Cyprus, first. Secondly, the owner of the company in Cyprus is a company in Luxembourg, and we can probably further guess that the owner of the company in Luxembourg is a boatman again from Fiji?! [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] We don't know. And we need to know! So what happens now? The company is registered in Cyprus, but here we justify that nothing can be done when a company with companies around the world finally throws the anchor on the Bulgarian insurance market, drains the funds on the Bulgarian insurance market, but we had no right to regulate it. There's no such thing! Ladies and gentlemen, we also quoted in interviews the other day, quoted colleague Krum Zarkov as saying there is a directive from which you cannot escape. It is the IDD since 2016, where it is strongly said that the national regulator, where they operate such branches, they say in Europe, has exactly the same regulatory rights and can request information, can communicate with Cyprus, can communicate with Belgium wherever it wants. She has every right to check, to ask questions in writing, verbally, to check on the spot. Nothing like this has been done since May 10th. What comes out now? A company that does not have a single civil liability policy in Cyprus, a Cypriot company, has decided to operate Why does it not operate in other countries of the European Union? Why didn't you go to Canada or Australia? It's not going! He's coming to Bulgaria?! What love for the Bulgarian rose?! What a love for Bulgarian state institutions that have been quietly sleeping since 2009 while they are draining the money! So how can the Bulgarian state not have anything to do with this work?! Are you kidding me? Well, then let's shut down this regulator! What's the point? Therefore, the responsibility is borne by all the management of the Financial Supervision Commission and, more precisely, by those who run the C.F.R.S. and responsible for insurance. Let's go, let's go, let's go, The owner of this firm last was some Spaniard Diego. Well, it's some Diego Maradona in insurance! [[Laughter, livening in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] He sells in Bulgaria, exports millions and no one notices it. In this regard, the question arises: what is the State Agency doing? Doesn't she have some minimal curiosity that some matriarchs from Fiji through Luxembourg to Bulgaria spend hundreds of millions in Bulgaria and some Spaniard who participates in a hundred companies around the world are forbidden to him, ladies and gentlemen, from the regulator of which country of Spain, his own! They won't let him come to Spain to do business! But in Bulgaria can perform?! Have these heads and officers from the National Security Agency ever thought that something wrong is going on here? That some hidden owners are coming to Bulgaria and draining the Bulgarian state. How much? Assuming their market is gradually growing from 2009 until now, reaching 275 thousand policies, let's say 200 thousand on average, calculating them on an average of 200 BGN. on a policy, as it was said, with a difference of plus-minus a few levs, what does it make? Forty million! In 9 years, how much does this make 9 times 4, and when you divide it into 2 in euros, what does that do? About 180 million. euros are not only a loss of Bulgarian capital, but it is money that from BGN is converted into euros, into dollars, the currency reserves of the state are drained and exported. And they're all sleeping during that time. ♪ DANS and the other institutions! ♪ With regard to the Fund. I will not enter into legal discussions, as I am not an expert in this area, but I share my doubts that something can be done at the moment under this legislation. I hope he can! But there are serious arguments that it will be very difficult. Go out and tell the people: the State Agency "National Security" slept through the foreign heroes who came and did on the Bulgarian market, the regulatory body slept through the completion and waited by Cyprus's infoburo on 10 May listening to them on the radio, how they will report the bankruptcy at 10:00 p.m. [[Applause and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Amazing! And we're innocent?! 'Cause that 150 million didn't come out. The guarantee fund, the resignation of the managers of the Guarantee Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on here now? You've been collecting 10 levs. of a policy, BGN 1.50. We're arguing about where the money is and what you're going to do. Well, you should have resigned when you lost $10 million in CCB. Have you heard that guarantee funds around the world keep their money in government securities, not $10 million in CCB? Why? Who put you up to this? And now there's no money, right, to pay the people? Second, is it true that your annual salary is 350,000? Some people, huh? Yeah, yeah! Mrs. Stoyanova, we're going to want a special report and these rules need to be changed. Because what comes out? The head of guarantee funds gets 350 grand each. lv. and finally we will not give them back to the Bulgarian citizens! What do you mean? This is a bigger salary than the BNB manager's salary! What risks do they take? First, the piggy bank chatters on every policy and comes to them. What's their credit? None! Secondly, where do they spend the money? Under the law of the State Security Act. What they govern then to receive twice as much from the governor of BNB, not to mention the ministers and the MPs! On what grounds? Why does the Financial Supervision Commission approve such costs, Ms. Karaivanova? We will call you in the fall to say whether it is appropriate to spend the money in such a way, by what standards and to make a decision. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] And in conclusion, I would like to say this: I hope there are no such cases. I'll turn to Mr. Goranov, he'll understand, God forbid! Because if there's a second case, the resignations can't only go to C.F.R. level. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you comparative success in the early elections! Thank you. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. A line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Boychev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u82	I'd like to extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u83	Please extend the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Prime Minister, Ministers! I will continue in the spirit of Professor Gechev, because until an hour ago we listened to how we have a situation, but we have no fault, how once again the Bulgarian regulator fails, but, you see, he has done all his work. I'm glad, Mr. Prime Minister, that you've begun to get into this subject and have been reported with a lot of information. I think you've been misled here and there. I will state the facts as I have read them, getting acquainted with this case, which, for me, cannot definitely end only to the responsibility of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. My arguments are therefore as follows. All you have to do is take an interest in what happens on the insurance market to understand the following circumstances. First, since the beginning of the activities of this company on the Bulgarian insurance market there have been numerous signals to the services and to the prosecution. This is the least reason to request information about this company. Mr. Gechev quoted this mythical Spanish citizen, for whom I understand that there is a ban from the Spanish authorities to carry out operations with financial instruments. But, you see, this again has no meaning for the Bulgarian services and for the Bulgarian regulators at the moment. Given that we are talking about a company that manages and operates with a branch of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is clear that all activity is carried out only in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here the issue of responsibility cannot stop to the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Secondly, it became clear that the 9th Cypriot regulator revoked the license, the 10th informed our regulator. We're in August right now, and you see that we don't know what to do in this situation, and we go out and we say, "C.F.R. has done her job." Well, she didn't do her job! Who's to know about this whole situation, who's to explain to the citizens? Any user who has insurance in Olympics, tell me right now, does he know what he has to do with all the mixed information? But it is all in European legislation that does not allow us to resolve the issue. Yes, you are! And here, in this room, the Insurance Code has been adopted, which I read for two days, and there are very clearly described responsibilities, very clearly described and the obligations. There it is also clearly stated to the Ordinance on compulsory insurance that each insurance company gives immediately information about the policies and claims made. So the C.F.R. is the body that needs to know the state of the insurance market on a daily basis, report it and take appropriate measures. It's an organ. There has been a crisis, and now we understand, I see, that the Prime Minister has also reported that there is a problem with the Zelena map. There's a problem with the Green Card, but who should raise that question? There had to be a scandal to deal with this. Right through the C.F.R., through the Bulgarian Parliament, through the Bulgarian government information can be sought? But all the information about the insurance market belongs to the C.F.R. With regard to the responsibility that you understand again, it wasn't the C.F.R.'s, it was only the vice-president. I will ask those people who have explained these things to you, Prime Minister, to ask them to give you the Insurance Code. You can only turn to art. 40. After that, to Chapter fifty-four.. Current supervision there are art. 576, 577, 578. Just one sentence: The current supervision of insurance and reinsurance companies is carried out by the Commission and the Vice-President. Now, if the President of the Commission says that she doesn't know about these cases, that she has no information, then the only thing she can do is get up and leave. So she doesn't belong there because she's responsible for the organization. So let's go out here and cover the whole thing with Ralitsa Agayne's resignation and say, well, you see, we don't have any authority. You've been let down again! We are not talking about an insurance company operating in Bulgaria based on European regulations and European law. In this case, we have concentrated on compulsory insurance, compulsory liability, where our legislation has very clearly signed the powers and responsibilities and everyone has no right to do so. There are a number of special requirements. It is not for a reason mandatory and is secured, and guarantees with these funds. Let's go to the funds, back to that regulator that, you see, did all the work. The Insurance Code clearly states that they are also responsible for the Guarantee Fund and are obliged, even now I will find the exact article. 527, to receive periodic information and to ask for it, and the Guarantee Fund to provide it. Well, how are you going to collect the insurance for the Olympics these BGN 1.50 that are for the Guarantee Fund? And now we're gonna find ourselves in a situation where we don't know what to do with this money. We didn't raise that money! There's a board there, there's a regulator. It was all over, but now, right now, when the scandal happened, until yesterday, we didn't even know how much money was raised. Here, two million have been collected and we now argue that they had no reason to be collected. Well, who was supposed to know there was no reason to collect that money? What had to happen to get us into this situation? Who is responsible for monitoring the work of the Guarantee Fund? And here we start from the beginning, but it was not guilty because it was European legislation. The only true thing that has been said about European legislation is that it has not settled the issue of contributions, indeed, but for collateral there is no problem. And we've accepted, in my opinion, not a bad insurance code, where responsibilities are clearly scheduled for this. Prof. Gechev is right, this is the second huge failure after the KTB. The second huge failure of a regulatory institution. And the way we come out of this case will depend on whether we can return some of the Bulgarian citizens' trust to the country and to the work of the institutions. And Mrs. Agane's resignation is the first mandatory step, but it is extremely insufficient to return that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u86	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, ministers! Dear colleague Boychev, I will challenge your speech first by reading part of the Commission's decision on financial supervision in the following part: After banning an insurance company from entering into new insurance and reinsurance contracts, the decision to be handed over to an insurance company. The decision to send the Registry Agency to the Minister of Justice for information in the event of an attempt to register the management transactions in real estate held by the insurance company in the Property Register. The decision to announce it on the website of the Financial Supervision Commission. The decision to send to the Ministry of Finance, the insurance supervisory authority of the Republic of Cyprus. The decision to send a bank follows. The decision to send it to the Notary House. The decision to send it to a Guarantee In other words, I accept that the Financial Supervision Commission has fulfilled its obligation under art. 587 of the Bulgarian Insurance Code, excuse me, art. 624. This was obliged to inform the Bulgarian regulator about its clients. With regard to the suggestions you make and the previous speaker also made, I stress the following, said Mr. Tsonev: let us have no doubt that the damage will be borne by the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund and that part, which is withheld for the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund, covers the risks of insurance. What part remains uncovered? And here we heard the most important message that came out of your mouth as a quote from the Minister of Finance. That part, if there are contracts with interrupted insurance cover, really should Bulgarian consumers find a lawyer, engage a lawyer to present their interest in the residual part of the cover, because only she has deprived one of the insured persons. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u88	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you are a lawyer and you understand that it is not possible for citizens to seek their own rights in Cyprus against the backdrop of the minimum amount of contributions they have. The Bulgarian regulator, having received the official decision of its Cypriot colleagues, has taken these steps that you say, but I believe they are extremely insufficient. At least this happened during May, the Bulgarian Parliament also worked then, the Bulgarian government was in Presidency mode. All the hypotheses from now on had to be provided, which occurred after the termination of the contracts of the correct Bulgarian citizens who had insured themselves in this company and to outline the different scenarios and outcomes of this situation. And if it turns out that there is a legislative gap and inaccuracies, the Commission had the appropriate opportunities to address the Bulgarian National Assembly for a decision, and not at the moment to be in this situation, in which, I am convinced, not a single consumer who has insurance in "Olympik" does not know what to do from now on. This is my claim to the Commission without going back many years in the activities of this company, that they had the opportunity to exercise their competences in general supervision. I very much hope that, Mr. Kirilov, from the inspection that I have found is going by the prosecutor's office and the services in the regulator, it will really become clear who and how, in what way, was informed. How did the files move and who really is responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and cheering.]] Colleagues, please, more intensively. I closed the speeches. I've asked a few times.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u90	There are speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u91	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry. Maybe I didn't raise my hand strong enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u93	If you've come this far, speak up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u94	The debate was useful in one direction. Firstly, to show everyone, including a part of the Council of Ministers, that there is an obvious problem in the way of the control and supervision by the Financial Supervision Commission as regards the regulation of such sectors, which are also financial in the part of the interaction between an insurance company and a customer. Secondly, this debate has clearly shown us that whether it is a matter of regulation or whether it is a matter of interaction between the authorities of the executive power and the independent supervisory authority in the face of the C.F.R.S., as if the interaction does not produce results, but leads to problems that have a financial dimension for the Bulgarian citizens as well, and as far as we can imagine, for the Bulgarian budget, looking for a way to depreciate or rather return this paid money in the form of policies that are already invalid. Next but not least, this independent body cannot be considered independent because its work concerns all consumers, concerning the institutions supervised by the body, and what is more, this body has obviously not reacted in this situation either in due time or in an adequate manner, nor has it taken the right decisions. Information about the problems with the Cypriot insurance company in the public circles, in the unspecialized media are from the beginning of the year. They are generally available to everyone, let alone to the supervisory authority, who receives information from their colleagues on the basis of the regulation which regulates this type of body throughout the European Union. And something that I'm going to finish this resignation of Mrs. Agane won't solve the problem. Moreover, here, if we use the terminology from chess, we sacrificed the pawn to preserve the important figures. But this way, we won't solve the problem. Taking personal responsibility from the insurance and insurance market supervisor is not enough because this body, colleagues, is, firstly, college, that is, decisions are taken collectively. Secondly, although it is elected by the National Assembly, it, apart from reporting to the National Assembly once a year in the form of reports, must inform the legislative authority in due time, but especially the executive authority, because in the executive power is the mechanism by which problems such as the one we have gathered today extraordinaryly can be prevented. Obviously, Mrs. Agane's resignation is the first step towards taking responsibility by the entire college body because both in politics and in the management of the C.F.R.S., the responsibility lies with the acceptance of this responsibility through the submission of resignations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. - What's the line? I can't see. [[Heckling]] Mr. Lambev was an exception simply because I did not see the raised hand and I had already announced the conclusion of the debates, so I gave Mr. Lambev an opportunity, then a request for a statement should be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u96	There are more speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u97	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking the floor the way it is. It is clearly written in the Rules and I hope it is in front of Mr Kirilov, how many minutes each parliamentary group has. And you have no reason to close the debate if the groups have time. You have reason to do so in the second vote when there are no speeches. Then you close the debate and proceed to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Each parliamentary group has a time set out in the Rules, which is a law in this country, and if you want to observe it, please give the floor to your colleagues, if not, break the law and move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Lazarov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u100	Dear Madame Chairman, honourable gentlemen and Madame Minister! As it comes to the Rules of Procedure, they quote it as the Devil's Gospel, keep the Rules, Madam President, as you have observed it. Despite the fact that BSP colleagues had a lot of parliamentary time, they did not want to speak when it was the debate on a no-confidence vote to the Interior Minister. Just because colleagues do not wish to speak or raise their hands in a timely manner does not mean that you should violate the Rules of Procedure. You made one exception because your colleague apparently later raised his hand. Nowhere is it said in the Rules that the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly should be until their parliamentary time is exhausted. Please, Madam President, you have declared an end to the debate..............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I also want to say a few words. I made an appeal to the parliamentary speaking groups, I didn't see any hands up. For Mr. Lambev, I made an exception. I've closed the debate, so we're moving on to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm strictly following the rules, fellow Members! You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The procedure is as follows: because from GERB importers are Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Alexander Nenkov and have almost plagiarized from our decision with one amendment... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, look, there's nothing wrong with that now. After all, you did not know what you should write, but I suggest that GERB's decision be divided by the individual points. Because if, on the second and third points, I tell you that we from the BSP, from the opposition, are for the opposition, this is quite normal because they fully coincide with the second and third of our proposal. At first point, however, colleagues, there is a huge difference. At the first point we propose, as the Prime Minister said, that BSP is looking for a way to help people, namely: searching for opportunities to recover the paid amounts, guaranteeing the rights of persons who have concluded insurance contracts for compulsory insurance........ with the company............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As we just found out from Mrs. Aguein, that's possible. GERB, however, offers the following: searching for opportunities for legal aid. You understand that this circus we're watching is with our foreign minister. From May 10th, the Minister of Finance had to know what was going on. As I recall, Mr. Minister, you were in charge of ECOFIN. Every month you should have met with your Cypriot counterpart, discussed this problem and already have the concrete solution. Turns out you didn't know either, which is outrageous.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u103	What's the procedure, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u104	My procedure, ma'am... Yeah, wait, I got two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u105	You're deviating from the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u106	My procedure is as follows: to divide the vote, as I highly doubt that you will support ours, although it is the right one, and I agree with the Prime Minister that it will de facto help people to be point by point. To GERB to be the first item of the vote, the second item of the vote, the third item of the vote. Because second and third points, you've completely cheated them from ours. We will support them, as a constructive opposition, we will support this proposal of yours, which is taken from ours, but the first point we really want to vote on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I will put this proposal to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Stoynev's proposal the decision submitted by the parliamentary group of GERB to be voted separately on a point by point. Vote 169 MPs: 68 against 68, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Minister Goranov wants the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u108	We're in a voting procedure, aren't we?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u109	We voted on the procedural proposal made by Mr. Stoinev. I put it to the vote as soon as he made that proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, let's vote, Mr. Goranov, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u110	The rules give me the right to speak. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u111	You have the right to speak, but we're in... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Goranov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u112	Maybe I didn't pick the right time to get involved, but I wish at the end of the debate and the debate to sum up, as many words were spoken. I do not know whether we all remained with the same belief that the legislation in force in Bulgaria and in the European Union and the forthcoming, tabled on 24 May by the European Commission, an amendment to the Motor Directive answer much of the questions. I'm speaking to find out what aspect we're focusing on. If we want to look for a solution for foreign branches of companies in bankruptcy, by foreign ones I mean those from countries of the European Union, because for others there are texts in our code, we have very few solutions for illegal changes. Different things have been heard, but at one point Mr. Tsonev did not fully express that only Bulgarian companies and those under a license in Bulgaria are obliged and are entitled to subsequently buy from them, but those who had policies in them, rights from the Guarantee Fund. That is, we are talking here about the unrealized part of the premium contribution that I will use, which is burned because of the termination of the policy. The question remains valid and strange: why did they import "Olympic" if the law does not provide for import? But the law certainly envisions for those around 600 insurers who can operate on our market that for them the risk of bankruptcy and subsequently cover the missing or unrealized part of the premium continues to stand. We must be very careful when we comment on this issue, because if we spread it to absolutely everyone, it will be a very serious change in the market and the cost of the insurance service. But we're gonna have this debate, we're gonna have it! I am in a hurry to tell you that in the coming days I will be forming in the Ministry of Finance with representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Guarantee Fund, the Foreign Ministry, and today there was a meeting of our ambassador in Cyprus supervision, one to call it a working group to help the Guarantee Fund, which is a party to the Convention. No one other than the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund is a party to this Convention. As much as you don't like it, this is the legal framework under which it has been operating since 1995, and we have joined in 2012. There has been a reproach on them since 2012, or at best since May 2018. The technical agreement is yet to be negotiated and concluded between the Bulgarian Guarantee Fund and the Cypriot Guarantee Fund in order to ensure immediately and in the first place the payment of damages, when there are, by the Cypriot Guarantee Fund, because there is no dispute that it owes them. From now on, what we can debate with you and that is why I direct it in advance is whether to extend the cover of the Guarantee Fund to the Guarantee Fund, on all the insurance companies operating in Bulgaria, because the current Insurance Code definitely limits to those under the license of the Bulgarian regulator. If we decide to expand it, it's a pretty unpleasant precedent if we're looking for this backwards. If we do not look back, however, I do not know how we will answer the question: how can these 9 million and something be recovered without being paid jointly by the Bulgarian taxpayer? But I'm ready to have this debate with you. I wanted to draw this conclusion in order to focus on where we are today in understanding what are the rights of those insured in "Olympic" and how we can resolve this issue. I pay attention again, I do not know whose fault it is, it is hardly the Financial Supervision Commission, but it should be clear to everyone that the insurance companies operating on our market without being licensed by the Bulgarian Financial Supervision Commission are not covered by the risk of inadequacy. They are not covered by the risk of inadequacy! The Bulgarian legislation has advanced in this direction and the proposed two years ago by Mrs. Agine Draft Law amending the Insurance Code provided for the creation of such a fund. However, in any case, it is limited to the bankruptcy of Bulgarian insurance companies. This is the comparative advantage, if we need to talk about economic appropriateness, this is the comparative advantage that should be told to Bulgarian citizens, between insurance companies under Bulgarian license and all others in the territory of the European Union who have access to our market automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I will subject the Project to a decision to take action in connection with the withdrawal of a license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company Olympic Insurance Co. Ltd. which was proposed by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 173 MPs: for 73, against 26, abstentioned 74. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision to take action in connection with the withdrawal of the license to carry out the insurance business of the Cypriot insurance company "Olympic Insurance Co Ltd" with importers Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Vote 171 MPs: 107 against 5, abstention 59. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Turnovallisky. Then there's Mr. Ermenkov, then there's Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u114	However, thank you, Madam President. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I do not understand why our proposal was not accepted and what is the problem, Minister, to accept... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u115	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u116	...to look for an opportunity to cover these obligations?! It is clear that everything is being done so that these 200,000 Bulgarian citizens who have been stung by this insurance company cannot understand for various reasons. That is why you have forbidden and did not accept a direct broadcast, but I would like to tell you that what you are doing today is very far from the dignified behavior of the Bulgarian parliamentarians. Madam President, instead of expecting the President of the C.F.R. with a decision of the National Assembly to bring us a report, she should have run with this report when the problem arose with you. And if she didn't, then you had to demand it, because the body that controls the work of the C.F.R. is the National Assembly. So today we are doing this extraordinary meeting to find out what the problems are, to ask for information and to seek a solution to the problems. And as the question of what we have actually solved today has been raised several times today, we are solving the problems of 200,000 Bulgarian citizens. How? By asking for information by asking for responsibility from the institution which represents the President, the Commission. And here we had to talk more about responsibility, even though some colleagues rejected it, the responsibility of the Commission! At the end of last year, when you changed the Law, you gave them the opportunity to make huge salaries higher than the President of the National Assembly, as was our proposal. Why? To take responsibility. Now, today they have the opportunity to take that responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Turnover, time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u118	...to be worthy, to be moral and to be responsible! So together with the report, the entire Financial Supervision Commission must deposit its resignation! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u119	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u120	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against, in particular, because of the first point of the majority decision adopted, because once again the state in the face of GERB's ruling abdicates from its obligations to guarantee the legitimate interests of the ordinary person, who an ordinary person has been loyal to the state and has fulfilled his obligations to it. Secondly, I voted against because once again the GERB government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the ruling majority are looking for a way to cloud their political responsibility for what happened, hiding behind a resignation of Ms. Ralitsa Again. Thirdly, because according to this decision, hiring a lawyer to protect the interests of the ordinary person, as you have decided to do, is practically a continuation of the policy of outsourcing constitutionally regulated state responsibilities towards the people. And I wouldn't be surprised if, in the course of this policy, you didn't outsource the entire executive government of the state. But whether you do it or not, I doubt it, but the people will outsource you, be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Gokov, come in for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u122	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Damyanova! I wanted to say why I voted against your bill, although it repeats 90% of our decisions, with the exception of the first point. Perhaps we should support your project, but it differs mainly from ours precisely by what is referred to at the first point in our project. Firstly, I voted against because the Bulgarian state obliges all Bulgarian citizens who drive motor vehicles to insure themselves to be insured. The same country in the face of the executive and legislative authorities places on the Bulgarian insurance market one, least to put it this strange company with a suspicious or vague owner. Bulgarians, of course, trust the state and are insured in this company. Then, in the incorrect attitude of this company to the insured in it, the state abdicated its obligations to help these people or to compensate them. I do not know what we can do more as a National Assembly than oblige the executive or through the Guarantee Fund to compensate these people. I would very much like to remind you of how you make the decisions. I'll remind you of June 30 last year when they protested. At our request, we proposed a solution to solving the problems of people with disabilities. You wrote a decision on your feet...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u123	Mr. Gokov, please, let's be on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u124	Last sentence. Then you rejected it with a single decision written by you, and that is why today is the problem of people with disabilities. This will be the case with the people who are insured in companies placed by you on the insurance market. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PRESENTLY TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MANDA OF THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION, THE REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT. She resigned from Mrs. Agyin: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, I am resigning as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Board of Insurance Supervision and, at the same time, I am presenting a report on the current situation, the legal framework and the actions of the Financial Supervision Commission so far in relation to the insurance company Olympik. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I will present to your attention: Project! DECISION on the early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of Insurance Supervision The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED Ends Ralitsa Nencheva Agajin Guri's early term of office as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: 138, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three of today's agenda: HEARING BY C.E.A. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA I give the floor to the proposer to make an exhibition within five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u126	Honourable President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mrs. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! As a responsible political force in the Bulgarian Parliament, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we were obliged to take advantage of our constitutional right to provoke the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Firstly, because the collapse of the Trade Register is an unprecedented crisis that has endangered the country's trade turnover and further aggravated the fragile confidence in our country's ability to build secure electronic governance. Secondly, due to the demonstrated and hardly explainable reluctance of the minister responsible "Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva," to clarify the situation, to explain what happened and to reassure traders, NGOs and citizens. The crisis is one thing, the reaction to the crisis is another. They're both in charge. Both remain unanswered questions. Since Ms. Tsacheva did not want to respond to them through the channels available to each minister, it is now time for the prime minister to respond through the channel that is accessible to the opposition, namely parliamentary control. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, we will expect in your presentation an answer to the following clear questions: how did it come to a collapse in the Trade Register? What is the specific reason for it? Have legal requirements and good practices for storing information, including in cases of accidents and malicious actions, been implemented? Is there a risk of loss of information or manipulation? Why can almost two weeks the functions of damaged registers not be fully restored? Is there a risk of the failure of other systems and electronic databases? Are you also aware of how you assess the effectiveness of the funds spent to create and maintain the defective system, including in the latest procurement for its upgrade? [[The Prime Minister spoke with the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] I don't know how the Prime Minister will be able to answer me if he doesn't hear the questions, but that might be another question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u127	Continue with the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u128	And last but not least, do you think that the question of responsibility has been exhausted with the resignation of Mrs. Zornitsa Daskalova, former Chairman of the Registry Agency, who, by the way, also raised new questions? In the reasons for her resignation, Ms. Daskalova spoke about political pressure in order to cover up the direct performers and those responsible for the collapse of the Trade Register. In summary, Mr. Prime Minister, who are the persons responsible for the collapse of the Trade Register and is there any experience with the resignation of the Chairman of the Registry Agency to cover them up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Dear Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u130	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, a little chronology, dear Mr. Zarkov. As of today, the Trade Register database was restored until 6 June 2018. It is now under way until 17 July 2018. A process of data recovery is under way as of August including, currently recovering data on 17 July, as I said. This is precisely the period for submitting the annual financial statements which are in the process of leakage. Once again, I stress that the data from the defective disks is successfully downloaded. The work to resume the functions of the Register has not stopped for a minute. The problems of their scale and the reasons for the failure of the Trade Register were known in the first 24 hours after the collapse of the database. This is evident from the history of the events of August 9th. Since then, the work to resume the functionality of the Register has not stopped for a minute. On August 9th, Thursday, in the period 17,37 "17.44 p.m., three disks failed consistently. On August 6th, he had already faulted one disc from another group on the same array, but until the backup and production database collapsed, it was the defecting of the three disks in an extremely short time. The company responsible for maintenance is informed immediately about the problem. That very same evening, the nature of the problems with the disks was identified and the diagnosis was made: the databases are in a non-workable state, and as of August 10th, Friday, action has already been taken to recover. In the early hours of August 10th, Friday, after guidance and under the guidance of the experts of the maintenance company, experts of the Registry Agency successfully rearrange the disks in the configuration, but the database does not read them. Subsequently, additional competent IT experts, all companies supporting the database, as well as external consultants, experts in the field, have been mobilized in urgent order. Including Japan, we've brought in a specialist. Thanks to what he's doing right now, I just said that by July 17th everything has been restored. The efforts had subsequently escalated to the highest management level of the device manufacturer company. She provided highly qualified specialists who were sent to Bulgaria to support the IT teams on site. In the overall action to resume the Trade Register, all available expertise has been mobilised, which has worked to build the system by the Registry Agency. In the early afternoon of August 10th, at 14.00 p.m., the operational headquarters for the resolution of the problem is already working with its full capacity, including the Minister of Justice, representatives of SANS and DGBOP in the work of the operational group. The first report on the situation by the IT department of the Registry Agency was delivered on Friday morning and refers to the hardware collapse of the database in the Commercial Register. The emergency plan for the restoration of the Trade Register has been activated and the activities of the Trade Register have been reported every 30 minutes. An operational headquarters was formed at the next level under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev with the participation of the Minister of Justice, employees of the National Security Agency, the State Agency of Electronic Governance and other IT specialists for decision making outside the competence of the Registry Agency. The headquarters held a number of meetings on Saturday and Sunday as well as in the coming days. Operating at the highest level shall coordinate activities to restore the functionality of the register on the basis of reports of expert teams working on the ground. A detailed plan has been developed on Saturday with three main directions to restore the Trade Register, to restore the disks, to restore the database of bands, to restore the partial functionality of the register, which give opportunities for consultation of EGN and EIT, and to restore the connection between registration exchange. All three directions are on strict recovery deadlines. The initial deadlines set for the restoration of functionality have been objective since Wednesday, 15 August 2018, and the next day the references to the EIC have been restored. All activities in all directions and at each stage shall be carried out under the direct supervision of staff of the specialised bodies. To date, we can say that the crisis is over. I have the assurances of the State Agency that we will have a fully functional Trade Register by the end of the week. The effort won't stop on Wednesday. They asked not to put so much pressure on the specialists so that it wouldn't happen at some point, you see, the information changes in minutes, let them work for a day or two so that they can finish it. We are also convinced that the highest standards for network and information security should be maintained and this remains a first priority in the future. Of course, this will also require additional resources - personnel and financial resources - which will be the result of a thorough analysis after the law enforcement authorities complete their work and the guilty - and the causes of this crisis are finally established. As regards the preliminary measures of the Ministry of Justice to ensure the work and security of information in the Trade Register, I am informed of the following: On 26 September 2017, the Minister of Justice was informed by the Executive Director of the Registry Agency, providing an analytical report drawn up by.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It makes recommendations to ensure a stable and seamless operation of the system of the Trade Register, which essentially repeat the audit of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, prepared in 2015. Minister Tsacheva recommended that the prescriptions be implemented as soon as possible by the Executive Director of the Registry Agency. In support of these measures, funding was also provided and the Registry Agency entered into a contract on 14 December 2017 with Telelink Business Services (EAD) worth 3 million. 687 thousand. BGN 405. to extend the capacity of service information systems, including the Trade Register. The above funds, after the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, were provided through accreditation at the end of 2017. In addition, additional capital expenditure funds were provided in 2017 through internal compensation in the Agency's budget. On 3 May 2018, the Registry Agency entered into a contract with the company "Lireks BG" Ltd for subscription support of the systems in the Commercial Register. Under the contract, the company has undertaken to ensure the security and smooth functioning of the register. The Ministry did not receive any signals of problems in fulfilling the obligations of the contract company. Signals concerning the Agency's work have been checked by the Ministry Inspectorate and specific recommendations have been given for the implementation of the Director of the Agency. What's next? Currently, the process of creating backups of data from the system and registers is an internal procedure for each administration. The backup copies shall be stored in the infrastructure of the administration itself. The availability of a reliable and secure backup of systems and registers data is key to ensuring the continuity of the functioning of key schemes and systems for government registers. The following is therefore taken: First, by 31 August 2018, the administrative authorities must draw up and send to the State Agency the electronic management procedures developed and implemented by them to create backup data from critical systems and registers. Secondly, we are currently working on implementing a data protection and storage plan for critical systems and registers in the Republic of Bulgaria by creating a repository for backups of critical systems and electronic management registers. The plan will be implemented by upgrading the existing infrastructure in the main electronic management data centre for secure storage of backups of critical systems and registers data; maintaining backups of critical systems and registers and storing them in storage facilities by the responsible administrative authorities. Third, increasing the personal capacity of the single electronic communications network in order to reduce the time to update the backups of critical systems and registers data and develop back-up procedures in the repository by administrative authorities. Next, the administrative authorities, primary administrators of critical systems and registers, organise the creation of backup data copies and their encryption. The State Agency shall, by 3 September 2018, carry out an analysis of potential risks with regard to transmission capacity, including the connectivity of primary administrators of critical registers, and prepare a plan to secure the necessary capacity to operate the repository with a time limit for realization no later than 30 September 2018. With me is Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, who headed the headquarters all these days, for answers and more details, as well as the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva, if you have any questions in this area. And to conclude with the previous point that we talked about, I am nevertheless addressing the Financial Commission of the Parliament, to all political parties through our Finance Minister to make a working group. We are not opposed, I explicitly emphasise what BSP is proposing to help citizens because of what has happened to them, but in parallel to making a change in the law, to have reason to do so. I appeal to you with the truest intention of not talking about things just in front of the audience that they like, but of trying not to get that from now on, at the same time, to see what we can do with an old date. Otherwise, I can bring Mr. Gechev back to 1996, I can bring him back to 1996 what they did to the banks and to KTB, how the ministries drew their money in the last week [[Applause from GERB]] But it's not productive, it doesn't make sense. I take it as an opposition, you have to say things against the government, it's in the game. But based on what we've decided today, let's try to get better results. What's being done in electronic control, cyber defense, the more we upload things to these electronic clouds, the more we progress, the more it's happening now, at least what I have as information, the more the disks just fuck up. However, we will certainly then be subjected to both hacking attacks and maliciousness and intent. So I accept the Agency's guilt on the part of the firm, if you will. What's important is that we don't let any more of this crash into another system. In other places, you remember, there was a development of a worm. That's when they dealt with her. But it came as a result of the fact that they had tried precisely to see how well I was and favored to upload the information to another disk. If they had just done that, there might have been a question: why are you downloading parallel information? So this is the time to defend ourselves against such malicious influences in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u131	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, you know that the hearing procedure allows each parliamentary group to ask two questions. Mr. Kirilov, do you have a procedure? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the first question from the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u132	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, honourable Members! Thank you for the information you presented to our attention. I believe that it adequately and accurately reflects the actions taken and that they have led to the recovery result, despite all the challenges. My question, and that is why I wanted to procedurally put this problem, is actually to the Minister of Justice, if he also wishes Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and preferred to answer. This question concerns the following. I will not go into a detailed description of what is the information system, how the Trade Register appeared, what is its stability over the past ten years. Only one clamp will open in the meantime, while the Prime Minister is still here. I would like to assure him that the Committee on Legal Affairs of Parliament has always discussed with priority the bills that concern legal amendments to the Commercial Register Act and the Legal Commission will continue with this work. [[Replying, noise.]] I suppose colleagues from the Budget and Finance Committee will also take this into account for the next budgetary year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u133	The question, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u134	I'm getting to the point. In the exhibition was mentioned two analytical reports, investigations about the state of the system, one from 2015 and the other that was last year. My question is this: on the report that was at the Ministry of Justice in 2015, did the respected colleague Hristo Ivanov take any action? What action did he take, and where did it come from?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u135	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u136	Thank you, Mr. Yankov, for reminding me of the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u138	It's the Prime Minister's hearing, not the Minister of Justice's.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u139	The Prime Minister has invited with him the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Prime Minister so that they can enter the specific because the Prime Minister answers questions on the common policy. To be more specific, Mrs. Tsacheva and Mr. Tomislav Donchev are here. Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Kirilov, yes, in 2015, May, a preliminary audit was presented to the Ministry of Justice, prepared by the Minister of Justice on the risks in the systems of the Registry Agency. It's mainly about the Trade Register. You know that this agency operates with three more registers, and there are four registers in total. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u141	Mrs. Tsacheva, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats and be quiet! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u142	Under the preliminary audit, the Minister has established a working group of experts, IT specialists of the Registry Agency. There have been remarks on some of the proposals in the audit, but overall risks have been identified, individualised, after which the information I have is public, it is on the Registry Agency's website where the annual reports of the Executive Director are stored and located. It is obliged under the Commercial Register Act, and now for non-profit legal entities, where it specifically describes what the condition is. There is the report as of 2015, 2016 that the information is stored according to the rules in two places... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u143	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u144	...divided, not to each other in general, so as to ensure the security of this information. At the time when I perform the minister's function, yes, it was mentioned by the Prime Minister, on 26 September, the Executive Director applied to me an analytical report from the company "Siensis" which identified six specific IT issues related to the security of the information system as a whole in the Registry Agency and relevant in particular to the Trade Register. After receiving an opinion from the relevant Directorate in the Ministry of Justice, I strongly supported the six proposals made, which are repeated on the content of the proposals in the 2015 audit. Indeed, I have ordered the Executive Director to implement them as soon as possible, as it is also about providing funds, as well as organizational work on the construction of systems as recommended by the Ciensis company. The prime minister's report said that at the end of the year, a contract was signed with Telelink to supply equipment worth three million and six hundred thousand with VAT. Consequently, the specific service contract of the Commercial Register is under public procurement. As of 3 May this contract is a fact and is with the company Telelink. It clearly and categorically describes what the company's obligations are. I hope you're not asking me exactly how the individual hardware, software and so on components of the system functioned. I'd like to answer that, but I don't have that competence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u146	Madam President, first of all, a procedure in the manner of conduct before I begin. Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Prime Minister, colleagues! If memory serves me right, according to what is written and voted today in the Chamber we have a hearing of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the grounds of art. 113. The question I want to ask and ask is to Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u147	Please invite the Quaestors to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u148	I didn't come here today to ask the questions to Mr. Donchev and Mrs. Tsacheva. Please stop so Mr. Borisov can come and ask the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u149	Mr. Borisov will be here any minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u150	Well, let's wait till I don't ask the question, 'cause he still needs to hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u151	Yeah, hold on. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Skip your turn, I'll give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u152	No, no. We are not talking about the lack of order here, we are talking about keeping the agenda that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u153	The agenda has been adopted...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u154	Read it carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u155	I've read it carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u156	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u157	We're expecting Mr. Borisov any minute now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u158	With respect to the Deputy Prime Minister and Mrs. Tsacheva, they are not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u159	Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u160	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! My objection to the procedure, the Prime Minister presented to your attention his report and all the factual circumstances. The Prime Minister answers questions concerning the common policy. This is why Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and the Minister of Justice are present in the Chamber. I believe that I addressed my questions correctly to them because they contain the specifics and specifics that correspond to their competences in Constitution, by law, by decision of the Council of Ministers and by order of the Prime Minister. It's too much to require and theatricalize such a hearing. If you really want to hear the facts and circumstances, let us ask the ministers and ask them to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I, too, just now stressed that under art. 98, para. 3 questions and questions concerning the common policy are addressed to the Prime Minister, and the presence of Mrs. Tsacheva... [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . Colleagues, please remain silent, the Prime Minister is in the Chamber. He's also in the National Assembly building! Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u162	Colleagues, I just want to say that I accidentally gave the firm a different name. The company that signed the contract of 3 May is "Lirex." Now I'm told that Telelink is the company that delivers the equipment in a signed contract from December. But in order for there to be no doubt, I have admitted the lapsus company that currently serves is called Lirex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u163	Thank you for your clarification, Mrs. Tsacheva. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have spoken for quite a long time, in detail, and during that time you gave a tribune. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.)]] You call me to parliament, the point is a hearing of the Prime Minister, and during the hearing of Prime Minister You, BSP, give yourself a tribune. And now you're going back to ask me the same questions again, given that with all due respect, I've said whatever it takes. I've been here an hour. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev as head of headquarters and knowing all the details is here, the Minister of Justice, who knows the other details and is responsible, is here and you are beginning to theatrical: You were giving a tribune. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u165	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u166	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Borisov, my apologies, but I was in the hall waiting. I didn't give a tribune. [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] That's enough, Prime Minister. Thank you for coming back to the gym to hear the question. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The questions are extremely important and they are of your competence, so we ask them, so let's have mutual respect. Mr. Borisov, without repeating everything that has been said, the situation with the Trade Register is unprecedented for our country. The crisis with the collapse of the information system is undoubtedly particularly significant for both the business and national security of the country, which is beyond doubt. I won't dwell on the technical part. What is important to us in this case is: what has contributed to the problem from a purely management point of view; what actions should the Agency and the Ministry of Justice take, and that there is sufficient information and data that has also been received by the Registry Office employees, what is going on there? I would like to ask you, Mr. Borisov, and I assume that you are already familiar with the Inspectorate's report of 28 February, which says that there are serious violations in the Registry Agency carried out by the Director, who has already been released. The most interesting thing is that the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, who is under your authority, amnesty the lady in question and says that this report of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice is irrelevant and cannot be punished under the Labour Code. My question is: in what way and why did Mrs. Tsacheva, who is your minister, not take part in this report, and in what way and why did the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, under your leadership, amnest the lady in question? Apparently there's a systematic failure. You yourself said that since 2015, there has been an audit report, which has now been confirmed by another firm. Nothing's been done. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If this report had been addressed here, the lady should have been released.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u167	Your time, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u168	You've given a little more to the guy, ma'am, so just give me a minute. The most important question, Mr. Borisov, is: is leaving Mrs. Daskalova enough because it is unclear who will take the political responsibility? This is the most important question: who will take the political responsibility for what happened?! Because right now we're talking about technical stuff. Which hard drive burned, who didn't burn, Mrs. Daskalova released...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u170	We have a report on which, for months, from February 28th, no one has paid attention. If he had been paid attention and the guilty person had taken responsibility, now this case wouldn't be standing here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u171	We understand your question, thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u172	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, on the alert of a former member of the Registry Agency, who, with her own volition, left work at the Agency, the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice has carried out an examination of the specific topics in the complaint of the lady who made the call. The Ministry's Inspectorate's signal ends with three mandatory instructions to the Executive Director. Point one. During the verification, some of the personal files were found to have been in the Executive Director's office. Staff records shall be kept in the service unit.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The second recommendation to suspend the practice created by the Executive Director, with one specific letter, for which I will explain in detail a little later. The third, to take measures and actions to announce a competition for the borrowing of vacant posts for registration officials. These are the three recommendations to the Executive Director of the Agency. There is also a proposal to me as Minister to seek disciplinary responsibility of Zornitsa Daskalova, Executive Director of the Registry Agency according to certain points of the Code, as this has been the practice until now in the Inspectorate and in previous mandates. During and other executives of the Agency there were such proposals. It is absolutely not true that I did not respond to the proposal made by the Inspectorate. In accordance with the procedure under the Labour Code, I have requested written explanations from Mrs. Daskalova. Within that period, however, it contests the report of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice to the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, which in turn comes up with three recommendations to the work of the Inspectorate of the Ministry and explicitly states that although the relationship is governed by the Labour Code, executive directors of the executive agencies, as part of the persons in the Law on Administration, are subject to another order and they should not be subject to disciplinary liability. It turns out that what I could have done without having such an indication, but according to your claims, it was me who terminated Mrs. Daskalova's contract as CEO. And now let's see why? First, the Inspectorate found several personnel files in her office during the inspection. Are you saying that a head, whatever unit he is, has no opportunity from the....................................... to request an employee file in his office and that in any case the head of the structure concerned must go up to the office of the.......................... This is the first recommendation which, naturally, after the mandatory instructions given, has been removed. The second is to suspend the practice created by the Executive Director of the Agency in a letter referring to hospital sheets. Dear Members of the National Assembly, do you remember the month of June 2017 and the queues that were hovering before the Registry Agency when the financial statements were to be submitted and when the citizens did not trust the information system? Many of them were going and lining up in these queues, and at this very critical moment, an unjustified amount of hospital sheets are being placed in the Agency. Each of you, who has also been an administrative manager, knows that it is normal to request information from the direct director of the Directorate as to whether this hospital list should be challenged. Personally, I've led several of these files to challenge hospital records. This is the second proposal, the second mandatory instruction to Mrs. Daskalova. And the third was: to take measures and actions to announce a competition for the vacant posts for registration officials. Yeah, well, with the Rules of Procedure, there's a set of numbers. The procedure for this contest is underway. So all three prescriptions, mandatory instructions that the Inspectorate has made, have been removed. If you consider that an administrative head is to be held at the moment when order and organisation is to be created for the adoption of the new financial statements, for which there were no queues this year, because such order and such an organisation was created when public procurement is being carried out.................................................................. is to ensure the security of the systems not only of the Commercial Register, there is also the Property Register, BULSTAT and so on the basis of these three specific instructions from the Inspector should be terminated, I do not think so. I haven't had a signal of failure by the Executive Director with those processes that were important, priority. By this I do not want to say that the implementation of regulations, internal regulations is not important, but, understand, each check ends with any guidance and suggestions, and.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. First question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? You won't have a question. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No question. From the parliamentary group of Volya? No question. We continue with the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u174	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and Minister of Justice! A lot of things have been said and a lot of data has been exported, a lot has been said in the last few days. What is more important, however, is that I ask the competent representatives of the executive: about the company "Lireks" because it was mentioned a lot. I would like to ask if the company is strictly implementing the contract that it has with the relevant institutions in Bulgaria? Because this is another problem that arises, like the problems that are related to the Ministry of Interior in the years when this company was imposed, from the period 2007 by the then chief of the cabinet of Rumen Petkov "Alexander Petrov." Alexander Petrov is a senior functionary of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and colleagues from BSP know it very well. [[GERB's line: "Ah so! "]] And if we asked how the video surveillance was done, how it started and how it was started in 2007, it was with the very explicit instructions that were given to win the Note, however, what happens when operating, which then had to be taken over by the Ministry of Interior: the interface was closed, which did not allow to upgrade this system and be able to participate other companies, but it just always remains constant as a business and as an opportunity of only one company. I am convinced that the same thing has happened in the Registry Agency, because from the data that have brought into the public space many institutions and non-governmental organizations, I would like to ask: is it true that it is established that the company "Lirex" before the incident has united the disk array of the main server on which a database of the Commercial Register is stored with the disk array on the reserve server? Because, honourable Members, this merger of the arrays has led to an absolute inability to take action to restore the database at the time the system was shut down from the backup server. I believe that here, amongst all that is spoken and spoken, I do not know if, Prime Minister, this is not some deliberate sabotage by someone who would really like to create problems in the country. [[Applause from GERB]] , and may we say today that the government or the Minister of Justice is responsible for this. [[The President reminds us that the time has passed.]] Therefore, I believe that the competent authorities should rule out and conduct a comprehensive analysis of all projects that have been implemented. [[BSP's comments for Bulgaria. Applause from GERB]] , and whether there is really only one single company to continue operating the given projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u176	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, it will be difficult for me to present to you at the moment a detailed reference to all contracts that are in execution mode by the company in question. I undertake to make a written commitment very quickly, too, including the status of execution of each contract. With regard to the specific question, you will allow me to spend one minute of valuable parliamentary time, again entering technical details, which will clearly illustrate the genesis of the problem. By requirements, by regulation, and by best information security practices, when we have such a critical register, the information is recorded simultaneously on two servers. Even good practices suggest that these servers are physically remote, geographical, sometimes tens or hundreds of miles apart. Similarly, the system was organised or configured in the Registry Agency. Here the critical question is very close to the one you ask: why didn't the system in question work that way? Because if there would be a collapse in the disk space of one server, the system would work without being felt by the user because every recording is done mirrorly on one and the other server. A question that I find very difficult to answer at the moment: technical defect, mass failure of servers or poor configuration of the system? Both are possible, including the second. In such a case, responsibility must be borne by those who have configured the system in such a way. Of course, irregularities or any speculation about whether there is an option to recover the information? Colleagues, information is a fact. At least two alternative ways to recover the information. The first way is through the tape archive, which further records everything from the Trade Register. The big problem is that physically downloading the information from the tapes and transferring the disk takes time. The second is: by trying to recover the information from the defective disks themselves, which is currently running. Here special thanks should be given to the manufacturer. I'm not gonna tell you who the company is. It does not normally provide a service related to the recovery of information from a defective disc. They said: we manufacture disks, we cannot recover the information. After a deliberate request from the government on a diplomatic channel about how important and critical the situation is, such assistance has been given to us. Their best engineers are here, working, and I hope it works within the week. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, if we go this way, I don't say whether we do or not, it doesn't matter in this case. You see in the United States a year and a half, now two are only dealing with how the cyber attack is influenced by the elections in a country where I think there is no doubt, at least I know from my experience that there are two of these countries in Russia, and in the States where the services are at an extreme level. There must be others, they're not bad, but I think there's no doubt about these two. You can see that even countries with the most advanced democracies such as the Netherlands have given up electronic voting. I would like to ask the MPs from GERB not to raise this topic any more today, because in the last few days, and also what lies ahead for us in the next two or three days, we expect from If we put the debate into this, yes, it can be very beneficial for us and we reject the guilt, and we are guilty through the Agency, which was the job they could have duly written, taken reports, and the paradox, and the most unpleasant thing is that is whether or not this is the right solution? But some system or law that allows us for these extremely sensitive systems to have a law or a public contract, or parliament, if it has to do so, to be able to protect them and not enter into the hands of any firm, however important, large or good, or to be completely subjugated afterwards in the management. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, if you will, through service. Again, I am well-meaning and I believe that today's sitting has contributed. If we can get out of it with similar decisions or in the coming days we can get out because more and more customs, DANS, the D.A.'s office, the court, besides a bunch of other registers, is uploaded to electronic media, their protection, their guarantee, this warehouse and their database, their re-entry into secret centers that we can't give to any company or just so know. However, the state should have some secrets to legitimize and be known by parliament, but to have this protection. So please, we're doing everything we can. Let our colleagues, experts, IT specialists, who are both abroad and from the Lyreks are working, not to shake them now with such speeches, because I really believe that if they build on, as they say, 10 minutes of information is uploaded by the end of the week, if we are lucky, we can have a register and think from now on about how we can not allow it anymore. Because sooner or later, it's gonna happen again if we don't take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u179	Thank you, Prime Minister. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u180	Thank you, Madam President. I hope you'll be as generous to me in the three minutes as you are to the pre-talker.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u181	I was very generous to Mr. Ivanov, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u182	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister! The bad maintenance of the electronic systems is among the reasons why the collapse, as we have heard from you, of the Trade Register. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev scarcely hinted a few days ago that it was about defective hard drives, which you have now confirmed several times. A few months ago, however, from this tribune, a MP from GERB claimed that electronic control was not computers, it was not the purchase of computers, but quite other processes. However, it seems now that you are preparing to throw the responsibility for the collapse of the electronic system of the Trade Register precisely on computers and disks. For each student in the first year of the Technical University, however, it is definitely clear that in order for such a collapse of an electronic system to occur, the internationally established rules of network information security were systematically neglected. I am sure that you are aware that for each information infrastructure, the state must take measures to ensure sustainability, continuity of work processes and disaster recovery. If these measures have been taken, the probability of such a technical incident as you inform us of is practically and theoretically to zero. However, assuming that such a technical problem is possible, then Regulation No 1 in such a situation is to put into effect Reserve Plan B. Of course, there must first be one. I would remind you that at the beginning of the year, at the initiative of the BSP parliamentary group, a debate was held in the National Assembly on the policy of the cabinet for the construction of electronic governance and BSP asked Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to prepare a detailed plan for the construction of electronic governance, to give a complete scheme for financing the activities for the construction of electronic governance. This proposal was rejected by GERB, obviously so that the uncontrolled spending of public money on poorly working electronic registers and information systems could continue. If there was such a plan, it would probably include a plan to assist the administration authorities in handling computer incidents. In fact, the directives and standards for managing information security in the construction and upgrade of the Trade Register may have been included as recommendations in the relevant public procurements, but their implementation remains categorically questionable. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I note that the company, which currently maintains the register, maintains the electronic systems of at least another 50 state and municipal administrations and can safely be defined as structurally defining in relation to national information security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u183	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u184	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u185	There's no time for that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u186	What's the situation with the hard drives on their systems?! And here is the question: in this regard, are we interested in an analysis that you can provide us now, for the reasons for the collapse of the Trade Register, for the damage done, including business and on the already fragile trust in central administration systems, and for the measures to be taken to prevent such incidents? Because personally, it seems to me that only building, as you said, of a data warehouse is just another patch in the non-existent electronic control. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u187	Thank you, Mr. Danchev, I hope you'll appreciate my generosity. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u188	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, regarding the specific technical reasons, as I said, we are talking about defective disk devices. We'll get into the details. Fortunately, the very recording device that brings the information is not the motor, not the reader, not the controller, not the electronics, the recording device itself is stored. As they say, it's not burnt. For this reason, in the intervention of a service engineer by the manufacturer company is currently being read the information from the disks themselves. This one, first. Secondly, if we didn't follow the rules of information security, we couldn't recover the information. I note once again that even if reading the information from the disks hadn't happened, we have a tape archive. This is fully following information security rules. The important question here is whether these rules that we have at the moment are sufficient. Apparently not. Obviously not! Once the information is stored on a mirror server, the second one is stored on archive. Obviously not enough. For the same reason, we will introduce another, third way of securitising the information, depending on the frequency at which the information is refreshed in the relevant register, they will have an obligation to store it in a central repository. It's centrally conditional, no one said it would be on just one location. Within an open session, there is no way to comment on the number of locations and their geographical coordinates. One principle question, honourable Members: is there or is no e-government? It's obvious there is, because if there isn't, there's no way there's going to be a failure in his systems! After all, if everything were on paper, there wouldn't be such a problem. This shows how much more vulnerable we become when we migrate from the registers, they, by the way, in the country are about 17 thousand each of the registers, when we migrate to an electronic database, and from a breakdown in technology, and from a virus, and the most frightening of malicious interference. Unfortunately, despite the controversy which is the e-government, the cables, computers, disks, software and so on, the harsh truth is that we will have to spend more money, including cybersecurity. I don't know if the collapse of the register is unprecedented. There was a similar case in Germany last year. In a country overseas, there were attempts to shut down electricity. This is the threat of this century and we need to be smart and, unfortunately, we need to invest more money. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There is no question from the United Patriarchs. DPS has no question. There's no question. We're closing the questioning procedure. The parliamentary groups now have the opportunity to take account within 5 minutes of the hearing. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u190	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister of Justice, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that today's debate has indeed been useful in terms of seeing what the actions taken by the institutions are, and in fact the best news we have heard today is that we have the opportunity to reproduce and restore all the lost information that was found a few days ago. The most important thing is that at the moment information is received, the relevant competent authorities of the executive have taken appropriate measures and an operational headquarters has been established, where the relevant conclusions and recommendations have been taken daily and on an hourly basis and the relevant actions have been taken. I am convinced that, out of all that has been said, it is very important that each of us draw the appropriate conclusions and be very careful and very precise when someone wants to bring out a political shareholder............................................................................is not to the detriment of the state in order to satisfy any personal political interests? I believe that we should be outside parties when we talk about institutions and about arrays that store information about the entire Bulgarian population. That is why I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his time, to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, to Minister Tsacheva for the efforts made to be able to actually be restored with the companies and organisations that are directly related to the recovery of information. However, at the same time, the recommendation we are making from the parliamentary group is that all these job performers be as precise as possible so that we do not get into a situation where there is a centre in Shumen that needs to be with the relevant information stored, that information is there and that we are looking for emergency exits so that we can fill in the lost information. I thank everyone who participated actively today, and I am convinced that after today's debate, both the executive power and the legislative, where necessary, we will take additional measures. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. You are welcome to take an attitude on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u192	My fellow Members, I would have praised the Prime Minister for staying so long and for the rest of the session, he tried to disprove this praise, so I will not do it. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] He left. He couldn't last the last few minutes. But you, honourable colleagues of GERB and ministers, are here and I hope you will answer the following question: are you familiar with this? We will strengthen the confidence of citizens and businesses in the use of e-services... We have put the user in the focus of e-government............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That must be familiar to you! It's still in your party program. What if you forgot it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u193	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u194	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u195	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u196	Instead, today we have been listening all day about the collapsed disks or other expression used by the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, you have major problems in the ruling coalition, which always justify that you have a Management Program and it is implemented. Yes, there were peculiarities between the partners, but still the Management Program is being implemented. How exactly do you, respectable, perform the following:..Provide effective electronic administrative services for citizens and businesses and the implementation of complex administrative services................................................................................................................................................... I am already quoting here the government's management program. The first conclusion we draw from today's debate, including. Dear ruling and main party in the government "GERB," you do not implement your party program and the management one, that is, you lied to the Bulgarian voters and did not fulfill what you won them with in these elections. Secondly, we talked about many details of the hospital books, files, files, state figures, no one told the Bulgarian society and Bulgarian citizens how much the Bulgarian economy lost these days since the collapse in the Commercial Register, how much the Bulgarian business lost.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u197	He didn't lose anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u198	Did you lose something to the treasury?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u199	You didn't lose anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u200	This was supposed to be the real analysis of the situation, not the justifications for technical details. By the way, I hope Mr. Borisov, when he gets back to the Council of Ministers, will fire his Chief Inspectorate, because we learned from Mrs. Tsacheva that the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers had exonerated Mrs. Daskalova, who she should have wanted to punish in February, and perhaps it wouldn't have come to this. Did you hear what Mrs. Tsacheva said? I took measures, but the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers cancelled this?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u201	You're lying right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u202	Dear colleagues, these are the details and the technical side. I think there are two major problems and they are essential for the systems in Bulgaria in general. The first is a lack of trust. Whatever you do, people do not believe that behind the collapse of the Trade Register there is no intention when you recover to have deleted data, deleted debts, companies. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] They don't believe you! [[Radio.]] That's the big challenge. That is why GERB and this government of GERB are the most guilty. Mr. Tsvetanov, go back to 1996! Mr. Borisov is back in 2007. You've been ruling for the last 10 years! [[GERB lines.]] Ten years! The main fault is that you have brought down the institutions, statehood and the big problem in front of all of us, in front of the political class of Bulgaria is the lack of trust in the institutions in the people! Nobody believes there was a plague! No one believes you that behind the Trade Register you won't hide anything! Nobody believes you that there's no bullshit behind the Olympics! That's the problem, not the technical details. How to return this trust?! The second problem is that when someone tells you that in your eyes, you immediately target him as a saboteur, a coup d'état, an outlaw who wants to bring down the legitimate government. I mean, you shut everyone up. This is the other major problem facing the state, statehood and modern Bulgarian society. The only solution to these two problems would be if, before leaving the building today, Mr. Borisov had deposited the resignation of the government in the National Assembly. [[Loud laughter, noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u203	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ninova! You raised all political questions, I will try to answer you technically. First, how did it disappear or change information in a system that is public, and each interested party has the authentic interest to watch over the information that is there? You can replace something in a system that isn't public. In a public system, that's impossible. One second, another technical question, he's close to the subject. You probably know what hyperlink is. This is an opportunity part of one text to refer to another part of another text and this is quite in the context of the topic. It's nice and it's nice to look for information. There are other kinds of hyperlinks. Experiences from scars, facts and events to create a story other than objective, than the real one. I don't know if you've read a magnificent book called Fuco's Mahalo. This kind of experience doesn't end in a good way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-08-21.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, thank you for today's participation of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev and the Minister of Justice. Thanks to all your colleagues. The next plenary session shall be held on 4 September 2018 at 1300 hours. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
