ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I will introduce you to the proposal for the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 16 May to 18 May 2018: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. The representatives of the People's Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. 2. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act. Importer of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. 3. Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria and draft decision on the report. Importer of the requested committee. 4. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer Gergana Stefanova. 5. A bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. The representatives of the National Assembly Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov, Ivo Hristov and Danail Kirilov. 7. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2017. Importer "Commission for Protection against Discrimination." It is proposed to be point one for Thursday. 8. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote proposals a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 16 May 2018. They voted 171 MPs: 125, against 2, abstention 44. The offer is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We believe that in such a tense and crisis situation as is in the transport sector, it is normal for Bulgarian MPs to know what is happening and what action the Bulgarian government takes to reduce tensions. The mass protests of the Bulgarian carriers are expected tomorrow. We are talking about over a hundred thousand Bulgarian households who are actually threatened by bankruptcy. Given this difficult situation, we have already warned since yesterday that we will want the Prime Minister to come to the Bulgarian Parliament and explain what his strategy is for the resolution of this problem. This isn't about nagging. It is about concern for the Bulgarian carriers, because what greater help can a prime minister have when he receives the full and full support of the Bulgarian Parliament when he is facing meetings with the European leaders, especially with French President Macron? We believe that these are actions that must be taken in a parliamentary republic. There is hardly anything more important than to clear the fear of Bulgarian citizens. This is not a question of the fact that we are almost embarrassing ourselves. I think it's not about embarrassing yourself in front of foreigners, it's scary when you embarrass yourself in front of your own people. So let's unite, let's listen to the Prime Minister, even talk about a hearing about his steps, actions and intentions, the way and policy that the Bulgarian government will conduct to protect this particular sector. Because the danger of him disappearing is very, very great. Let us, as we were united on Friday, hear from the Prime Minister today in view of the important meetings ahead of him. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We have already demonstrated the support of both the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian carriers. It will be handed over to Mr. Borisov. There is a proposal based on art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), as a point in the National Assembly Programme for the period 16 to 18 May 2018 to include the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the aim of our proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code is the introduction of enhanced protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens in cases of violation of the legal requirements relating to medicinal products from human medicine. We are all witnessing mass cases of uncontrolled imports, exports and commercialisation of medicines that are public and which do not have an adequate reaction by the state, require the adoption of the proposed criminal rules. It is obvious that only the administrative criminal liability provided for in special laws is not sufficient and cannot achieve the necessary results. This is what the chief prosecutor of the Republic Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov said. At the same time, the provisions of the Penal Code provide for criminal compositions related to illegal activities, food, drink, veterinary medicinal products, even those that violate the ozone layer, but not when it is related to medicines. We all pretend that we don't notice over the years that there are no life-saving medicines from the network and we say, "This can't happen to us. That is why our bill aims at filling this gap in criminal law protection and the creation of instruments of state response with the power of penal repression when illegal activities are carried out that directly endanger human health. First of all, we offer when this is particularly large. Secondly, criminalise the production, import, export, storage, wholesale and retail of medicinal products in human medicine. Our understanding is that while such an approach is justified in terms of food and drink...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u5	Dr. Timchev, excuse me, but we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u6	I'm done. ..that in medicine any activity in violation of the law by definition endangers people's lives and health. Rethink your decision and support our bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u7	Thank you. I will put to the vote the proposal of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" in the National Assembly Work Programme to include the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code. Vote 182 MPs: 86 against 28, abstention 68. The proposal for inclusion on the agenda shall not be accepted. Bills and draft Decisions entered into force from 9 May to 15 May 2018, including: A bill to amend and supplement the Religion Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activity of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2017. Import is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Boriana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Decision on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria and a report of the Temporary Commission. Importer is the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. The representatives of the National Assembly are Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. The people's representative Christian Mitev and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to amend and supplement the Gambling Act. The people's representative Christian Mitev and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer is the national representative Gergana Stefanova. The National Statistical Institute received information on indexes of turnover in the Section of "Retail trade without trade in cars and motorcycles" in March 2018: Indexes of industrial production in March 2018; Indexes of construction production in March 2018; Employed persons and average gross wage in the first quarter of 2018; Inflation and indexes of consumer prices in April 2018; Main results of labour force monitoring in the first quarter of 2018; Gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2018 on express estimates. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. The people's representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs are importing. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs for First Voting will present Mr. Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-33, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2018. At its meeting held on 9 May 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-33, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Hristina Deneva, Head of the Department of Law and Methodology at the Directorate of Metodology and Law and by the Commission for Protection of Competition Mrs. Daniela Georgieva, expert. The bill was presented by the MP Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it proposed changes in the appeal proceedings for public procurement under Chapter Twenty-Seven of the Public Procurement Act and added that the changes sought a balance between the interests of the participants in the public procurement appeal procedure. The draft is aimed at overcoming the established practices of unduely targeted appeal without grounds and abuse of the right to appeal, resulting in a real damage to the interests of the contracting entity by the timely execution of contracts and preventing the absorption of funds from the European funds. In this regard, liability for damage caused when there is abuse of the right to appeal shall also be introduced. The changes shall contain increased requirements for the props of the complaint and the evidence to it by introducing the means of summoning and serving communications via an e-mail address and a fax. In order to synchronise and optimize the work of the registers of the Public Procurement Agency and the Commission for Protection of Competition, it is intended to indicate in the complaint a unique contract identification number from the Register of Public Procurement, in order to overcome the filing of blanquet complaints against the decisions of contracting entities, including those against the choice of contractor, an obligation for applicants to justify and prove their quality as an interested party. The bill proposes that the suspension of the procedure should be carried out after the proceedings have been initiated before the Commission for Protection of Competition, regulatoryly stating that the examination of the complaint before the Supreme Administrative Court against the pre-execution of the award decision is a cassation of its nature. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Todor Baychev and Yavor Bojankov took part in the discussion. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the objectives of the bill are timely, the proposed amendments are necessary and should be supported. Mr. Baychev and Mr. Bozhankov said they would not support the bill by expressing reservations about the envisaged possibility of electronic communication. In response to Mr. Bojankov's question Mrs. Georgieva pointed out that at the moment, the submission of complaints to the Commission for Protection of Competition is carried out by mail, by e-mail and by fax, specifying that if the applicant does not state an electronic address and does not remedy this irregularity, this is grounds for termination of the proceedings. She added that 1203 complaints were submitted to the Commission for Protection of Competition last year and that only 10 proceedings had a complication in electronic notification. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 854 01-33, submitted by Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 4 May 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is it an importer's presentation or are we going straight to speeches? Mr. Hamid Hamid. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will abstain from voting on this bill. As they say, we approve of the objectives, but not the methods of the Bill. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, don't laugh, it's about the Bill! An old problem is this vice, this sport for some participants in the appeal process. It's no secret that there are a number of companies that have turned it into a profession. We have also tried many times in previous national meetings, mainly through the introduction of appeal fees, the increase of fees and we have always received reproach from Brussels. Very often this reproach has been: Do not increase fees, do not take appeal fees, because it is an attempt to hinder access to justice! We support a significant number of the proposed texts. We are about to present exactly the arguments which person is concerned, to indicate e-mail addresses, to require representative authority. In short, we are about to solve this problem once and for all, but with the basic text that is being introduced, colleagues, solving the problem with some of the companies that abuse the right to appeal, we are addressing a huge number of companies that really believe they have arguments to appeal an order, they do not want to abuse it, but this text will deter them, under fear of fighting them, to subsequently appeal. Colleagues, this can also be interpreted as obstructing access to justice. That's why we're holding back. Between first and second reading we will propose the texts, we will try to edit this goal. Far be it from me to think that's what you're after. On the contrary, we support the aim of the Bill. We will participate between first and second readings and our texts. As you know, over the years, especially the latest amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we have given the opportunity when a contracting authority considers that a complaint at first reading is unfounded, to ask the Commission for protection of competition in advance, i.e. before the appeal is completed to proceed to enforcement. At the moment, however, a huge number of contracting entities do not want to proceed to a pre-execution just because they are afraid of losing the appeal proceedings and getting a penalty, although we have amended the penalty, it is already up to 10%, is not 10%. We'll abstain from threateningly sounding editing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr Hamid, I was a little surprised by your speech. There was a reformative, smart and beautiful daring of colleagues who developed these schemes and successfully implemented them in Plovdiv and Stara Zagora. I would like to emphatically stress the following: the so-called threat is a legal principle. You know very well that it is a basic rule in the Civil Procedure Code. Whether we reproduce it in the ZOP, this rule also exists the legal possibility of engaging the regression responsibility also exists. You have not been to the Committee on Legal Affairs, but there are agreed opinions of the three business organizations on this bill. One of the three business organizations categorically states: "Return the old deposit regime to guarantees in public procurement! " We have not proposed this rule in order not to create additional obstacles and burdens precisely for appeal and the realization of the right to appeal. What did we ask for? We have requested that the complaint be not blank, that specific grounds be given. Isn't that normal? Is it not an abuse of the right to use blanche complaints to question everything and not to say exactly what violated your right? Secondly, I think that this will overcome largely the attempts of the now underprivileged owners of commercial companies, to blackmail the contracting entity with seven, nine months each and to prevent the public interest in carrying out a public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Although the Bill has a logic and a good idea, we cannot look at it on our own. It is in the context of a comprehensive policy. Here some of the questions have become the subject of debates on other bills. Such is, for example, the matter of service. This bill provides that they will be notified by email to the addressees. We find this method insecure, as a simple email can send the letter in spam, it can delay it, and there are time limits and serious consequences. Yeah, that might not be a lot of cases, but there'll certainly be random victims. When we discussed AKK, many state bodies and branch organizations expressed reservations. In our view, we need a unified answer to this issue, which comes out in many public spheres, and this does not solve the issue at all, but creates new cases. And here the question is as legal as it is philosophical: is it worth speeding up the process to sacrifice the interests of citizens and businesses, because the balance changes precisely in this direction?! Such is essentially the requirement to justify the interest, it is good, it has its logic and, of course, a person without legal interest must not mourn, but now, in general, abuse of right can be pursued. Our concern is that a subjective interpretation and use by the administration of this instrument, although I do not want to believe, nor do I despise that the administration is dishonest, but here again the balance is shifting in the interest of the administration, and by putting the context already in the overall legislation, we remember that court institutions have dropped out, we remember... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, can we please ask my colleagues? I can't hear my voice?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u15	Dear colleagues, please be quiet. Take your seats and let's put this order in the room to help, not interfere with the colleague who is on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, going back, we're already putting it in the context of more debates: well, since the fees are low and low, they're sorry, right now we're discussing changes to the Administrative Procedure Code and there, colleagues, you've suggested fees to be based on material interest, there you've proposed a significant acceleration of the process. At the same time, I stress that appeals are part of the procedures, part of life in a rule of law. We are worried about the treatment of legal order as a decor and an annoying detail that the management should take into account. The big problem of society is not public procurement delayed by six months. That's, let's say, part of the process and the game. And the problem with society is that the orders are set up and have a known user at least my life experience shows this. And that doesn't solve this problem at all, but on the contrary, it just gives more authority in the hands of the administration. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Bojankov, I regret that we will have to repeat the debate we had in the Legal Commission and in the Chamber, but still in view of the accuracy of those you have expressed, firstly, except by e-mail the announcement will become imperative and by fax, however archaic or ancient this method may seem to you, it is foreseen and not provided only in the Public Procurement Act. If you open the Civil Procedure Code, if you open the Administrative Procedure Code, you will see that this method is a valid way of notifying and, if you believe that the electronic way of communication and notification is not reliable enough, there is an alternative, and there is an alternative that is used in the interest of the truth by most commercial companies involved or interested in the relevant procurement. As far as the main thesis is concerned that the requirements for proving legal interest are hardly hindering the possibility of contesting, I remind you that, even now, every citizen, challenging any administrative act, must prove its legal interest in this. If you have no legal interest, the court will simply leave your complaint motionless until you have established the existence of one. If you believe that these changes are made in the service of the administration, no, they are not made in the service of the administration, they are done in the service of the citizens in cases where the public procurement provides an appropriate service or an appropriate opportunity which the State should provide in one way or another Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another line? I won't. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u20	Dear Mr. Mitev, I have turned my attention to the unified response to a problem which is also manifest in other public spheres, and obviously needs to find a complex solution. That is why I also recalled the debate on the AKK "It is no coincidence that the State Agency expressed the opinion that the state system should be able to duly certify receipt of the letter and at what point the deadline should run. And as for the debate in the Legal Commission, not unfortunately, I would say: fortunately we carry it into the Chamber. After all, the art of law, of a good lawyer, is with simple words to explain to people what it is about, because it is people and our colleagues who need to understand what the consequences will be. For this reason, I think there is nothing wrong with repeating the debate in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor on this bill, as the Public Procurement Act is the order in which public funds are spent in their majority in Bulgaria. In this sense, regulation of these relations affects every citizen, and today's debate is, in my opinion, very important. I read the reasons, the impact assessment and, like my colleague Hamid, that was the first thing I had decided to tell the importer. Indeed there is a problem, but we have to ask ourselves: is this the biggest problem in the Public Procurement Act, and is this the best way to solve it? We need to start with the analysis of the information that has been indicated by the importer in the impact assessment, on average 9% of public procurement is contested. However, what part of these 9% are illegal procedures? What is the total volume of public procurement, what is the rate of illegals compared to the total percentage? The data on the impact assessment are not available in the reasons. It is said that many public procurements are slowing down, which is not enough and could lead to damage. I don't think that's a good enough argument either. What should be the objectives of the contracting authority? The aim of contracting entities must be the optimal spending of funds in order to improve the environment of citizens' lives, because public funds are being spent for this, and precisely the element of opportunity for appeal, the procedure to pass through the Commission for Protection of Competition, possibly through the Supreme Administrative Court, allows the funds to be optimally spent. That is to say, the right to appeal is a right which the person uses and must be seen not only as the applicant's right to himself, but it is a right created in the public interest to correct public relations in the expenditure of these huge sums. I cannot accept several positions in the Bill, although I also argue that there are also things that can be accepted. I'm gonna go with what's unacceptable to me. It is claimed that liability for damages is being introduced. Responsibility for damage to the illegal activities of each of us, of each complainant exists at the moment in law, and I am glad that the importer has just admitted it. There is a text in our legislation that says that the persons enjoy their rights in order to satisfy their interests and they cannot exercise these rights contrary to the interests of society. In other words, the possibility of implementing such a responsibility exists at the moment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 196a is a proclamation of something that already exists in the law, which makes it unnecessary, given that legal regulation must, as my colleague before me said, in the most comprehensive, short and clear form, introduce legal rules. I also cannot agree with the introduction of a legal fiction regarding the service of e-mail and fax. It's not even an e-mail or a fax. The first problem here is that with the insufficient technical development of contracting entities, the non-introduction of electronic management, the different technical capability of participants in procedures, the availability of e-mail, and the fax is an additional technical requirement to be introduced. But that's not the main problem here. The main problem is the fiction offered by the importer, namely that by sending the documents by fax and by e-mail they were accepted to be served. Well, there are lawyers here, and they can tell you how many places in law is regulated service. You can't fake a receipt by sending it. There is a verification of whether or not the fax has been received, and also for e-mail. The importer suggests by sending them to be considered served, which to me is unacceptable. At the third post, I'll stop by and I'd like to pay attention to you. At the moment, the applicants may request a temporary measure to stop the procedure in cases where the lodging of the complaint does not stop it. The current order provides that, by submitting a complaint, the procedure shall be suspended until the KPC has taken a quick decision on the temporary measure requested. Here it is proposed that a request for a temporary measure to suspend the procedure should not lead to its suspension. The contracting authority may continue its work and only when the CPC, which is also a state body and a party to the applicant, would result in such a suspension, i.e. purely hypothetically after having requested a provisional measure, may, within the time limit until the ruling, be substantially amended by subsequent actions under it and even be concluded. And in the final, to importers and to us at all: this is the third amendment in five months of the Public Procurement Act. My opinion is that, in the likeness of other laws, we must do so after a broad public discussion. Not only to quote the opinions of employers' organisations, but a public discussion with specialists in the field. Let us remind that this law is relatively new and was adopted with the feeling that it solves many problems and in five months three changes. This one was imported on May 5th 10 days before today. I can't agree to such legislation, no! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we will not support this bill. We understand the desire and motives of importers to provide another rapid track with regard to emerging public procurement, but this possibility should be balanced. It should not be at the expense of access to justice, which also colleague Hamid Hamid has just spoken from this platform. On the one hand, you have provided a fast track in the AKK. A special court to look at these cases, now here you are limiting the possibility of an appeal. More than that, in art. 196a, in § 2, you have recorded that the parties involved in the proceedings and their representatives are obliged to exercise the procedural rights conferred on them. Well, once they are involved, they are already involved in this proceedings, honourable Members, of course they are interested parties, interested parties. Further down you want them to prove this quality, and they are already part of this process, which is quite a big nonsense. In this regard, we will not support this bill and for reasons that colleagues Bojankov and Milkov pointed out here, from this platform. Once again, we understand the desire for a faster opportunity for these public procurements to take place, but you are in practice limiting and suspending the possibility of an appeal under some kind of responsibility, which will be borne by the appealr because of some subjective criteria that belong to the authority itself, which I do not think is normal in a rule of law. I believe that you will also have quite serious sanctions from outside the European Commission by the European authorities monitoring and monitoring our legislation, so there is no way to support this bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Please, you have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I didn't want to take any more lines or opinions, but somehow I can't keep quiet to ask my colleague Popov. Colleague Popov, list these subjective criteria under which responsibility will be realized because, as you well know, this responsibility is realized judicially in the legal proceedings, which is competitive proceedings. Tell me, through what prism have you broken your faith in independent justice, that you have declared it subjective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member Popov, I would agree with the limited access to justice that you spoke about if the rule on the justification of the applicant's legal interest had also been terminated with regard to any challenge of an administrative act in the administrative process. There's no such thing. You know that anyone who disputes must prove their legal interest. The amendments that are now being proposed by the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act are in fact reaffirming this rule. Once they have the appropriate quality of the person concerned, be so good as to justify those who dispute it in the complaint they submit. Moreover, I believe that these changes effectively eliminate a very lucrative business that exists at the moment, to paid complainants who have neither any interest nor interest at all in participating in a public procurement contract, nor have financial, resource, material security to participate in the contract concerned and their sole purpose is to blackmail the other participants in the public procurement procedure. I believe that this bill is a tool against this, and I am surprised that you are ignoring the phenomenon and think that it should remain without having a corresponding response from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, you know that there is always guilt in the abuse of right. Is not guilt a subjective criterion? Shall I tell you in the case of a delicacy the grounds and the factual composition? I think you know them very well. You're practically trying to figure it out. I'm going to give it to you for the wild to burn and the tame. Only 3% of all public procurement has a problem with appeal, but much of public procurement raises doubts about lack of transparency, lack of opportunity to appeal, misuse of public funds. You here with this bill are practically putting more pieces into this fire in the absence of transparency, in the danger of misuse of funds. 3% against other percentages, honourable Members! That's what you do! This creates a feeling in society, in people that you are strengthening this nebula, which has covered all public procurements at the moment in Bulgaria. You've done it several times. This is already a third, fourth attempt by which you are trying to shorten the deadlines, procedures. Now, we see the countries here, and the possibility of an appeal, and to prove interest, even though they are parties to the process itself. If they are parties to this process, how can they prove more than that they are an interested party? They're already involved in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? I won't. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement with importers of the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs submitted on 4 May 2018. Vote 155 MPs: 93 against 20, abstention 42. The offer is accepted. We continue with the second point of the program: For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Importer of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Stoyanova will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I ask for a procedure to be admitted to the hall Mrs. Nina Stoyanova, Governor of BNB, and Mrs. Irina Marcheva, Chief Coordinator of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u33	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 129 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u34	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act No 854-01-30, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova on 2 May 2018. At two meetings held on 3 and 10 May 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The representatives of the Bulgarian National Bank Nina Stoyanova, Head of the Board of Directors, Vesela Uzunova-Kostova, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Metodology and Financial Markets and the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, Irina Martseva, Secretary General, and Eleonora Hristoforova, an expert took part in its discussion. The bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds is in force and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. It shall contain different transitional periods until its full application on 1 January 2020. Despite its direct action to ensure its full application in Bulgarian legislation, some of its provisions have been introduced with the new Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems (promise, SG No. 20 of 6 March 2018) In accordance with art. 28 Paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 provides that, where supervised entities use a benchmark, they shall draw up and maintain plans in writing in order to identify the actions they will take in the event that that benchmark changes substantially or is no longer being drawn up. Where possible and appropriate, those plans shall specify one or more alternative benchmarks which may be used as substitutes for benchmarks which are no longer being drawn up, indicating why those benchmarks would be appropriate alternatives. On request, supervised entities shall provide those plans to the relevant competent authority and reflect them in their contractual relations. It is envisaged that at the time of the implementation of an action plan under the conditions of art. 28 Paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 shall not exceed the rate of interest before the swap, and the order in which customers should be notified of the change in their contractual relationship arising from the implementation of the plan. In order for customers to be completely free in their choice, the Law on Real Estate Credits provides for a derogation of the only possibility of receiving compensation from the creditor upon early repayment of the loan. In all other cases, in this law and in the Consumer Credit Act, customers do not owe a fee upon early repayment of a loan. The proposed changes to the Consumer Credit Act and the Consumer Loan Act aim to ensure clarity and predictability of consumer relations, especially where the indicated market indices, which are part of the methodology agreed between a creditor and a borrower to calculate the reference rate applicable to credit agreements, cease to be drawn up and apply the plans already drawn up and disclosed by credit institutions required under Regulation (EU) 2016/1011. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill for Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act, No 854-01-30, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova on 2 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I give the floor for a declaration by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The changes proposed in the European Union legislative package to freight regulations provide for extremely severe restrictions on the transport sector and can lead to its actual destruction in Bulgaria. In fact, threatened with destruction is a sector that forms 17% of our country's gross domestic product and provides employment to over 190 000 people. Bulgarian carriers have cause for concern. The requirement for returning drivers to their home every three or four weeks, regardless of what considerations it is dictated, limits the access of Bulgarian transport companies to the common European market. The losses will be mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises with limited fleet and staff. Drivers will be forced to return from remote Western and central European countries at their own expense. This will lead to the bankruptcy of small businesses. In the form of supposed social justice there is a hidden subtext, and it is the Bulgarian carriers to be brought to a state of bankruptcy and all their drivers to go to work for companies from the old member states of the European Union, the industry says. Bulgarian drivers will flee to the old member states, where to seek livelihood for themselves and their families, somewhere to raise and study their children. The noble motive that the proposed mobility package is in defence of the rights of workers, their better pay and the right to rest, in fact deprives a huge number of people from working in our country. EU Transport Commissioner Violeta Bullz announced on Monday that he has invited the Bulgarian Presidency to prepare concrete proposals on the four key issues for Bulgaria in the first mobility package of the new rules for carriers in Europe and to submit them to the European Commission. This only means that the Bulgarian government has not sent any official proposal so far. In fact, this statement by the commissioner is complemented by the words of Minister Moskovski on 14 May, from that day on which he said, I quote: "Cohesive with the team of Commissioner Violeta Bulz we are starting work today on specific texts concerning the mobility package. The Bulgarian government has wasted a year without working to create a coalition of countries to oppose those countries of the European Union that support the Law of Macron and which have a huge influence in decision-making on Germany, France, Austria, Italy, Scandinavian countries, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Moreover, on 28 November 2017, the Council of Ministers approved the position of Minister Moskovski in the report of the Republic of Bulgaria for a meeting of the Council of the European Union on Transport in support of further progress on the proposals of the road package. Here's the solution to a whole industry being passed on. [[Shows it.]] The Bulgarian government has categorically wasted the opportunity to act at the level of the Council of the European Union and to work to close the mobility package... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u37	Colleagues, please be quiet. Take your seats, please, don't stay on the side of the room, but take your seats and keep quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u38	Thank you. ... during our presidency. It was a unique chance to achieve some improvements in the conditions. We can hardly count that in this situation the next Austrian Presidency will better protect the interests of Bulgarian carriers. Unfortunately, our transport policy is on autopilot. And the industry has to save itself, obviously. And, of course, guilty or responsible in the government there will be no. During the presentation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the area of transport at the beginning of this year, Minister Moskovski said the Bulgarian Presidency has the ambition to contribute to the development of this important sector by giving priority to the initiatives included on the first and second mobility packages. Well, you really gave them priority only, unfortunately, to the detriment of the Bulgarian national interest. We are Presidents of the Council of the European Union, and obviously we cannot protect our national interests. There is no harm in being naive and flattering yourself by the kind words "congratulations", "mon sherry" or "bravo," Boyko, with which the foreign partners of the country diplomatically warm your soul with the clear awareness that you understand only them without a translator. It helps to experience moments of crisis and preserve the psyche. However, naivety, when you are on top of the state, is criminal. Naivete is criminal because you condemn thousands of misery and endanger the existence of an entire industry in the case of transport. It is also naive to believe that in a private conversation with the proposer, you will reach a compromise on his position. It is obvious that in the European Parliament the distribution of votes is not in favor of our position and therefore had to be acted through the Council, to be sought by supporters. But alas! And there was a whole year of diplomacy and politics. The planned changes to the mobility package on the secondment of car drivers pose a risk to the freedom to provide services in the European Union. Such a proposal is nothing more than a well-hidden protectionism that divides Europe, and the government should have long been looking for the common position of the affected countries in the mobility package, not in the way we know how to run at the last second. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] But what the hell, the price of a industry must be worth it when Merkel says the historical "Bravo," Boyko! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Political party GERB and Mr. Borisov's government took the following steps in the European Council and the European Parliament in defence of the Bulgarian citizens and now I will tell you exactly what steps and what measures were taken. First of all, on 31 May 2017, the Council of Europe proposed the "Mobility 1" package. On 8 June, seven days after this date, Mr. Moskovski proposed the decision, which was previously agreed in the Council of Ministers They are: for the break, for the capotaise, for sleeping in a cabin. These red lines, which have been placed, as I mentioned just now, seven days after the first meeting, where this mobility package has been presented, continue to defend themselves against the Bulgarian government to this day. On 5 December 2017, at the end of the Estonian Presidency, it was mentioned that the Bulgarian government thanked the Estonian Government, yes, that is right, because if this mobility package was completed in the Estonian Presidency, we would not be having any talks now. It would have been a fact to the detriment of Bulgarian carriers. But then we didn't let this thing happen, like we're not letting this thing happen at the moment. Yesterday at Hotel Sheraton there was a program, there was a round table at which all Bulgarian carriers were invited. More than 600 people attended this meeting, where Mr. Moskovski expressed the opinion of the Bulgarian government if it is accepted in four weeks to make the mandatory holiday, with a declaration that the driver will declare where he wants this holiday to be. This thing is agreed with the Bulgarian carriers from the Bulgarian government. The second decision of yesterday is for the break in the cabin. There will be an obligation for drivers to rest outside the cabins only when the European Union provides conditions for this security parking lot, where drivers will be able to leave their cars and thus be calm for both cars and their goods. I do not want to hear BSP talk that the Bulgarian government has lost a year! [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] That the Bulgarian government has lost a year! What has it lost, ladies and gentlemen?! When did you get into this?! That's my main question for you! A week ago! A week ago you came into this matter! [[Applause from GERB.]] And you're exploiting this subject because it's profitable for you right now. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, tell me: are you helping the Bulgarian transport industry or not?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u41	Who are you asking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u42	I don't think you're helping. On the contrary, you are putting pressure on this industry. Yesterday were the bosses of all transport companies. They stood behind the Bulgarian government. And the suggestion that there will be protests tomorrow, I want to tell you that there will be no protests tomorrow. Tomorrow there will be a peaceful procession that will support the Bulgarian government. [[Applause from GERB, noise and lines in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Again I say in support of the Bulgarian government! In support of the Bulgarian government! So, ladies and gentlemen, be humble, be quiet for a while while while the Bulgarian government does its job! As I said, on 24 May, the Committee on Transport will vote. Our proposals will be presented there. Then on June 7th, if a vote is allowed on which Bulgarian Minister Moskovski said he would leave the meeting, if such a point is submitted forcefully, then we will see what will happen. But like I said, there's not gonna be a protest tomorrow, there's gonna be a procession! Let the Bulgarian government do its job! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] I can't give you a procedure in the manner of conduct, because that was a statement from a group, Mr. Svilensky. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski goes to the stands and insists on taking the floor by procedure.]] Okay, here you go, you have the floor for procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u44	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is exactly the way it is, because even in a declaration, even on behalf of a parliamentary group, untruths cannot be spoken! When we show the Council of Ministers' decision, in which there is no government position and no red lines, and to this day there are no such decisions, you are here misleading 240 MPs and perhaps so many media for having a solution...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u45	The way you're holding me, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u46	When you have a solution, why did you schedule a decision on Friday to oblige the government to have a position? [[strong noise and lines in GERB]] Why did you force the government to have a position?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u47	To support the Bulgarian government!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u48	Why did you have to do that? He's got a position, doesn't he?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u49	Mr. Svilensky, the procedure is for me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u50	Madam President, I ask you not to allow even a declaration to speak untruths of this tribune because there are documents. In front of the documents even colleagues from GERB should be silenced! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u51	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on the item on the agenda. There's a word for it, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u52	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is about an extremely important, not political, but an economic issue about a change in the Credit Institutions Act. To inform colleagues who have not been informed so far, we are talking about a change in the mechanism of interest rates formation. Dear colleagues, in 2014 we finally adopted European practice. Bulgaria was the last country in which the interest rates of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian companies are formed briefly: market index and allowance fixed by decision of each commercial bank in the Republic of Bulgaria, as is the practice in the European Union. Now something outrageous is being offered. The Central Bank now informs us that it has taken a decision on 16 March 2017, after which I do not know that it has bothered to warn, to inform the Budget Committee and Parliament that it will impose a change in the Credit Institutions Act. With what it does, the Central Bank is refusing to calculate and publish our Bulgarian index SOFIBOR from 1 July 2018. What's this about, fellow Members? It is said that after the first scandalous discussion of this law on 3 May this year it became clear that the discussion of the Law in the Budget Committee began, pay attention, without a single written opinion, without the presence of any of the seven governors of our National Bank, without any member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Association of Banks, without a single understanding of what is being proposed to change. The President of the Commission correctly, at our insistence, postponed the discussion to 10 May 2018. Only on 9 May 2018 the Governor of BNB wrote a letter to the Budget Commission, which, in my opinion, attempted to mislead Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, since this letter, in addition to informing the Budget Committee again, that the BNB stopped the formation, calculation and publication of the SOFIBOR and SOFIBID index, said that this was because it was unusual for central banks to make such an index. Let's see if this is really unlike the central banks, ladies and gentlemen! Parliament is misled by the European Union Regulation 2016/1011. What does this regulation say? I quote on page two:.14. Central banks already respect the principles, standards and procedures ensuring that they exercise their activities respectfully and independently. Therefore, this Regulation does not need to apply to central banks. And now the European Union Regulation especially atypically says: "When central banks produce benchmarks, especially when these benchmarks are intended for transactions, they are responsible for establishing appropriate internal procedures to ensure the accuracy, reliability, reliability and independence of benchmarks in particular with regard to transparency of management and the methodology of the calculation. Furthermore, this Regulation should not apply to public authorities, including national statistical agencies and central banks. The European Union has rightly confidence in the European central banks and this regulation is made against the manipulations of the LIBOR and EURIBOR indices, which are not made by central banks. Moreover, on March 15, 2018, I downloaded the copy of the Internet last night. [[shows sheet]] , communication from the European Central Bank. Honourable Members, I quote: the Central Bank has decided to form, calculate and publish a benchmark that is an addition to existing benchmarks on the European market. What's the conclusion? The Regulation highlights the reliability of the formation of benchmarks by central banks. The European Central Bank announced that before 2020, it, the European Central Bank, introduced a new benchmark. At the same time the Governing Council of BNB says that this is not typical of the Bulgarian Central Bank, it is very unusual! Who's right? The European Union, the European Central Bank or BNB? The explanation will change the Law to protect the interest of borrowers. How? As in the Law, we will write that under the new conditions, re-signing contracts in the absence of SOFIBOR would not raise interest rates. This is a story about kindergartens, ladies and gentlemen. We represent the companies and the people here. When you sign a new contract at 9:30 a.m. at the same interest rate until you get home, the interest has changed, as they guarantee you that at the time of the rewrite the interest will be no higher. Dear colleagues, if you vote on this right now, the result will be an increase in interest rates for Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian citizens. Do not support this vote, withdraw the bill or vote against it, and the Bulgarian National Bank, if they like, will continue to make the index, as the European Union and the European Central Bank dictates. To protect the interest of companies and people, not to push through with insinuations and with manipulations of changes in the Law with severe economic consequences. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u53	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u54	Dear Mr. Gechev! That's a line, even though I mention his name later he doesn't want a personal explanation. I will focus on three things from your speech, although I can focus on everything you have said. First of all, I would like to say that the BNB has not notified the Budget and Finance Committee that it will not support the SOFIBOR benchmark from 1 July 2018. In the summer of 2016 there is an announcement on the website of BNB and it is public for all who are interested. True, the Budget and Finance Committee has not been notified by a special letter, but I do not know that this is an obligation of the BNB. Any MP who's interested can see it. Second of all, what did you just say? The European Central Bank had confidence in central banks because those currently making Bora or EURIBOR manipulate it, demek lie, that is, EURIBOR or BORA are not real benchmarks. That's what you said just now. Why did you introduce them as indices in the two bills you submitted two years ago? You understand the ridiculousness you said? Thirdly, the European Central Bank would make a benchmark, and our bank gave up. Yes, the European Central Bank will make a benchmark, but it will do so under the new regulation....... on the basis of real transactions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's based on real overnight deals. That's what our BNB does. However, this benchmark you did not write in your laws then, and it is missing, although now with the Regulation it will be possible, if for one reason or another some of the other benchmarks drop out, to replace it with another, respectively we already have a real benchmark base rate. The European Central Bank has yet to develop the methodology by which it will make such a benchmark. Again, this will not be EURIBOR, LIBOR or anything else. It can't be a BOR because it won't be on a quote. It will be a benchmark for real overnight transactions, so the BNB has overtaken the events or, more precisely, has done its job in 2016, when the Regulation was adopted. So what you're saying here and what you've read, it's just not true or you just don't get it. Please be more precise in your speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gechev! I cannot agree with just one thing, because in the sphere of finance, as you are well aware, it is not right to make suggestions that can lead to serious economic consequences for broad masses, i.e. for the whole Bulgarian society. This is the suggestion that, if you see, you can increase interest rates and interest rates on loans will necessarily increase. In particular, in the Commission and in your presence, since I was not aware of it, I asked a question: in the formula determining the price of the loan, can SOFIBOR be replaced by EURIBOR or LIDO? The answer was very clear yes. Including you, you said: when you look at the prices of the respective pines, which I have listed "SOFIBOR, LIDO and EURIBOR," you notice that SOFIBOR has the highest values. Therefore, the price of credit or interest for citizens cannot be increased by at least this. It is precisely for this reason that I cannot agree with this statement or, you see, the political talk, let us scare the public that the government will raise the price of the loan tomorrow that they will not be able to meet their counter-credits. Please, from now on, strictly observe this, as you know very well that the financial system must not tolerate such tremors, cannot tolerate and should not tolerate political talk, which is intended only for political dividend, rather than foreclosure of realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Gechev, I remember the debates in 2014, and I remember them, I would say, too detailed. I expected more responsibility from you than suggestion. Indeed, it is worrying that there is an attempt to make a technical issue a political issue. I believe that in this case both the legislator and BNB acted as correctly and accurately as possible over time. The BNB's decision not to support this index is probably justified by its assessment of regulatory functions, and, of course, the severity of one, I would say, a little over-intruded index. The fact is that this is not a law for SOFFIBOR. This is a bill and amendment that concerns all possible benchmarks used in credit agreements. Yeah, probably, on July 1st, a situation like this could happen for some of the contracts. I think that both the Central Bank and the auction banks acted in accordance with the directive....................................... and have made appropriate plans and based on the typical decision in these plans the legislator makes a legislative proposal to protect the interests of the depositors as well. Yes, none of the legislators can be a fortune-teller or, as a prime minister said, be fortune-teller in the future and determine future circumstances and events or quotes. But the rights of the parties are guaranteed and, notice, they are guaranteed in favour of the borrower, in defence of his interests. The time for reply is short, but I will use then, Madam President, the possibility of a detailed statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here's your coat, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u60	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! Since I'm standing on the stand, I wouldn't let myself mislead the MPs with information. On the issue of the manipulation of LIBOR and EURIBOR there are dozens of reports of committees of the European Central Bank, publications related to manipulations. Quotes in Reuters, which can't read in English, can't translate with any help, I think there are also in Bulgarian, from a meeting of the European Central Bank, decisions of the Financial Stabilitti Board. These are the G20 countries, with the leading countries and economies of the world, with central banks and finance ministers taking concrete measures against the manipulation of LIBOR and EURIBOR during and after the 2008 crisis. Finally, the official decision of the European Central Bank that it is precisely because of the attempts to manipulate they want to introduce another anchor. The European Central Bank has an official decision of the Board of Directors that the benchmark is introduced before 2020. These are specific documents, they are not charges. So I strongly reject it! Secondly, the BNB did not have to inform us. Bravo! We have to stand by and wait for BNB's communiqués. Is it so difficult for the Governing Council of the BNB to inform the Budget Committee that they are taking a decision that concerns us to amend the Law? They drink their coffee colleagues, make a decision, clap their hands and embrace that parliament must change the Law as a result of their decision. The central bank of Europe will make a benchmark. There is a special regulation in which they rightly raise the authority of the European central banks of the Member States, but no, our bank does not want to do the index. Dear colleagues, why won't he do it? That one or two people won't spend 30 minutes in the Excel to make the index? Is that the problem? The problem is that SOFIBOR is negative - 0.495, enter the website of BNB and the commercial banks in Bulgaria do not like that the anchor is negative. When you make a decision now, they will sit in one corner, make their business programme and register with the Central Bank the new way of making interest rates because they cannot go to LIBOR or TIBOR. That is why we included SOFIBOR in the Law, as you will probably not be surprised that the main loans in Bulgaria are in levs and are not on the Tokyo or on the London monetary market. As you wish! These are the documents of the European Union. I have done my duty and I have informed you and I warn you friendlyly: if you vote now, in a few months we will again discuss why interest rates are rising. We have a responsibility to protect the interests of all countries and of the banking system, but also of borrowers. I therefore ask you once again: either withdraw the bill or do not vote on it. The BNB will have nothing to do with two people doing their indexes and not dealing with risky legal changes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u61	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, both in the Budget Committee the first time and last week in the Assembly, and today the debate is not going in the right direction according to my humble opinion. Topics are mixed that relate to the Bill, suggestions that have a basis for the Bill, but are made wrong conclusions. I'll give an example. In 2014 we changed the Law after a very long and difficult discussion in society, in the media, in parliament, with the participation of the Association of Commercial Banks, BNB and so on. So it happened that the main participants in it by the parliament were my humble personality and Professor Gechev. To recall, in relation to Mrs. Stoyanova's claim, why we included SOFIBOR, why we included EURIBOR and LIBOR, after being manipulated, that until now there was no regulation to determine interest rates. The commercial banks' provocation was monstrous. We were overwhelmed by thousands of letters and complaints at meetings. All MPs of that time knew that, I recall, creditors had the right to increase interest rates without the consent of the borrower once, repeatedly unilaterally in the contracts. It was the most fragile legal fact that we wanted to change, and we changed it. In this change, I am starting here because I will try to explain why the change in the Law now has no such important attitude towards interest rates as Professor Gechev says. The most important change was not the indicators we introduced. The most important change we made in the Law then, Professor Gechev, to remind you, was that we prohibited commercial banks by law to change contracts without the consent of the borrower. That is, if he wants to increase him in any way, on some basis the interest rate, then he must obtain the explicit consent of the borrower. In other words, the borrower has the opportunity to defend itself, whatever the index is. And we introduced these indices. In addition, 2014 there were no indications of manipulation of EURΙBOR and LIBOR. There were no reports in question from "Reuters", the central banks, the European Central Bank and so on and so forth. Yeah, then it happened. Since the Law continues to act in this way, I believe that the main objective that we set for ourselves at that time has been implemented.. the protection of the borrower from the creditor's arbitrariness. Let's come to the topic of indices which are the subject of this change in the Law. Whether the BNB should define SOFIBOR or should not be a discussion issue. I am inclined to accept Professor Gechev's claim that maybe they should continue to define him and he should continue to be one of the quotas. However, note that the Law does not say that SOFIBOR is the anchor, nor that EURIBOR, nor that LIBOR, but lists other statistical indices, data, facts that are determined by the National Statistical Institute, by the BNB and by all institutes dealing with the calculation, storage, analysis and so on of data in this sphere. That is, when setting interest rates are not strictly influenced by benchmarks, and each bank sets a string of indices or one index, or two indices, and in direct negotiations with the borrower or its representatives reach the corresponding contract between two legal entities or between one legal person and one natural person. So there is no way, Professor Gechev, I can see in this direct violation of the interests of the borrowers... those in business and people. All mechanisms in their defense exist. Whether there will be SOFIBOR or without it, the mechanisms exist. Okay, I agree, it is not the main subject of the dispute and the protection of credit users will have SOFIBOR, or will it not exist. The European Central Bank is rightly oriented towards determining such a benchmark, which is based on real transactions. Well, the BNB's got to be on top of that. And the BNB to do the same as the European Central Bank does, and to go even further into the regulations to oblige this to be the basis on which to determine interest rates, real transactions. That's what I'd support with both hands, Professor. But now to argue that this change would violate the interest of credit consumers, that it would necessarily lead to an increase in interest rates... The law gives everyone the opportunity to protect their interest when entering into a contract. Even now, if you have to change the contracts, you have the right to defend your interest again, even the obligation, because that is the way the Law has been made, which we have changed, Professor Gechev, and we have taken very serious steps in the direction of consumer protection. Therefore, I believe that the subject of these changes are indeed technical parameters and the BNB should consider whether this decision is correct or not, but the findings that this law will lead to a change, to an increase in interest rates on loans are definitely false first. Secondly, we should not set foot in the financial sector like elephants in a glass shop much more carefully. I've always appealed from this tribune. Another question is that BNB, when it comes to pleasing someone and some, is willing to introduce regulations year or two before they are introduced in Europe, is willing to think of any additions to certain requirements of the European Central Bank, directives or regulations to pressure the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian banks, and when it comes to the most important thing, the relationship between the indices and the parameters on which the relationship between creditors and borrowers can actually be calculated, there we are somehow a pass. I have always stressed from this tribune that the BNB should not exceed its functions on the basis of quotes from incorrect interpretations, as they are comfortable with different solutions and regulations, and other documents, and when it comes to defending the Bulgarian banks and Bulgarian borrowers, it should be more passive. I think it would be no mistake to support this bill and that fears are in vain. The law provides for sufficient protection for borrowers from the voluntarities of creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For the first line Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u64	Mr. Tsonev, I will give you a reply in the first part of your speech because the second part was not related to the specific bill, but was in principle. First of all, what you said is absolutely true. With the change in these 2014 bills that you mentioned, there is practically an anchor for the banks, indices that could be used and which, whether they are now claimed to have been manipulated or not been manipulated, are better than total chaos. Mr. Gechev drew here data that there is manipulation of this index, but I want to say clearly and categorically that even if there is such manipulation, it does not in any case depend on who calculates the indices, but on who and what data provides for the calculation of the indices, and what is this database as a volume, what is the sample from which these indices are calculated. When we talk about SOFIBOR here and we see what the sample is on which SOFIBOR is calculated, we will see that these are eight banks, even now I do not know if there are 8, because, as far as I know, there are one or two banks that had requested to drop out in the calculation. So the smaller the base, the more manipulative an index can be. I agree with the BNB that it does not want to maintain a SOFIBOR, which is possible to be manipulated, and if its basis for calculating narrows, it will accordingly be an unrepresentable index, and focus on making the real benchmark, namely the one that is calculated on the basis of overnight transactions, which the BNB has been doing since 2016. It is called a basic interest rate in Bulgaria, and the European Central Bank is yet to do so and it is not yet clear exactly in what details this calculation will be carried out by the European Central Bank. So the BNB has done its job in this regard and the base interest rate in question can safely be the benchmark that can be replaced by any bank in the formula for calculating interest rates if I have to replace any of the benchmarks currently used. So it's not right to make that suggestion. Once again, I would like to say: if you look at in recent years what the levels of these levels of those levels of those levels of LIBOR, EURΙBOR, SOFIBOR, you will see that although they are currently negative, as well as SOFIBOR are negative, they have not been negative all the time, and now SOFIBOR is the highest in relation to all other benchmarks, which means that in no case is its possible replacement, a possible exchange with some of the other benchmarks could not lead to an increase in interest rates, even more so that we have put in the Law and such text, but I will refer to this later in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I let you speak calmly because the group has plenty of time. [[Reply.]] It was time taken from there. Second line? Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u66	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleague Tsonev! Let me clarify something important and categorical. The argument I think is clear to all of us. It says here that the changes in the Law did not concern SOFIBOR. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, did we not realize that since July 1st SOFIBOR has been buried? He's gone! The central bank refused to calculate it and publish it. The question arises from a child in the first grade: and who will make SOFIBOR from 1 July? Do you know what the answer is? Nobody! The central bank has not moved a finger to organise another institution outside the Bank Association to do SOFIBOR. Today, May 16, 2018, 10:45 pm there is no SOFIBOR! The main part of the loans in Bulgaria are SOFIBOR! Isn't that clear? How not to concern SOFIBOR and what will banks do now, what was SOFIBOR? Minus 0.495 is, there's no bank around the world that likes negative interest rates, they don't want negative interest rates. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Once nothing is said, the question arises: who will do SOFIBOR? Can I predict who's gonna do it? Most likely there are already a group of young people who under some thick shadow are preparing to make a nice index for commercial banks, in some of which they are involved. If that's not clear to you, let me inform you! In conclusion, from 1 July SOFIBOR was buried! He's not the most irresponsible! The Bulgarian market remains without SOFIBOR! It remains with LIBOR and EURIBOR "very well." Then, if they hang on to EURIBOR, but they won't, the interest rates will be even lower. If you vote on this law, in a few months we will come out here, there are protocols, and we will see where the interest rates are moving, and then political responsibility will also be borne as elections are coming. If you want to lose choices, lose them, it's your business. Have a nice trip. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u67	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Third line? Mr. Kirilov, come in. The lines are for Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u68	Thank you, Madam President, including the clarification that the lines are to colleague Yordan Tsonev. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Tsonev for the correct presentation he made of the circumstances in relation to the debate in 2014. I would also like to join the conclusions that were directed against manipulation, because in any case, anything could be manipulated if we had a bad conscience or, by God, a criminal intention. You can manipulate not a stock index if you talk about this sphere. Manipulating denominations, manipulating securities, anything man-made can be manipulated. The point is that what can be manipulated can be reacted quickly, i.e. with a quick, adequate response, with a quick investigation, can be established both the source of manipulation and the exact data can be established. I would like to say the following: somehow the debate started along the line of suggestion and should not continue in this direction. I use the case to replicate as follows: Mr. Tsonev, I think there will be SOFIBOR after 1 July. Here the issue is not up to the specific index, to the specific benchmark. The question is to have the legislative emptiness completed. Here I ask very much that we be careful and that this is an original legal question, so I will take the opportunity to make a statement for this reason because we are trying to instill something deliberately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Tsonev. Tell me more about the SOFIBOR index.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u70	Alas, Madam President, I will not say anything new, because there were virtually no lines to my basics. Mrs. Stoyanova joined me both in the form of a line. The first, that the indices that were made then, at that time acted, was taken the first step towards some anchor. The second thesis is that dropping SOFIBOR will not affect interest rates either directly or indirectly. That is what my fellow Member, President of the Legal Commission, said. Now to Professor Gechev. Once again, Professor, yeah, you're right, SOFIBOR is out. I argue that dropping an index based on the data of eight banks is one third of the banks in Bulgaria, even less, in no way can it affect, as long as we have a basket of indices. It is not true that SOFIBOR concluded most of the loans. Each commercial bank chooses what index and which anchors to use, and the client has the right to challenge this and ask for another. Tell you, by claiming that SOFIBOR is negative and you're right at this point, are the others positive? That's interest rate policy right now. I insist, and here is perhaps the only thing we're passing between us and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. I submit that on this issue BNB should have a more active role........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what I'm saying, yes. That's gotta be it. My opinion is that if SOFIBOR is not there, the BNB should make sure that there is an index that is on a much wider basis and propose it and if we have to impose it in the legislation or regulations. That, yeah. Now let's insinuate from this tribune of the people: be careful if you are relieved that the interest rates were such because we provided them to you with the Law, and now they will become so because the Law removes these anchors, this is definitely false. I want to tell that to the people of this tribune. Every time he goes to reopen his credit, if he has to, he has a right not to overreact, the way the bank wants him to. What's he gonna do? He'll defend his interest because the law gives him that right. The bank cannot do it without the consent of the borrower, cannot do it and this is the biggest protection. What else is it based on? Professor Gechev, have you seen what the allowances are and on what basis they are? As SOFIBOR is negative, why are the interest rates 6 - 7%? Minus 0.4 SOFIBOR, plus 8 points above so goes. Well, what protection do you provide with SOFIBOR then?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u71	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u72	The answer is no, absolutely no...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u73	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u75	Thank you. Statements have been made by Mrs. Stoyanova and Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u76	My fellow Members, it is no accident that the debate of this tribune has shifted from the substance of the bill we are talking about. It is no coincidence that Mr. Gechev tried several times out of this tribune to suggest that a possible increase in interest rates would actually be the consequence of this bill. Whether SOFIBOR will have it from 1 July or not, it is a matter that will be resolved because it is likely that SOFIBOR will have it. Whether it's done by the BNB or by someone else doesn't matter, because it's not who does it, it's what data and by whom it's being passed on to claim that it's being manipulated differently from now on. The replacement of the SOFIBOR cannot be done. Mr. Gechev claimed in his ass that he couldn't do something that the bank would invent. It must be replaced by a relevant benchmark, one that exists in the EURIBOR, LIBOR, LEONIA, EONIA and so on. These are also benchmarks such as SOFIBOR. It is argued that the replacement of SOFIBOR would lead to an increase in interest rates if replaced by some of these benchmarks. The claim is an absolute lie for the simple reason that, honourable Members, here are the cameras [[shows documents]] how SOFIBOR and LIBOR moved in recent years since 2013. The upper part of the chart is our SOFIBOR, the lower with the lower levels is the EURIBOR.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u77	They're both dropping.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u78	You do realize that if you replace the SOFIBOR with the EUROBOOR, it will just drop even more the levels that are now zero because they cannot be minus? You know, you don't just say that? The idea is this: if, by the end of this year or next year, or next year, for all kinds of reasons, interest rates rise because the world and the European conjuncture are such, these interest rates, honourable Members, cannot stay minus, it will be used by BSP to claim that they rise not because it is the world and European konuncture, not because they affect oil prices or other important raw materials, but because, you see, the bad GERB has done it with this bill. This is the goal that is being wagered today and which aims to be realized in a future period. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the bill we are currently looking at? Mr. Tsonev is gone, but in his speech he expressed doubts as to whether this change was necessary or not to be done in this way. I firmly say that this change is absolutely necessary and it, I strongly state, is in the protection of Bulgarian consumers. Only because of the protection of Bulgarian consumers is submitted this bill. What does it say? Most of it, the creation of the new paragraphs in art. 58, para. 5 and 6 say one text of Regulation EU 2016/1011, which was repeatedly mentioned, one to one text transferred to the Law. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that when there is a regulation, it does not need to be transposed into national law, it acts directly and immediately. We didn't have to write that text at all, put it here. We put it because Bulgarian consumers, thousands of ordinary people do not read regulations, but they would rather read a law or at least their consultants would point them more easily at a text from a law which, again, I say: one to one is the regulation and we are in no way obliged to transpose it into the Law. More important is the other thing that follows in para. 6 as well as in the following "Transitional provisions'. Alinea 6 we have actually created it, precisely to ensure the Bulgarian consumer that the possible exchange of one benchmark with another resulting from this change in interest rate should not exist, because there will yet be replacements of benchmarks. The interest rate calculated after the swap must be equal to the one before the swap and agreed. This change must be communicated by the relevant bank and renegotiated with the client under the Law on Credit Institutions, under the Law on Consumer Credit, under the Law on Loans to Consumers, as recorded and applied now. What's wrong with that, huh? Maybe we shouldn't have written it? Let me also say another important point, which is in the Real Estate Credits Act. It's al. 8 in art. 25 which we create with this law and which actually says that the provision of art. 41, para. 3 in cases where one index is replaced by another, it shall not apply. What does it say in this article? 41, para. 3? This is the only text in all the laws in which it is said that if the consumer wishes to change the bank if he wishes to repay his loan early because he has his own funds or from somewhere else is financed under more favourable conditions, and this happened in the first year of the date of conclusion of the consumer credit agreement for the purchase of real estate, he owes a penalty fee. We say that this will not apply when he is motivated to repay his credit early as a result of changing one benchmark to another. That's what the law says. Everything else is a lie! And if we hadn't made this change, we are trying to guarantee the Bulgarian consumers, not because of SOFIBOR or because of someone else. We are doing it because by 2020, under the regulation in question, there will be a change in all benchmarks. The way benchmarks are now calculated will be changed on the basis of real transactions.. what the Bulgarian National Bank calculates. We have such a benchmark and it is the basic interest rate. What the Bulgarian National Bank has done well before all other central banks, including the European Central Bank. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "What has she done?")(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Calculates a benchmark based on real transactions. This has done, not based on quotes submitted by one another or five, six banks. That's what the BNB did. This will be done by the ECB in the coming years, because from 1 January 2020, the way in which all these benchmarks are calculated will not be the same and, most likely, they will also not exist or will not be called that way. Honourable Members, dear users of this information that flows from this platform! Be critical of the information, think, reason logically to separate the truth from the lie to separate the manipulation from what is really happening through this bill. Because a technical change, which at this moment has no meaning and will probably not have in the coming moments, from this tribune becomes a bet on a political mine. It's not a coincidence to do that! Because it was no accident that the speaker spoke of elections, losses and profits in these elections. That's the point! To this end, in fact, it turns out to be a hostage, God forbid I am right, God forbid what I say is true, but a hostage turns out to be the Bulgarian banking system and the Bulgarian consumer. I hope that's not true. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? Professor Gechev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's continue, Mrs. Stoyanova, short and logical reasoning. You said: "Stay calm, children, there will be SOFIBOR. " I did not for a reason very clearly suggest that someone is preparing to make SOFIBOR. And you know it. By the way, this project, which has been submitted, is not a secret project which, colleagues, has been developed according to our information from BNB. It is perfectly normal for them to use the MP. And we have imported projects of public institutions to enter parliament. They did not give any written opinion. Again, the Credit Law is changing and no member of the seven-member Board of Directors has come. So far, no member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Banks has come. Who's gonna make this new SOFIBOR? To date, there is no such index. Secondly, the other indices were lower! Do you think that the Bulgarian commercial banks, naturally, chose SOFIBOR because this is the Bulgarian market and, secondly, because its minus is minus 0.495 less than the minus of LIBOR and EURIBOR? You think the Association of Banks supports this law. Why? Because he's gonna get lower interest rates on credit?! Doesn't that tell you it's very strange, extremely illogical, to put it mildly? Therefore, tell me! Mrs. Stoyanova, do you know who's going to do SOFIBOR? Who are these guys, who prepares them, where they are, what will this index be called? Pazardjikbor, something else has to be said! [[Noise and lines.]] What's not gonna go up? We'll see who's lying and whose prognosis is right, because that's not my prognosis. These are predictions of numbers. You have shown the trends of SOFIBOR followed LIBOR and EURIBOR. What's next?! The sun? Of course he'll follow them, it makes sense in the market. I'm telling you for the last time. Vote any way you want, but liability has a printout of each of you, immediately after 1 July you will see two things: who are the guys who do SOFIBOR, honourable colleagues, with the three names and CNN. It'll be very interesting. And if there is no such index, it will be interesting what will the Bulgarian commercial banks choose and will the interest be lower?! Because I, relying on common sense, always think that there is no normal banker who would prefer lower interest rates on credit, as banks have quite normal legitimate interests. Have a good day! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u81	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Dear Members of the National Assembly, before we continue, let's congratulate the students from Private elementary school. Sofia, who are here at the invitation of Mrs. Fikirliyska. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, since the debate has long exceeded the technology of calculating the indices to which the commercial banks adhere for determining interest rates, and is already affecting the interests of the borrowers, the role of the Central Bank and the mechanisms for carrying out control by the Central Bank of the commercial banks, I would like to put the issue to you in the following way: You, as you put it, do you not think that the control of the Central Bank in respect of the commercial banks in Bulgaria has been compromised in the most obscene way possible in the last two years that four billion have been blown away? Can you explain to me which BOR was calculated the interest rate of CCB? Four billion have gone! Who was watching for those interest rates then? In what way was the control carried out by the Central Bank? Who took responsibility for this job? And all these accounting alabalistics that you are trying to explain here from the stands, how do they affect the overall rates of interest rates in Bulgaria? The most simple grocery accounts, I apologize, we are trying to dress them here in a variety of indicators, which ultimately lead to full liberalisation of the market of the interest rates of the loans in Bulgaria of the commercial banks, without any control from the Central Bank. What is currently happening with these amendments is limiting the ability to control the central bank's interest rate market. If you think it is only the interest of commercial banks that can objectively regulate the levels of interest rates on loans in Bulgaria, I think you are sticking to a very outdated technology of control over credit markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Is there a third line to Mrs. Stoyanova's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Stoyanova has the word for the doppelganger. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u84	Mr. Zablyanov also joined the BSP's heavy political artillery. I will refrain from commenting on his line because it is still made by a man who is not a specialist and here his technical alabalistics, as he formulated them, obviously did not get to him or listen carefully. That's his problem. There was one part of the line to which I would like to say yes, with the new BNB regulation and each Central Bank will also perform the supervisory function above the way the benchmarks in question are calculated. Here I will return to the line of Mr. Gechev, who repeated two things again from this tribune. The first is that some young people will calculate SOFIBOR. For the last time, I'm telling you it doesn't matter who calculates it, but on what basis it's calculated. Secondly, if you see it, it will be replaced by some other possible benchmark that is more profitable for banks. Mr. Gechev claims that SOFIBOR is the most profitable, and I say to you that in the years it has always not only followed, but has always been higher than the European BOR. So what he's talking about one more time is not true. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! As we see that the tone is sharpening and the pre-talking in Mrs. Stoyanova is really starting to insult the MPs [[GERB noise and lines]] in the way he expresses his opinion. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Since Mrs. Stoyanova didn't write this bill, she's just an importer. Here, in plenary, we have invited a sub-government of the BNB. Let the respected by all of us Mrs. Stoyanova come out on the stand and start answering the questions of the MPs, and not putting Mrs. Stoyanova in such an awkward situation in order to bring insults to fellow MPs. Let us, since this bill is prepared in the BNB, come out the BNB Governor and explain what requires SOFIBOR not to be calculated anymore in BNB? Who will calculate the SOFIBOR who will be the people? What is happening now and will this benchmark even exist? Someone has to answer these questions and this can only be the BNB institution. To stop hiding behind the MPs, to come out here on the stand and give a clear and concrete response to the opposition and to all Bulgarian citizens who are excited about what will happen after the adoption of this bill. Please, we've already invited the BNB's undermaster to come out and answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[(Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova:]] Let me get this straight. In the manner of conduct, two remarks were made, one of which was an insult made by Mrs. Stoyanova, which I do not see in her statement. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] That was a quote and he was symbolically dressed in quotes. Next, the invitation to Mrs. Stoyanova stands, that's reasonable. When she wishes and gives a sign, order the stand and she will be able to take an attitude. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u88	There's no personal explanation. I'm the one who made the back of his line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u89	Mrs. Stoyanova, let's give it a chance... [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Loud noise and lines.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, don't replicate me. The word for personal explanation is Mr. Zablyanov. After that speech Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u90	Mrs. Stoyanova, I mean, I don't feel affected by your statements. [[noise and lines]] And I'd like to make a recommendation. When, as you said, it is about finances here Mr. Tsonev also speaks, you should not talk to such pathos. The question of what you have put as a main topic, namely the central bank's regulation mechanism for commercial banks, is not a question of any higher financial logic and higher financial thought. It reflects directly on borrowers in a very simple and simple way. That's what I meant when I talked about alabalism. I didn't mean your speech. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u91	Enough, it's become clear what the point is. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u92	Mr. Chairman, I am extremely disappointed with the way you have led the meeting in the last two or three minutes, giving Mr. Jablyanov the opportunity to get a personal explanation of the duplicate on his line. It's outrageous first. Maybe now you can give him a personal explanation because I mentioned his name in a moment? Secondly, Mr. Zablyanov did not make a personal explanation because he here, from this tribune, clearly explained that I did not affect him, because I really did not affect him, and when I said the word "alballistics" it was simply a quote from his speech. So you once again violated the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, by giving the opportunity to continue your personal explanation, which turned out to be not a personal explanation, but a recommendation. Please, these rules are Law, and if we in this House are not doing what we voted to do, what are we talking about outside this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You yelled at me, except from a place and from the stands. I'll take a note on that. I thought it was important to clarify these issues. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the opportunity to conduct yourself. Here you go. But only in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I call on you, when you argue with the MPs from the stands and from a place, even from the ruling party, to take their word away!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u95	Thank you for this note. We are continuing in essence a discussion of the Bill. Mr. Kirilov has made a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't like the debate either, but I'm not gonna make an objection in the way it is. I'll start with this. I had a few key things I wanted to start with, but I'll start with this. This is not an accounting debate, colleagues, nor is it a stock debate or an economic debate. In this debate, we must adhere to fundamental legal principles and comply with these legal principles. The specific amendment is a purely legal amendment. Whatever you want to think about indices and benchmarks, here, as Mr. Tsonev rightly pointed out, is about the realization of contractual freedom, about the freedom to negotiate. Mr. Gechev really wants me to answer him, I'll answer him. I won't hold back. We're listening to all kinds of improvisations here for an hour. I'll answer. I'll light up, I'll put Faust in this exhibition, so you'll be aware and calm. Indeed, the problem would be legal because it concerns a number of contracts. Since in 2014 the legislator allowed himself, Mr. Gechev, to intertwine in the contractual freedom between the parties, he gave parameters suppliing some of them. These limiting parameters concerned respectively dynamic indicators which could be the subject of negotiation. We then quite harshly, quite harshly in that parliament, gave limits, including non-bank loans. I do not comment in detail on these grounds because at the time, even though GERB was opposition, Mr. Gechev, then GERB partly supported some of the ideas concerning the status of credit contracts. Why did Mrs. Menda Stoyanova explain to you because the real loanee in some cases had to receive an increased protection. Yes, in that debate it turned out that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova had withdrawn my proposal under the Credit Institutions Act and we had a very strange debate. I thought I didn't download my offer, it turned out to be downloaded.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u97	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u98	It turned out to be edited. The proposal was to amend the Law on Credit Institutions between first and second readings. But, as the speakers said, there are enough transcripts, there's enough evidence for that. I'm on my way. Mr. Genchev, and other gentlemen of the BSP, I wrote this text together with my fellow experts in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We wrote an initial draft for three paragraphs concerning the application of the two regulations. Again, because these problems relate to many contracts and could lead to a campaign of mass negotiation or re-negotiation like here on everything Mr. Tsonev said was absolutely right, I will not repeat it again. I consulted respectively Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who reacted, said: "Abbsourd, without BNB, without prior consultation with BNB, this should not be imported. As a result of this coordination, the editorials concerning the communication appeared in the texts. And indeed, I admit that we, as typical ordinary lawyers, are not oriented throughout the entire procedure, which is under the Credit Institutions Act, and I do accept that the supplements that we received informally at editorial level, in working order, are useful and further develop the Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u99	No, they don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u100	Okay, Menda says: they don't develop it, they apply it, but they are in any case useful to the parties to the contract. So far I continue to insist and say: this is a treaty, that is, the will of the parties here is sovereign until the moment it is not achieved, no agreement has been obtained. With regard to this SOFIBOR or another BOR. We dealt with the principle issue. There's a risk of emptiness. There's a risk of confusion. There is a risk at some point that the contracts will not be executed, respectively, that there will be a dispute between the parties. We felt that, in this case, we should react. Yes, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is right, the regulations that I apologize for calling them direct applications in one of the lines, but the direct application requires a mechanism of adaptation. We therefore proposed the three paragraphs in question in the three legal acts. I know there's a negotiation going on. I'll be honest with you. I know there's a negotiation going on. The work the BNB has done so far to be continued, to be continuous, to have such an index from the "Thomson Reuters." So... I'm not gonna talk here and explain... [[Heckling]] Here I will not explain and specify, but I have the deep confidence, you will have the opportunity to reply that this index will remain, and each borrower has the option to renegotiate and choose the corresponding index. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Professor Gechev, the first line to Mr. Kirilov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kirilov, this is a specific area. You don't have to know all the things, but for your information, as you are the head of the Legal Commission, Member Kirilov is an information agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u103	I said Thompson Reuters!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u104	It does not make such indices EURIBOR and others. She published them! If SOFIBOR is maintained, hypothetically, there is no answer to the question: who will do SOFIBOR, here is buried the dog, this is the interesting question. In Bulgaria, SOFIBOR will be done, it will not be done in Brussels or in London, and "Reuters" will publish it, these are different things. That's good, you said you knew you were working and preparing SOFIBOR. Share with the National Assembly before we vote who prepares this index! Secondly, in 2014, you said that we changed the Law so that we violated the freedom of negotiation. Only, dear colleague, we were...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u105	We've narrowed it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u106	No, be careful, we've narrowed it down. Let me put it this way: Dear colleague, Bulgaria was the last country of the European Union, which, in your opinion, limited the bank's noon robbery to determine what interest it wants, only Bulgaria, the last country in the European Union! So the whole of Europe restricts them, but you want to freely conclude their contracts, that is, thousands of Bulgarian borrowers and companies, by going to the bank's rug and telling them: 12 percent, 9 percent, 14 percent. Who will regulate this process? All over the world it's regulated by central banks, but no, we're gonna leave them out here. And in fact you are now doing two things: first you leave them at large. Why are we changing the law? Once again, let me repeat that question. Didn't we write in the Law: either they choose LIBOR, or EURIBOR, or SOFIBOR, or a combination of them, or another NSI index and so on? What requires that we amend the Law, since it will drop SOFIBOR, to go to EURIBOR? Once again, my fellow Member, there are no banks that will choose the lower interest rates on loans! There's no bank like this in the world! They won't choose lower interest rates, they want to untie their hands and raise interest rates. And very soon it will be known, dear colleagues, who is wrong and who is right. If I'm wrong, it's okay, interest rates will stay at the same level, only it makes sense, and that logic is recorded in the European Central Bank's documents, which starts making a benchmark with others.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u107	But they're not good.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u108	In addition, finally, Mrs. Stoyanova, you say that the indices LIBOR and EURIBOR are changing, right? Right. Several hundred experts of the European Central Bank, of EURIBOR, are working, this is the International Monetary Council. It's their job to improve the index. What does that have to do with anything? I'm sorry they're going to improve the index? The manipulation of the indices, according to the European Central Bank, will be smaller. This has nothing to do with the adoption of this law. The fact that they will improve LIBOR and EURIBOR is great means that the manipulations will be smaller. Finally, really BNB to come out and say why they do not want to do this index and cause us these problems? What is your problem with you, since the directive honors you and says that you are good to do the index, and secondly, that the European Central Bank is also starting to make an index, but you do not want to and we deal here for hours. Tell us why you do not want and what you, the Board of Directors of BNB did to have a new index. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u109	Mr. Gechev, Mr. Gechev, the invitation is addressed to the guests, please do not seize the functions of holding the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u110	We've invited them here twice, let them come and explain!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u111	It is a matter of their desire, we cannot force anyone to speak from this tribune and vice versa. Is there another line? That was a first line. I won't. Mr. Kirilov's hole. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u113	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u114	Then I will respond to Professor Gechev's line, which was not a line. Prof. Gechev continues this is the third or fourth time in this debate to speak in the form of a reply within 4 minutes, which is a rude deviation from the Rules. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u115	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u116	In addition, I would like to tell the esteemed professor the following. Again, Mr. Professor, this is not an accounting debate, this is a legal debate. I am not at all interested in SOFIBOR, EURIBOR or LIBOR, I am interested in the possibility to convert, to replace, to change these indices. I'll explain this so you can stop manipulating. I have a contract, hypothetically, I don't have any credit contracts, but the entity X has a contract with the bank Wu and this contract contains the Z index, whether it is SOFIBOR, EURIBOR or LIBOR, and at one point this index is no longer available for technical reasons, for objective reasons, in the market context, I don't know what kind of conjuncture the index disappears, what do we do with this contract? What you're explaining is absurd. You have to complete this void. This contract, in general, if we look even through the prism of the Commercial Law, should be supplemented by the court. Can we wait how long to wait for the court to complete it? But it's a special loan agreement that has its own law to regulate it. Therefore, in the basic law, we give the rules that the European legislator has given. They act in every European country and act directly. The banks have already carried out the procedure and all commercial banks have deposited an action plan with the Central Bank that regulates them. That's why we took this decision as a typical decision and this protection is the most key interest in the interest of the truth, and you, as a socialist professor, whether you are an economist or not. [[(noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] You're supposed to protect him. Because we protect the borrower and give him the option to get preferential terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. It's 11:32 a.m., we're interrupting the recess hearing. At 12:00 we continue the debates on the bill [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u118	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the meeting with the discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Credit Institutions. Before the break Mrs. Stoyanova asked for a personal explanation. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since Mr. Gechev in his line to Mr. Kirilov turned to me, I really want to give a personal explanation of several things that he, addressing me, mentioned. First of all, I would like to say that I consulted with my colleagues from BNB and no boys and young people have expressed any desire, have not submitted any documents to BNB, as a supervisory and regulatory authority, to issue a licence to calculate a benchmark, whoever it is. Unless, of course, the youth organization of the BSP does not have such intentions, but has not yet realized them because, it was said that the youth will be these people. [[Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria: Is this an invitation, or a critique?.]] Secondly, I want to say about Reuters. Mr. Gechev said that Reuters does not calculate indices, but only publishes them. Mr. Gechev needs to know that "Reuters" has several functions and only one of them is to publish. "Reuters" calculates, has a function to calculate and calculate many indices that are important and benefit from European and world banks, as well as administer the calculated by them or other indices, which administration is used as an information base by all. And the last thing I want to say and it was, of course, on the occasion of Mr. Gechev's words, it is that at the moment there really are working groups not to improve these BORs that are currently being calculated because there is a regulation that clearly and accurately told how the indices should be calculated after 2020. And the working groups will not improve them, they are already improved by the Regulation, the question is about the technology in which this will be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other statements? Mr. Tarnovalysky is signaling. You're welcome to speak, Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the debate we have heard that the BNB has done its job. This is important to us, but it's more important to us whether we did our job or how. We've also heard that the financial system shouldn't have suffered tremors. We should be quiet, shouldn't we, if it might not be heard outside. Perhaps that is why this bill was adopted on May 2nd, was submitted to committees on May 3rd and was in a hurry to get up quietly so that there would be no tremors in the financial system. There is absolutely no way I can agree with this conclusion, even more so concerning Bulgarian citizens. This is important, and it needs to be known. He's not gonna create tremors at all. Here it was called for more honesty and this was not a law for SOFIBOR, but it was filling in the legislative emptiness. There is a regulation, it applies directly. I believe that there is nothing to fill out, but whether it is a law for SOFIBOR. It is obvious that it is, although it is not clearly written in the Law, since the majority of the debate was on this subject. Finally, it was said and asked us by the opposition what is wrong, which is precisely why I would like to say in my speech. The law supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions according to the reasons of importers created legal certainty and introduced the requirements of the Regulation. It has been repeated here several times that the Regulation applies directly and there is nothing for us to introduce, all the more so that, according to BNB, all banks have already fulfilled the requirements and reported that this Regulation has been introduced with its requirements. Regarding legal certainty, what legal certainty are we talking about with a Bill supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, which is the 14th? Notice it's the 14th amendment in the last 2 years!? This not only does not create legal certainty but creates a very serious legal confusion. What was the problem with including these changes in the Law that we adopted in March for payment systems? That was where the requirements of the Regulation were introduced. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] The decision of BNB is from March 2017 so this is not a reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u122	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u123	If you thought so much about the people, Mr. Kirilov, what was the problem with these changes being introduced in 2011 when we were changing the Credit Institutions Act again? Then there were both the Credit Institutions Act and the decision of BNB and the Regulation, which is from 2 years ago, since 2016. So this huge concern that you have demonstrated here is little for the cameras and for the microphones. All this creates enormous uncertainty and this is the bad of this bill. If we continue in this way to make legislation, the assessments for our work will remain the same. That is why I will not support the Bill, because in 2017, when we amended the Credit Institutions Act again, the debate was the same. What's the rush? Why are the proposals submitted on the 13th, on the 22nd the bill is already in the Chamber and has been adopted? This time, too, an attempt has been made to pass the amendment without debate, without making it clear what will change, on what it depends, since we have a clear regulation that is being applied directly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other MPs who wish to speak on the bill? Mrs. Stoyanova, I see you're handing out a sign. You have this opportunity, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for the opportunity to make a brief statement. Of course, I'll concentrate on the technical side of the matter. Before that, I would just like to say that this bill was technically not drawn up in BNB, it was officially consulted twice with us. The first time we gave comments to the Budget Committee, they were adopted, as far as I can see from the final draft, and the second time again we gave our comments. At a meeting of the Budget Committee, which took place last week, with Mr. Gechev mainly there was a similar debate. I then spoke in detail, but since now, of course, the circle is much wider and we are in front of the entire National Assembly, I would say again a few words from a legal and technical country. The new benchmark regulation is much longer, but I shorten it, adopted a few years ago, brings significant changes to the regulation of indices used for benchmarks in the European Union. To use indices for benchmarks means to use them for the purpose of measuring the price under financial contracts, i.e. to influence the case we are talking about on loans or other financial instruments and their price. For this reason, a very strict regulation, which is explicitly required for the first time in the European Union, is adopted under the supervision of a competent national authority. For illustration only, I would like to tell you that more than 10 documents, which are very serious, must draw up an administrator in order to obtain a license to administer a benchmark in the European Union, and a large part of the documents must also be public. This separation of the role of regulator from the role of numerator was the first reason to look at our activity in this direction, as we have now merged the quality of numerator and the quality of regulator in terms of SOFIBOR. SOFIBOR and SOFIBID are the two indices that have been produced under the 2002 Methodology, which was then modern, prepared in full analogy according to the EURIBOR methodology. It has undergone some editorials over the years, but the new regulation finds it anyway and it is necessary to review and decide how to proceed further. Maintaining an index of this type is an atypical function for central banks. As the speeches say, EURIBOR and LIBOR are also supported by private organisations and may be central bank units that continue to do so and are in the process of completing these activities. The total between these indices is that they are based on quotes submitted for different temporarys from a panel of banks. These periods vary from one day to another, for a certain number of days up to all months, from one to 12 months. This methodology is not really prohibited by the The second reason, which is important to mention, is that the Bulgarian National Bank does not believe that in these market relations there should be interference or administration on its part. It is better, as required by the Regulation, to comply with if it is to be carried out and to do so by a licensed administrator in compliance with all the requirements of the Regulation. The Bulgarian National Bank does not have such a legal function to continue maintaining this index. What we are doing and will continue to do is this: Bulgarian National Bank supports the LEONIA index, which was reformed last year and is now called LEONIA Plus. This is an index that is based on real transactions, I repeat, on real transactions in the overnight market, making calculations according to a specific public methodology, and each day a quotation is published. In what direction was this index reformed? If earlier there was only a panel of banks whose transactions were taken into account in the calculation after the reform last year precisely in accordance with the Regulation are now taking data from all banks. Moreover, every day on our website is published how many transactions have been made, how much are they worth and what is the interest rate that has been calculated as a result. On the basis of this methodology, the base interest rate is also calculated to date. In fact, what Professor Gechev mentioned and what the ECB intends to do, we are already doing, including all Bulgarian banks in this calculation procedure. As regards the legislative provision and the regulation, the Regulation does indeed have direct effect. This is the case, and perhaps for this reason in the legal changes adopted in March this year, there was no such provision. The regulation provides that it is possible to stop each index. This can happen for any economic or other reasons. Where an index used for financial contracts is suspended, action plans under the Regulation shall apply which are drawn up by the beneficiaries. In case it is stopped, they provide for what is replaced by what other index to be as close as possible and to measure the same economic realities. As soon as we were designated as competent authority of the Regulation regarding interest rates, the Bulgarian National Bank requested such information from the banks in Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. All of them have already drawn up such plans or are in the process of completing their preparation, and these plans, I repeat, concern all possible indices that benefit from what they would replace. The advantage of the legal provision proposed by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is that it guarantees the rights of the consumer and when performing such exchange of one index with another, never the interest rate at the date of exchange is higher than that previously. This is important because when replacing, some indices may be slightly higher and others slightly lower. It is important to ensure that as a result of this operation the rights of the consumer will be guaranteed. This would be the case when implementing the action plans, without the need for each client to be called individually. This is the other supplement that is important in the Law and explains that the order for the change of the reference rate will also be notified to consumers if such changes are imposed. With regard to the indices on the Bulgarian market, which are used, there are not many. These are: SOFIBOR, EURIBOR, LIBOR, LEONIA, which I mentioned, the basic interest rate and the monetary statistics of BNB, as required by the legislation in force. This will be the round of interest rates that will be enjoyed in the future. I would like to stress that we do not have any applications for a licence, from any of the new Regulations, to administer any type of index, existing, new, not even such talks, letters, nothing at all and no such initiatives. So the indices on the market remain the ones I mentioned. As regards the possible suspension of indices, the following should also be taken into account. There is a lot of talk about SOFIBOR, but the suspension of LIBOR is imminent in 2021 and this is made public. EURIBOR is in the process of very significant changes to the Methodology by which it is calculated. As a result of the Regulation, it is also unclear whether its future will continue to exist after 1..... 2 years........................................................................................... For this reason, that provision is good in our view, because, whenever such a situation occurs, it adds the Regulation, it explains with some national provisions on what mechanism to do so so that consumers' rights can be guaranteed. I think that's why I answered the comments. The Bulgarian National Bank announced the suspension of SOFIBOR for all the above considerations as early as March 2017. This was done with a press release, which was quite widely reflected in the media. During that time, the banking community had the opportunity to organise an administrator to take over. For the moment, as I said, no licensing documents have been submitted to us. There may be such an administrator from the European Union, and there may not be a license issued to date. The next time for action is the preparation of these plans for action in the suspension of the indices something the Bulgarian banks have done. These plans were presented with us at BNB. That's where I end up, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am closing the discussion and discussion of the draft in question. There's a vote coming up. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. We are going to vote on a Bill for Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act, No 854-01-30, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 2 May 2018. Vote 138 MPs: 90 against 40 abstentions 8. The Law on Credit Institutions was adopted at first reading. [[Noise and lines from GERB. People's representative Vejdi Rashidov wants the floor.]] Sorry, I didn't notice. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose that the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Radio and Television Act be discussed as item three on the agenda. I suggest a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u128	So you're proposing a change of agenda for today's meeting? Is there a reverse offer? We heard the procedure. I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Vejdi Rashidov to change the agenda of today's meeting. They voted 135 MPs: 110, against 2, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. One more procedure please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After adopting the procedural proposal for a change in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly, I propose: the current item 5th.. A bill to supplement the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of Requirements for Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, to become the fourth item of the Programme, that is to say, to be discussed immediately after the point.. First vote on the Draft for the Amendment of the Law on Radio and Television, with importers Vecdi Rashidov and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u130	Thank you. With the vote, the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television became the third item of today's agenda. For point four, you propose a bill supplementing the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation Requirements of Foreign Public Acts. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 120 MPs: for 89, against 11, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We move on to the item on the agenda in order proposed by the National Representative Vezdi Rashidov: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importers "Vezhdi Rashidov" and a group of MPs. Who's gonna fill us in on the report? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 854-01-31, submitted by Vejdi Rashidov, Stanislav Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov, Ivo Hristov and Danail Kirilov on 3 May 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 10 May 2018, a Draft Law amending the Law on Radio and Television was reviewed, No 854-01-31, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov, Ivo Hristov and Danail Kirilov on 3 May 2018. The bill on behalf of the importers was presented by the National Representative Toma Bikov. The Council for Electronic Media shall consist of five members, three of whom shall be elected by the National Assembly and two shall be appointed by the President of the Republic for a period of six years. The aim of the proposed legislative amendment is to repeal the provision providing for the decision of the National Assembly and the President's Decree on election, respectively the appointment of members of the Council for Electronic Media to enter into force at the same time. In practice, there is a gap in the time of entry into office of the members from the National Assembly quota and the President's quota. The Council for Electronic Media is not a term of office but a permanent body whose composition is renewed over a different period of time depending on the quota from which the members concerned are. Departure of para. 2 of art. 24 of the Law on Radio and Television will remove the existing contradiction between the norms and will enable the members of the regulator to take office from the moment of entry into force of the Act on their choice or appointment. The bill is accompanied by a preliminary impact assessment, does not require additional funds, will not lead to an amendment and addition of other regulations. After a vote was held the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously by 16 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 854-01-31, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov, Ivo Hristov and Danail Kirilov on 3 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. A presentation by an importer, please, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The draft amendment to the Law on Radio and Television provides that the provision relating to the decision of the National Assembly and the President's Decree on the election will be withdrawn, respectively the appointment of the members of the Council for Electronic Media to enter into force at the same time. In practice, there is a gap in the time of entry into office of the members from the National Assembly quota and the President's quota. Departure of para. 2 of art. 24 of the Radio and Television Act will remove the existing contradiction between the norms and will enable members of the Electronic Media Council to enter into office from the moment of entry into force of the act of their choice or appointment. According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, a preliminary impact assessment has also been applied to the Bill. The amendment of the Bill does not require additional funds. I will just add that we had practically no debate on the bill in the Commission, as well. In short, it is related to the inauguration of the members of the CEM and is now to take place such a rotation from the President's quota. If we do not pass this law, there will probably be a delay, as happened with the member of the Council for Electronic Media Betina Joteva, who after her broadcast as a member of the CEM stayed one year, in which the parliament waited to broadcast its quota so that it could take its position. On the other hand, this will practically suspend and file a case with the Constitutional Court, which is to be decided. We will remove, I would say, and this constitutional inconvenience. I call on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I am opening the debate on the submitted bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to state my support for this bill not only as an importer, I would say, and as a previous importer, that is, historically. The bill was tabled in this form about a year and a half ago, because indeed back in time, purely historically, the problem of the clearance of the mandates under both quotas has arisen in the parliamentary and presidential authorities of the SEM. The law currently mentioned has been applied one single time, but then causes mainly legislative damage to public procedures for the election of members of the CEM from both the parliamentary and the presidential quota. The colleague Bikov told you about the case of the previous election, meaning the appointment from the quota of the President of the Republic. Indeed, an indicative case in which a certain member of the regulatory authority could not enter more than one year due to conflicting interpretations. We also consider the fact that the President of the Republic has requested revision from the Constitutional Court on this matter and we believe that this revision has been properly requested. I see that Members of the parliamentary groups have no dispute on this issue, and for this reason I am limiting this speech. I'll personally vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. I am closing the debate on the Draft Law amending the Law on Radio and Television. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 854-01-31, tabled by Vecdi Rashidov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u137	Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedure to adopt the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television in the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u139	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Diana Sawateva. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u140	THE LAW OF THE amending the Law on Radio and Television It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 para. 2 is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u141	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the text of paragraph alone, as presented by the National Representative Diana Savateva. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Moving to the fourth point of the program: LEGALISATION LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONVENDENCE FOR LEGALISATION OF FREQUENCY PUBLIC ACTS. Foreign Policy Committee report, please, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2018. At a meeting held on 9 May 2018, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Yuri Sherk. The proposed additions introduce the decentralisation of certifications with the apostilles of documents issued by municipal administrations through the award of these functions to regional administrations. In this way, improvement of administrative service and reduction of administrative burden will be achieved in the performance of documentary certification with the Apostille. In the current legal framework, the certification activities with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The assignment of these functions to regional administrations would save time and resources to citizens living outside Sofia. With the proposed additions, each of the 28 regional administrations will take over the certification of documents issued by the municipal administrations in the relevant area. In practice, the award of these functions to regional administrations will not result in a substantial additional burden on employees in each of the regional administrations. For the performance of these functions by regional administrations, the existing specialized certification software with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be upgraded and implemented in regional administrations. In order to become regional administrations, a competent authority which carries out a certification with the "Apostille" should be added to the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts in 2013. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes in favour, without the votes of the President of the European Union, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the abolition of the requirement for legalisation of foreign public acts, No 802-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will present Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 3 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2018. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the meeting of the Commission. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Vanchev "Head of the Department of Consular Law Affairs, EU and Schengen" at the Consular Relations Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposed additions to the Law create the possibility of decentralizing the execution of certifications with the apostilles of documents issued by the municipal administrations and these functions are assigned to the district administrations. In this way the administrative service is improved and the administrative burden is reduced, as so far these endorsements have been carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils expressed support for the proposed changes. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke unanimously supported the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u145	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Here you are, dear Mr. Manushev, for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to a second vote the laws that have just been voted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose a second vote: THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts § 1. In the declaration referred to in art. 6, para. 1 after the words.. and its departments......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u149	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the name of the Law, the text of § 1, the name of the section "Concluding provision" and § 2 as a text presented by Admiral Manushev. Vote 108 MPs: for 101, against no, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Programme: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES WITH REGARD TO THE PRACTICE AND PLANNED SALE OF THE COMPANIES OF CEZ GROUP IN BULGARIA AND PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION. Importer is the Temporary Commission. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u150	Colleagues, I propose that we accept an extension of the National Assembly's work hours until the provisional committee report is read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u151	Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u152	Then, Mr President, I will make another procedural proposal: in view of the fact that the debates on the substance of the Report will remain for tomorrow, whether we can start with it tomorrow, because under the weekly programme, point seven is recorded as the first, and it makes no sense to make the Report today and the debate tomorrow will be after the seventh point. I propose that the discussions on the Report and the adoption of the draft decision be the first item of the tomorrow's Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u153	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Another suggestion? I won't. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the time of the meeting until I read the Temporary Commission Report. Vote 110 MPs: 34 against 8, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria The Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria was established by a decision of the National Assembly on 14 March 2018 with a period of one month. In view of the short duration of work and the subject of the tasks assigned, the Commission shall concentrate its work in two main directions: 1. Privatization of the majority stake in the capital of the electricity distribution companies in Western Bulgaria, held in 2003 and subsequent privatisation of the minority shares of the state in the capital of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria and CEZ Electro Bulgaria, held in 2012, and the post-privatization control carried out, as well as the degree of implementation of the objectives of the strategy for privatisation of the electricity distribution companies adopted in 2003. 2. Clarification of all the circumstances regarding the planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria: information about the buyer; the origin of the funds the deal is intended to be realized; what were the actions of the Bulgarian institutions in view of their legal responsibilities. In this regard, for the period from its establishment until now, the Commission held five meetings at which representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy, the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Research, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, KT. The available data were submitted at the meetings and additional information and opinions were requested from the competent state authorities, financial institutions and persons directly concerned with the subject of the Commission's work. Privatization of the majority stake in the capital of the electricity distribution companies in Bulgaria, held in 2003 and subsequent privatisation of the minority shares of the state in the capital of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. Factual ambiance The purpose of an analysis of the Temporary Commission of the National Assembly are the companies "CEZ Distribution Bulgaria" JSC owner and operator of the electricity distribution network of an area of about 35% of the total territory of the country and 40% of the total population, and the CEZ Electro Bulgaria "AD" electricity supplier of the same users from the same territory. CEZ companies have assets critical of national security. They are responsible for the security of electricity supply in Western Bulgaria. In support of the objectivity of the conclusions, the Report includes illustrative quotations from the requested and provided documents in the Commission, detailed in Annex No 2 to the Report. The strategy for privatisation of distribution companies in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 11 June 2003. It is characteristic for this period that Bulgaria is facing a number of serious challenges in energy, caused by objective circumstances, but also by the slowdown of reforms in the sector. The desire to adopt European requirements and practices in a timely manner is part of Bulgaria's ongoing negotiation process for accession to the European Union. Bringing the legal basis into line with these requirements is essential for the outcome of this process. The Energy Act adopted in 2003 aims to continue the reform of the sector, taking into account that a strong legislative framework will help attract foreign investors who would reduce household energy costs and improve the efficiency and reliability of supply. From today's perspective, putting the energy sector in Bulgaria on a market basis, as well as the direction in which it is developing, are in line with the EU's energy policy. At the same time, it must be recognised that, in the field of natural monopolies where there is no real competition, the objective liberalisation of the sector does not lead to unambiguous positive results. The then government adheres to an accelerated privatisation course, given the thesis that the state is unable to manage its businesses as a caring owner. Government action on energy restructuring is somewhat premature. The State shall be deprived of control possibilities in order to protect public and national interests. It is unacceptable to accept that another state owner of electricity distribution companies can do better with this activity than the Bulgarian country, and why Bulgaria provides important for national security and for the security of the supply of assets to a foreign country. In the short term, these actions have a positive, mainly financial effect, but in the long term they provoke negative consequences for the country. The first stage of distribution of electricity companies is described and motivated in the two strategies the Energy and Privatization Strategy related in logical order. The energy strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria since 2002 defines privatisation as only a logical means to achieve government priorities and relevant principles in European electricity sector legislation. Privatization shall be indicated as the sole source of financial resources necessary to renovate and expand existing electricity infrastructure. In short: the 2002 government's priority is rapid privatisation. Since the 2002 Energy Strategy review, the following findings can be made: Despite the negative assessment, no attempt has been made to correct the 1999 practice inherited restructuring to take place in the context of a growing regulatory environment. Conversely, it is confirmed, despite the recognition that it is contrary to world practice and experience of successful privatisation. In an effort to step aside in favour of private interests, the state is deprived of its powers to protect public interest in critical situations. The main attention of the Strategy for Privatization of electricity distribution companies in the Republic of Bulgaria since 2003 is to argue privatisation. The government objectives in it are very generally formulated and show no interest in the future of energy and protection of state interest. On this basis, it is difficult to accept that they are well-considered and subject to the vision of the future of the industry. The message is that they can only be achieved by privatisation. It can be said that by 2003 the government had no expectations for results or strategic positioning of the Bulgarian energy in the long-term horizon. The objectives are subject to the instrument for achieving them instead of the opposite: "The main objective of the Privatization Strategy is to attract strong and experienced strategic investors to invest and manage the ERDs in a long-term way. " The second point, in general terms, the privatisation site is shaped according to investors' expectations. The electricity distribution companies are growing into larger business units in a way that makes them attractive to larger investors. CEZ companies are the successors of the so-called package "West Bulgaria." In fact, the seven electricity distribution companies are included in three larger business units in total. The package "West Bulgaria" extends to 35% of the territory in which 40% of the country's population lives and has 40% market share. In comparison, the package "North East Bulgaria" has an area of 25% of the territory and its population is 25% of the country's. The package "West Bulgaria" is the largest in the country. It covers the most economically active regions. The package "West Bulgaria" is disproportionate and larger than the others. Therefore, the investor's responsibility to the Bulgarian consumers is relatively greater. The third point is, in general, the size of the share shares of the electricity distribution companies that investors acquire and the related issues. Investors' request is to hold management, operational and financial control. The majority of the shares are subject to privatisation, while the state retains the minority. No more arguments The strategy proposes to sell 67% of companies' shares. The remaining gold share is also eliminated in advance. Without questioning the reasons for the privatisation of the electricity distribution companies, the pre-selected pre-conditions give the candidate an advantage to a foreign investor over those of the seller in the face of the State. This way of allocating powers and responsibility in favour of the strategic investor in advance puts the State in the less favourable position. Withdrawal and deprivation of the ability of the State to actively participate in the electricity distribution companies after privatisation are detrimental to public interests. The last, probably the most important point, is the profile of the target investors. With confidence it can be confirmed that the selection criteria are high enough to ensure reliable operation and management of the electricity distribution sector. Investors are invited who already have experience in the sector and are expected to continue to develop enterprises in the electricity sub-sector and who are able to attract funds from the financial markets for capital investments. The criteria for candidates for investors of electricity distribution companies are as follows: 1. The volume of electricity sold, based on the data from the previous year of the competition, shall be at least 7 000gwh. 2. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of 3. The mid-term or long-term credit rating of applicants should be the type If the applicant does not have a credit rating, it should provide an unconditional bank guarantee or a certificate from an acceptable commercial bank that its creditability corresponds to the credit rating. 4. Experience is needed on a liberalized electricity market. The criteria are strict, with a high level of admission of applicants, which prevents the possibility of involving small or inexperienced candidates in the sector. In comparison, the annual volumes of electricity sold after 2009 by CEZ companies are in the range of 5000 We might note that the upcoming deal between CEZ and "Inercom" essentially does not comply with and does not meet these requirements in the Privatization Strategy. Inercom Bulgaria does not meet any of these criteria. According to the Ministry of Finance, the estimated amount of effective privatisation revenues in 2005 was 693 200,000 euros. The CEZ Group buys 67% of the package 566 thousand. BGN 145. The price per share amounts to BGN 4 262,14. The review of the privatisation strategy can make the following findings: The strategy is poor for a vision for the development of the electricity distribution sub-sector of the energy industry. Government objectives are extremely generally formulated and do not suggest any concrete expectations or expected future position of the country in terms of electricity. The concept of the document focuses on the implementation of privatisation. With regard to the balance of powers in the future privatized electricity distribution company, the seller-state is in a less favourable position. The State voluntarily withdraws from the management of the electricity distribution companies and initiates a process of full distribution of the electricity distribution activity. This creates a string of risks that enhance the vulnerability of the sub-sector by external adverse influences. It should be stressed that some compensation for the adverse situation in which the State is placed are the high criteria for investors and the reference to the powers of the regulator. The aim of the Strategy is to ensure budget revenues from privatisation, partially implemented. The net revenues received by the Bulgarian state are 546 million. 133,000. BGN 997. The second stage of the distribution of electricity companies is the sale of the residual amount of shares of the country on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. The sale of the residual State share of CEZ companies took place in 2012. 8 years after the initial privatisation. The possibility left by the 2003 Privatization Strategy is taken as an argument. The State should have the right to sell its shares at its discretion. Two key points are important for this extension stage, both of which are in serious conflict with good practices. Firstly, the decision to sell the residual shares of the State was allowed not to be taken by act and decision of the Council of Ministers, even though it was the final withdrawal of the state from the electricity distribution sector. In 2010, the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism and the Minister of Finance considered it appropriate that the residual state share in the electricity distribution companies should be offered for sale through the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. The first half of 2011 took place, generally speaking, in preparation of the sale of the state share of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. The analysis shows the following: On 2 November 2011, the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism requested permission from the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control to reduce the state share. On 8 November 2011, the Executive Board of the Agency took a positive decision and granted that authorisation. On 29 November 2011, the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism decided and agreed to make a non-cash contribution on behalf of the State to the capital of the State Consolidated Company equal to the sum of residual shares in the CEZ companies. On 8 December 2011, the Board of Directors of the State Consolidated Company decided to privatize the shares of the two CEZ companies, taking into account the decisions of the Minister of Economy and Tourism and the privatisation to be carried out by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control and the proceeds of privatisation to remain at the disposal of the company. By presenting the minutes of its meeting, the State Consolidated Company is asking the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism for coordination actions on the issue of proceeds. On the next day, the Ministry took a decision allowing the State Consolidated Company to make the sale, agreed the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control to carry out the sale through the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the revenues from privatisation to remain owned by the State Consolidated Company. In 2010 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 433 thousand. BGN, and "CEZ Distribution" JSC "81 million." 45,000. BGN 408. dividends, with the State in total receiving 33% of the participation in the two companies - 41 million. Seventy-seven thousand. £875. From the sale of its shares in CEZ in 2012, the State received 114 million. Nine hundred and BGN 385. Against 550 million. 566 thousand. BGN 145 received from the first stage of privatization in 2004 After systematization of facts and data about the sale of residual shares on the exchange may make the following findings: The sale of the residual shares of the State in CEZ companies was made although the return on capital was relatively good and approached the average levels of deposit interest in 2012 from 5.5% to 6%. With the sale of the residual share, the State loses the opportunity to participate with its representatives in the management and supervisory bodies of the electricity distribution companies. The chosen approach is not in line with the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, which is art. 8, para. 1 according to which the cash proceeds from the privatisation of the state participation in the capital of the commercial companies are paid in favour of the central budget and allocated in full to the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. In this case, the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism, after co-ordination obviously with the Ministry of Finance, ordered the funds to remain at disposal at the State Consolidated Company. The effect on the budget is that at that time 80% of the profits of state-owned enterprises are being paid to the state budget. This action was made because of the huge 2011 budget deficit of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or 2% of GDP and, above The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or 4% of the It should be pointed out that in 2004, the price of 67% of the shares of the electricity distribution companies was 550 million. 566 thousand. BGN 145. This extrapolated value of 100% of the shares as of 2004 of 821 million. 740,000. BGN 515. In 2011, the price of the remainder of 33% of the shares was 114 million. Nine hundred and BGN 385. By extrapolating the value of 100% of them, 348 million is obtained. 470,000. BGN 864. or 2.4 times lower than the original one. Given that during the 5-year post-privatization surveillance period until 2008, there were no distortions, it is logical to assume that the undertaking was making investments that increase rather than decrease the value of its shares. The way in which the decision to sell is taken is economically inappropriate and unfounded. The third section of the report is: clarification of all the circumstances regarding the planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria, circumstances related to the sale. On this point, the Commission has tried to clarify all the circumstances regarding the planned sale of the CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria, including information about the buyer, the origin of the funds the deal is intended to be carried out, and what were the actions of the Bulgarian institutions in view of their legally delegated responsibilities. About the buyer information. On 27 March 2018, the Commission held a closed session at which the representatives of the State Agency of Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security were heard. At the request of the Commission, information was provided from the checks carried out on the parties to the transaction. Further information was then requested from the special services on the sources of financing of the transaction, including the available data on the participation of Nikola Molchan in the transaction. The replies received by the State Agency "National Security" (National Security Agency), the State Agency (SCI) and the Office "Military information" (Military information) are summarised in Appendix No 1 with a Griff..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On 3 April 2018, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria presented to the Commission a reference to the case files and pre-trial proceedings concerning Inercom Bulgaria. The Attorney General summarized, I quote, that there are no and no files and cases against the persons. That is, everything that is exposed is the result of a search in the electronic information system according to the indicator name of the individual. The names of the persons appear in the search in the uniform information system because in these files and cases they were parties to leasing contracts. The subject of an investigation in the case and the signals made to us concern mainly the actions of the management of the branch of the Austrian company here in Bulgaria. The signals of the management company in Austria concern the loss-making actions and actions carried out by this management, resulting in damage, in general, to the property of "Hippo Alpe-Adria-Autofig". So the names of Ginka Varbakova and Slavcho Varbakov, as well as the names of companies that Varbakov manages, are practically related to their status as parties to such a lease. However, the criminal activity that is being verified, if any, belongs to the persons who have managed the branch of the Austrian company or its subsidiary here in Bulgaria. According to the data regarding an organized crime group for tax crimes against Mr. Varbakov, an accusation has been filed. A suspension was subsequently carried out by the monitoring prosecutor and this took place on 10 February 2014. The termination took place only on him, for the other members of the group an indictment was submitted to the specialized court by the special prosecutor's office. After the hearing of the Prosecutor General, a reference was requested from the prosecution's information array for the following 25 other companies, in which Ginka and Slavcho Varbakovi participated. Also requested and sent a reference by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office regarding checks and pre-trial proceedings against the person Nikola Molchan 16.2. In conclusion, we can summarize that against the owner of the Inercom Bulgaria "inercom" EAD Mrs. Ginka Varbakova and her husband Slavcho Varbakov are currently not doing cases. At the same time, their names are mentioned in numerous files formed by various departments of the Prosecutor's Office on alerts on crimes of a general nature affecting their activities directly or indirectly. Origin of the means by which the transaction is intended to be carried out. On this issue, the Commission concentrated its work on the basis of the received by the Prime Minister in the Secret Office of the National Assembly on 27 February 2018 a document quoting the sources for financing the deal by Inercom Bulgaria. A written question to Mr. Borisov requested information about the source of the document he provided. In his reply, Mr. Borisov informed that I quote: The document he submitted to the National Assembly was provided to an adviser in his office on the Czech side with the clarification that this is a summary of the information published in the Czech media. In order to clarify this, the Commission sent requests to the following banks. The Bulgarian Development Bank requested the correspondence of the bank with Inercom Bulgaria (EAD) on financial commitments, including letters and bank guarantees issued in connection with the financing of the CEZ Group asset acquisition deal in Bulgaria. First Investment Bank and UniCredit Bulbank requested information on whether they had made financial commitments, including letters and bank guarantees in connection with the financing of the CEZ Group asset acquisition deal in Bulgaria by Inercom Bulgaria. It is clear from the response of the First Investment Bank that correspondence has been held about the possible participation of the bank in the financing of Inercom Bulgaria for the purchase of CEZ companies in Bulgaria. They were informed that on 30 November 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 30 November 2017 to 30 November 2017. Inercom Bulgaria is a preferred candidate buyer of CEZ companies on the basis of a binding offer of the applicant on 15 August 2017. On 19 December 2017, the Bank issued a support letter stating interest in financing the transaction up to an amount of 80 million. Euros. The issue of a bank guarantee in front of CEZ was also discussed under the contract for purchase and sale of the shares, but none were issued. In his reply Mr. Levon Hampartzoumian, CEO of UniCredit Bulbank, claims that the information requested by the Commission is a professional secret and has already been provided to the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian Development Bank JSC replied that it did not participate in the financing, regardless of the instrument, accordingly it did not make any commitments to finance the Bulgarian Development Bank or related persons for the acquisition of the Bulgarian assets of the CEZ Group. The Bulgarian Development Bank's only correspondence with Inercom Bulgaria is limited to a letter of 12 January 2018 regarding the possibility of refinancing the bank loan granted by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. The company intends to acquire the business of CEZ on the Bulgarian market. With regard to the letter requested by the Commission, including other letters issued on the transaction, the Bank informs us that this constitutes a professional privilege within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act. Following these unsatisfactory answers, the Commission also asked the Bulgarian National Bank about the participation of Bulgarian banks in the financing of this deal. In the reply received the Commission was informed that the Bulgarian National Bank had conducted a study of the intentions of Bulgarian banks to participate in the financing of the deal you discussed. In the course of this study, there were no violations of the regulatory rules for carrying out banking activities. Please also note that according to art. 63, para. 1 of the Credit Institutions Act the information which BNB acquires or creates for the purposes of banking supervision or in relation to it is a professional secret which is not a professional secret and can only be provided under the terms and conditions laid down in art. 64 of the same law. The Commission reiterated the request from the Bulgarian Development Bank to provide the letter issued by the Bank on 12 January 2018 to Inercom Bulgaria. Despite the public assurances of the Minister of Economy as principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank that he will order this letter to be provided to the Commission, no reply has been received until this report has been prepared. At the meeting of the Committee on 17 April 2018, Mrs. Milena Stoeva, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Inercom Bulgaria, said that in terms of financing things are moving relatively organised. There are talks with the banks about the financing itself that are progressing. The key point is the Commission's decision to protect competition, because before that nothing can happen definitively, as the banks that will finance would also like to be familiar with such a decision. On 14 March 2018, we submitted a request for concentration to the Commission for Protection of Competition. We have provided all the information to the Commission. It is, I suppose, already working and will come up with a decision that we all expect. Despite all the attempts and the duly collected information, the Commission failed to establish what was the source of funding for the upcoming transaction. In essence, we were denied assistance by the Bulgarian National Bank, UniCredit Bulbank and the Bulgarian Development Bank, arguing that the information we requested is a professional secret. This raises a number of constitutional questions about the very place and role of the National Assembly. Despite the confidentiality of these private relationships, public interest should impose full transparency on this issue. Without clarity where the funding is from and how it is secured, we cannot be sure who will be the final owner of this socially important asset. The requested banks do not deny, but justify and apologize with a professional secret. From this it can be concluded that the information about their engagement in the process of purchasing CEZ assets from Inercom Bulgaria is correct. The bizarre secrecy about this only arouses doubts and speculation. Without the answers to these questions, we cannot be sure who will be the actual buyer of CEZ assets in Bulgaria. International practice shows that banks providing funding for transactions of this magnitude are usually proud to participate in the transactions and are not afraid to disclose it. Their participation in such transactions brings only positives. The actions of the Bulgarian institutions in view of their legal responsibilities Council of Ministers An invitation was made by the Commission to the Prime Minister for a hearing. Mr. Borisov refused to appear before the Commission personally, and in the written reply to us he said: "He can comment on the details of the deal related to the acquisition of the assets of CEZ Group Bulgaria because my statements in this case could influence the arbitration case led by CEZ against the Republic of Bulgaria, which has not been completed. In order to obtain the necessary information, Minister Vladislav Goranov will be present at the meeting you are organizing. The Ministry of Finance shall carry out the procedural representation of the Bulgarian State in front of foreign jurisdictions, including in international arbitration proceedings. The questions raised before the Minister of Finance were: why was the resignation of the Minister of Energy requested; has a proposal been made by the Czech side to buy back the shares; why does a government decide to sell 33% of the CEZ, and after the announcement of the deal this position is fundamentally changed and it is stated that the state will participate in this deal? Information was also requested on how and how the State's possible participation in this transaction was planned to be realised. In response to these questions, the Minister of Finance said: "In view of the public reaction and the numerous questions raised after the information about the sale of CEZ assets and enterprises in Bulgaria, a meeting was held with the Prime Minister on the topic with Mrs Ginka Varbakova. At this meeting we stated that we are ready at that stage in response to the public expectations and to the political claims of individual parties, MPs and experts that the Bulgarian state should intervene in this deal, despite the clear understanding that we are the rule of law and there are clearly established responsibilities, institutions, rules and procedures. We held this meeting and separated with Mrs. Varbakova with the agreement that she will have a conversation with the Czech side.................. if the Czech side is ready to allow the Bulgarian state to participate in such a deal. What I would like to say to you, however, is a consolidated position of all participants in the meeting at the time that we do not consider, despite the public interest, that this is the method of protecting the interests of Bulgarian citizens, including the Bulgarian state in a similar deal. We remain with the understanding that we have enough mechanisms in terms of legislative level and regulatory and existing state bodies that regulate competition and the energy market, and it is not necessary for the Bulgarian state to acquire and participate in any way in this transaction. I strongly state that the Bulgarian State has no intention in any way of participating in the acquisition in part or entirely in the initiated and unopened deal on the formation of the ownership of CEZ assets in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. To a written question sent by the Commission whether talks were held with representatives of the Czech government or CEZ to buy back CEZ's assets in Bulgaria, Mr. Borisov stated: "There were no talks with representatives of the Czech government or CEZ about buying back their assets in Bulgaria. At the same time, the same question in written answer by the CEZ is argued that since 2013, during the management period of each government, representatives of the CEZ Group have repeatedly proposed to various representatives of the Republic of Bulgaria a possible sale of the Bulgarian companies owned by the CEZ Group. The Republic of Bulgaria did not express a positive interest in the deal. We can make a few findings from the information we've made. Regarding the deal, there was no official government position, however, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova resigned, which was then not accepted. A meeting was held between the Prime Minister and two government ministers with Mrs. Varbakova, after which the government announced its desire to remain party to the deal and acquire some of the company's assets. Very unapproachable Mrs. Varbakova immediately gave up a third of the assets she wants to acquire, without expecting anything in return due to just one conversation, and went to Prague to negotiate how to do so. Subsequently, the government's position suffered a new 180 degree reversal and Minister Goranov said that there is no interest in the state acquiring any part of CEZ Bulgaria. Due to the differences in the answers it is not clear whether it was offered to the Bulgarian government to buy back CEZ's assets in Bulgaria. About the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. After repeated hearings by the Chair of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and a number of questions asked to it, the following information may be summarised. First question "Is regulatory checks carried out at CEZ Distribution Bulgaria " AD, CEZ Electro Bulgaria " and CEZ Trade Bulgaria " for the period from 2005 to now? The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission responds that every year it carries out checks, as well as during certain regulatory periods it also carries out an audit of the licenseds "CEZ Distribution Bulgaria" and "CEZ Electro Bulgaria." In addition, administrative criminal decrees are issued where they have found irregularities in the functioning of these companies. Several examples: carrying out an inspection in 2009, when 22 mandatory prescriptions are given with the corresponding deadlines for the implementation of the CEZ Distribution of Bulgaria. An audit of the activities of CEZ Distribution was carried out in 2013. The other check was the one that was carried out last 2017 when the three distribution companies, including CEZ Distribution Bulgaria, were checked for the implementation of their investment programmes. A deviation was found in the sense of non-compliance with the investment programmes and adjustments were accordingly made to the necessary revenue of the companies. The necessary revenue has been adjusted by nearly 8 million. lv. because of this non-compliance, i.e. they are reduced. In 2017, 190 complaints were received with respect to CEZ Electro Bulgaria and 190 complaints were received with regard to CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. Most often complaints are about reporting the billing of electricity related to dissatisfaction with the quality of energy and services. The second question: what acts for the identification of infringements were drawn up by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and what criminal decrees were issued on the basis of them for the period 2005 to now? Total property penalties of the two licensing companies amount to a total of 14 million. Fifty-fifty thousand. BGN, including 207, are the penal decrees issued in connection with an audit of the activities of CEZ Distribution of Bulgaria, where only this audit is subject to property penalties of 4 million. 140,000. lv. Next question: Are there open procedures for the withdrawal of the licence of any of the companies CEZ Distribution Bulgaria, CEZ Electro Bulgaria, JSC and CEZ Trade Bulgaria, and if any, when are they discovered and at what stage are they currently at? In total, there have been three procedures for withdrawing the licence of these companies so far. On 19 March 2014 the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission launched a procedure for the withdrawal of the issuance of CEZ Electro Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The withdrawal procedure was opened in connection with an act establishing an administrative infringement, which found that by failing to pay NEK EAD its obligation, the company CEZ Electro Bulgaria and consequently tied its payments with the satisfaction of its claims from NEK arising from other legal grounds. Such procedures were then opened to the three distribution companies. As a result, additional documents were first requested from each of these companies, open meetings were held with a hearing of the representatives of the companies, answering questions and requiring opinions. In 2016, a thorough examination of the documents presented, which are in impressive volume, began. First, the procedure with regard to the "Equipment Distribution' was examined, after a 9-month examination of the documents it was terminated in mid-2017. The second procedure which has been examined is with regard to the Energy-Pro Networks and it was completed at the end of 2017. At the moment, a Commission team is examining the documents of CEZ Electricity to complete the procedure within this year. Next question: according to the norm in the Energy Act. 53, supplied with property carrying out the activity of the licence can only be carried out in their entirety after the Commission has authorised it, does the Commission consider that the transaction between.... Inercom...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Ivanov's reply: "What is currently taking place is a private-law deal with the change of the owner of three licensed companies The change of ownership does not in itself result in the fact that companies having to be changed to the licence or companies having their licence revoked. Where a company has a new owner, regardless of who it is, the Commission shall continue to carry out its control functions in the same way in order to prevent public interest being jeopardised, secure the energy system and provide a quality energy service to businesses and citizens. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iv) 21, t. 23 of the Energy Act says that the Energy and Water Regulatory Service authorises the execution of an order of property with which a licence activity is exercised and the text ends: the energy undertaking. There is currently no disposal of the property of any of the three companies that are licensed. The law states that we can check if, for example, one part of the property of CEZ Distribution is sold, for example, transformer posts or, if you wish, substations. Then they're obliged to ask our permission and we're pronouncing. In this case, if we consider, and it will obviously be so that security of supply is jeopardised, as well as the entire energy system, we refuse and have a one-month period to rule in this way. This response was contested by Commissioners. According to them, KEWRC has not only enough rights, but also obligations to intervene now on this deal, but does not want to. The question of the members of the Commission how is the control of the implementation of the investments of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. The KEWRC received the following answer: There is an accepted Methodology for implementing the Commission's control powers under the Energy Act and the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act. According to the Methodology, current controls are carried out on the basis of annual timetables adopted by the KEWRC. In connection with the above provisions, an order of 12 April 2018 ordered the carrying out of a planned annual inspection of documents and on-the-spot work of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. The verification covers the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 and is to be carried out in the period from 18 April 2018 to 15 May 2018. The information received from the regulator imposes certain conclusions and raises a number of questions to its activities. What is the basis for determining the amount of investments for each subsequent regulatory period? How is the expansion of the system planned and with whom is it coordinated? How is the quality of the services offered guaranteed and certified, including accurate and timely reporting of electricity consumed, rapid emergency response? After the privatisation it has been found that there have been problems related to the quality of the services provided by the new owner, namely: frequent exclusions in the networks for medium and low voltage, large deviations from the nominal level of voltage. In the process of ongoing monitoring of companies by the regulator, it is found that they do not make enough investments to repair and operate electrical grid facilities, the quality of electricity is impaired. We may find a loss of confidence in the pricing mechanism due to the formal approach in examining the business plans imported by companies for the relevant price periods, the lack of unambiguous correlation between investment levels, the quality of services and the price of electricity for the end-user. Security services It is clear from the information provided at the closed meeting of the Commission with the representatives of SANS and the State Agency that since 2010 the services have registered CEZ's intentions for exit from the Bulgarian market. The information about this, the discussions with potential buyers and other interests are provided to the Bulgarian government and other competent institutions. The detailed information is set out in Annex No 1. The protection of sites from energy critical infrastructure shall be carried out on the basis of a procedure defined by PMS No 181 of 20 June 2009 to determine the strategic sites and activities relevant to national security. The analysis of the CEZ case has shown that critical infrastructure issues have been developed quite thoroughly, but only mainly from the point of view of terrorist threats. At the same time, there are significant risks of a technological nature, of natural disasters, of uncontrolled and society-threatening business interests, of mass riots and so on, which have not been sufficiently developed and taken into account by the legislation This certainly requires a clearer and more precise regulatory regulation, including a large part of the assets and activities of the electricity distribution companies in the energy critical infrastructure with clearly defined and institutional responsibilities for their protection. Are checks carried out by financial intermediaries on the CEZ transaction in their capacity as individuals under the Law on measures against money laundering? Conclusions and recommendations In contrast with the other European countries, Bulgaria has taken ahead of action in privatisation before the creation of the necessary reformed environment. Successfully implemented reforms are a mechanism for increasing the confidence of foreign investors and for ensuring the necessary particularly large investments in energy at low risk premiums and differentiated risk. Neither the Energy nor the Privatization Strategy defines the long-term objectives for which privatisation is being carried out. None of the governments that have implemented the stages of privatisation since 2003 make an effort to correct irregularities. The total revenues received from the two privatisation stages between 2003 and 2012 amounted to a net amount of 661 million. 54,000. lv. The general finding is that the 2005 privatisation contract does not provide sufficiently active instruments supporting its control. At the same time, the contracts give sufficient organisational and economic freedom to take action by the electricity distribution companies in accordance with art. 8 of the contract, in the event of a breach of which no sanctions are followed, such as the prohibition of transferring offshore companies, giving the contract a definition of an offshore company within the meaning of the contract. In breach of this obligation, there are no separate penalties provided for in the privatisation contract. The buyer agrees not to interrupt the provision of the services which companies are obliged to provide in accordance with the licences issued to them by the KEWRC under the Energy Act. In the event of a breach of this obligation, there are no separate penalties provided for in the privatisation contract. Increasing the quality of services, including the quality of electricity supplied, must be considered a strategic task with a long-term horizon requiring a lot of money and effort. The effectiveness of controls by the regulator does not meet expectations and should be increased by changing the regulatory framework and increasing its administrative and expert capacity. It is necessary for the KEWR to cover in more detail the problems of the investment process in the distribution company, as it is not effective enough. The implementation of investment programmes is largely due to the reported funds for new accessions and buying-in of energy sites and not so much for network development. Investments are part of capital expenditure and are reflected in the so-called Asset Regulatory Base. The regulatory base of the assets includes investment in detail justified by the company and has a direct impact on the formation of the price of electricity. KEWRC is an institution with regulatory and supervisory powers. The Commission has been granted a licensing power to issue, modify and suspend licences to the energy distribution companies, but has no power to authorise, respectively, to approve transactions with shareholdings in the licensed companies. The State has deprived itself of a necessary tool to protect the public interest. It is necessary to include a large part of the assets and activities of the electricity distribution companies in the energy critical infrastructure with clearly defined and institutionalized responsibilities for their protection. The subjects, activities and processes with a high degree of risk in terms of the interests of society, in the actual realization of which there would be significant negative consequences for large groups of the population or for security and public order in the country. A site classification system and processes shall be developed and implemented, accompanied by the relevant risk assessment methodology. From the extremely strong public response, which triggered the upcoming capital transfer deal of the CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria, including a final supplier and operator of an electricity distribution network, it follows that it should be subject to further analysis of the extent to which the control by the energy regulator should also be exercised over transactions with the capital of energy undertakings. In this regard, a preliminary event which occurred during the work of the Temporary Commission should also be emphasised. On 26 April 2018, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted amendments to the Energy Act at second reading. The amendment to the Law empowers the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to authorise actions by way of disposal of shares and shares representing more than 20 per cent of the capital of commercial companies engaged in licensing activities in the transmission and distribution of electricity, heat or gas, with a view to ensuring the security of supply, the protection of national security and public order. This transaction is an indicative example of a lack of legally defined mechanisms for the State to supervise socially significant transactions in energy. On this basis, the following findings and recommendations may be drawn: Findings: 1. At the first stage of privatisation in the period 2003 - 2005, in an effort to speedily implement the privatisation of electricity distribution companies, the state allowed the process to take place under the conditions of an evolving regulatory environment. This is subsequently a prerequisite for disputes between the State and foreign investors. 2. The decision on the initial sale of 67% of the shares deprives the State of the possibility to significantly influence the important decisions of the companies and thus to monitor the protection of the public interest. 3. The sale of the residual share of the State in 2012 does not contribute to the correction of the deficiencies already identified but, on the contrary, deepens them. The full deployment of the sector only partially fulfils the financial and strategic objectives set. It also leads to the risk of subsequent acquisition of national security key companies by companies that do not meet the primary objective of the privatisation strategy, namely strong and experienced strategic investors to invest and manage electricity distribution companies long-term. 4. From the Commission's work on the planned sale of the companies of CEZ Bulgaria. It is clear that the candidate buyer Inercom Bulgaria is unable to meet the requirements for an experienced strategic investor if the same was in force for the following reasons: - Inercom Bulgaria "EAD" does not meet any of the criteria Bulgaria has set as requirements for investors in 2004; - The representatives of Inercom Bulgaria....did not explain how and where they will provide the necessary funds for the purchase of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria. - The credit institutions asked in the course of the Commission's work essentially refused to provide the information necessary to clarify the question. An exception makes First Investment Bank, which openly announced its talks with Inercom Bulgaria and its interest through a letter of support for the financing of the deal of up to 80 million. Euros. 5. With regard to the actions of the Bulgarian institutions in view of their powers after the official disclosure by CEZ for the selection of a buyer, the Commission found the following: - The statements of individual representatives of the Bulgarian government can be defined as inconsistent. The most vivid examples of this are the stated but unspoken resignation of the Minister of Energy, as well as the sharp change of positions from a request for full control of the transaction until the refusal of any participation; - The Prime Minister's claim of 27 February 2018 that he was not aware of the development of the process of acquiring CEZ does not take into account the regular information provided by the security services to the Bulgarian government and other competent institutions about the intentions of CEZ and the discussions conducted with potential buyers; - The statement of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that no talks have been held on the purchase of CEZ by the Bulgarian state, goes directly against the assurance by CEZ that all Bulgarian governments since 2013 have been offered to buy back the assets of the company; - Following the debate in the Commission regarding the powers of the KEWRC, it was found that the regulator found no reason to control such type of transactions as it did on the occasion of the disposal of part of the property with which licence activities were carried out. A large majority then adopted the Energy Act PID, which gives such powers to the regulator. Recommendations: 1. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out an in-depth analysis on the implementation of the government's objectives in the adopted Strategy for Privatization of the electricity distribution companies in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision No 426 of 11 June 2003 and approved by the National Assembly on 29 July 2003. The subject of analysis and evaluation must be achieved technical, economic and social parameters. 2. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to revise PMS No 181 to determine the strategic sites and activities that are relevant for national security in its part............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Security services should provide a detailed analysis of their actions on the planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group in Bulgaria with regard to timely and qualitative information to the competent authorities of the executive. The analysis shall be made available for discussion to the Parliamentary Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. 4. The Bulgarian National Bank should provide in due order the National Assembly with information about the financial commitments made by Bulgarian banks for the upcoming deal with Inercom Bulgaria. Annex No 1 is a summary of the information from the closed session and the documents received by the Office of the Security Office with a Griff of the Privacy Shield. It's in the Secret Office. Annex 2 contains a list of all documents. Mr President, the Commission's report is signed with a special opinion of 10 members of the Commission. I still have to present the draft decision, which is on the same page, but maybe tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-16.u155	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, this concludes the work for today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 17 May at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted work programme. We're adjourned.
