ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules each parliamentary session shall be opened with the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. Please, let's be straight. [[Everyone's up. The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and the anthem of the European Union.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, this is the Fourth Session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Let's wish for a successful and fruitful job. I will present to you the Project for a Weekly Programme: 1. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Exporters: MPs Jemma Grozdanova, Ivelina Vasileva, Christian Vigenin, Krasimir Bogdanov and Polina Tsankova. 2. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2017. Importer: Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. 3. Draft decision to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. Importer: Zhelyo Boychev "President of the Temporary Commission." 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 8 February 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers: Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov continue. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers: Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Timchev. 7. Parliamentary control on April 20th, Friday, 9:00 p.m. to 14.00 p.m. Are there any speeches and notes? Please vote on the proposed Programme Project. Vote 174 MPs: 159, against none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted. We have no proposals in the order of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. Bills and draft resolutions entered from 4 to 17 April 2018: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer: Council of Ministers. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers: MPs Svetlana Angelova, Plamen Nunev, Irena Dimova, Dimitar Gechev, Kalin Popovski, Rosen Ivanov and Ralitsa Dobreva on 5 April 2018. Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Structure of the Area. Importers: MPs Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapreyan Yankov on 5 April 2018. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers: People's Representative Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018. On 5 April 2018, the draft decision on the approval of amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the Ombudsman's activities was submitted again. Importer: Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria On 13 April, the Annual Activity Report of the State Agency for National Security was received for 2017. It is a confidential and has been implemented Project for a Decision. Importer: Council of Ministers. On 13 April, the Annual Activity Report of the Office of Military Information was received. Secretly with the relevant Project for a Decision. Importer: Council of Ministers. On 17 April, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. On April 17th, a bill was introduced to amend and supplement the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer: Council of Ministers. On 17 April, a draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria was received. Importer: People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by its orders has authorised: 1. The deployment of a military ship with its military weapons and crew to participate in an American-Ukrainian exercise from 8 July to 22 July 2018, including the days for transition to the Odessa area, the territorial sea and the adjacent area of Ukraine. 2. Sending on 6 May 2018 troops from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Republic of Macedonia with the necessary equipment, weapons, equipment, road transport and two helicopters. The purpose of their stay is to celebrate the celebration of the Bulgarian Army and the memorial of the Military Memorial in Novo Selo in the Republic of Macedonia. 3. The deployment of a formation by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with a staff of military personnel from the armed forces to participate in rotational preparation at the US Joint Training Centre in Hohenfels, Germany, for the period from 24 April to 12 May 2018. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notifications were received on 4 April 2017 and 17 April 2018 by No 803-09-17, No 803-09-19 and No 803-09-20 respectively, and were submitted to the Defence Commission. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the residence on the territory of the country for the period from 2 to 6 May 2018 including servicemen from the armed forces of the Republic of Macedonia with the necessary equipment, equipment, equipment and equipment up to five units. The purpose of their stay is the participation of a representative unit of the armed forces of the Republic of Macedonia in a military parade in Sofia on the occasion of May 6.............................................................................................of the Bulgarian Army............................................................................................................................................... Participation in the military parade is not linked to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. The notification was received on 17 April. By letter of the President of the Court of Auditors, an updated audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2018 was received in the National Assembly with amendments to it. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Programme was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 April 2018: indexes of turnover in the section of the "Retail without car and motorcycle trade" in February 2018; indexes of industrial production in February 2018; indexes of construction production in February 2018; inflation and indexes of consumer prices in March 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, according to the parliamentary tradition, each session of ours begins with a statement by the parliamentary groups according to their numbers, and the Conference of Presidents agreed that the statements should be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television 2 and on the Bulgarian National Radio. I'm making an offer to broadcast the statements. Please vote. Vote 163 MPs: 162, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. We move on to statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary session went against the backdrop of the efforts of the ruling majority to work for Bulgaria's international authority, to validate us as a stable factor in the Balkans. We demonstrated consistency and maturity in consultations on issues of long-term impact on our country's development. The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union continues. We have been preparing extremely seriously for this commitment and are now pleased to see the positive reactions of our European partners. Bulgaria has proven itself to be a key and responsible reliable partner. We managed to moderate important and difficult debates. Since the beginning of our Presidency 1000 meetings have been held in Brussels, Sofia and Strasbourg, attended as participants about 10 thousand delegates. A challenge in the remaining months is the Summit of the Leaders of the Member States of the European Union and the Western Balkans, which will take place on 17 May at the National Palace of Culture. We are ambitious to adopt a declaration from Sofia in which the infrastructure projects planned for investment in the region are to be described in detail. The dialogue between the European Union and the Western Balkan countries since the beginning of the year has acquired new and operational dimensions. Our geographical co-existence has come to fruition, and we have an obligation to better defend our interests. We are staying in conflict and doing everything possible to have a dialogue so that we can continue for the better European perspective of the region. Undoubtedly the biggest success of the European Presidency has been held so far between the European Union and Turkey in Varna. It broke the ice that had long been frozen as relations between the European Union and Turkey. After Varna the tone softened, the debate returned to where it belongs, and we sat at the negotiating table. What was made as a commitment by President Jean-Claude Juncker after the end of the meeting he said there should be no doubt about the European Union's commitment to refugees in Turkey and the commitment with the necessary funding in this direction will be respected. In connection with the active role of Prime Minister Borisov in implementing the priorities of the European Presidency he was nominated as European Manager and Person of the Year. The award will be awarded on 6 July in Sarajevo. This is a great success for Bulgaria. Another undisputed success belongs to the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency. The procedural rules for parliamentary control over Europol's activities by the European Parliament and national parliaments have been adopted. Following the first meeting of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Control Group in Brussels in October 2017, no agreement was reached, the adoption of procedural rules took place in Sofia on 19 March. This guarantees and transparency for the Agency to be under this parliamentary control. This is the citizens' request from the European institutions. The creation of conditions for economic development and decent life of the Bulgarians remains the primary task of the government and the ruling majority. Resources to achieve this goal we see in the fields of education, administrative reform, the fight against smuggling, financial abuse and serious crime. We increased the salaries of Bulgarian teachers by 25%, believing that this will contribute to their motivation and preparation, which are the basis for quality vocational education, which will ensure good economic stability and prosperity of our country. The 2018 budget provides for more than half a billion. BGN, so that we can actually improve education, fulfill all our intentions and be able to prepare for what is most important the economic development of the country with well-prepared personnel. The most important step in education is that we managed to bring 22 thousand children back into the education system. There was an extremely good coordination between the institutions of Bulgaria, participating in this policy. Nearly 624 million. lv. will be implemented in the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" which will contribute to improving the educational infrastructure and will cover 416 educational institutions, including 13 higher education schools. The renovation of residential buildings under the National Energy Efficiency Programme continues. She's done work on 1065 multi-family housing. The work continues on the new 475 multifamily homes. Because of the interest in the Programme, options for its continuation under a completely new regulation will be developed and presented for public discussion. Health care will be invested in order to have financial, organisational and personnel stability of the system. Priority remains the care for the health security of the Bulgarians. The implementation of the Project for Modernization of Emergency Aid and the construction of the Single National Health Information System is under way. The existing administrative regimes for service in recent years have created major problems for both citizens and relevant institutions. The implementation of changes in legislation is being worked on. We are all witnesses that the Programme, which is envisaged by the government to implement the four-year management programme, is to change 50 laws and 70 regulations. We have maintained a trend for sustainable economic growth over the last few years. For the first time, we have reached gross domestic product of 100 billion. lv. In percentage terms, the growth of the economy compared to 2016 is nearly 4%, which gives us the EU's leading member states for another year. For 2018, the expected forecast is to maintain 3.9% economic growth, to reach 4% economic growth for 2019, which will enable us to meet the mid-term budget forecast for the period 2019. The minimum wage from 510 to 560 BGN should be increased in 2021. from 1 January 2019 to 610 BGN from 1 January 2020 and from 650 BGN since January 1, 2021, we believe that the state should spend only as much as it earns. There is no alternative to this maxim! In 2014, when GERB was in opposition, a huge deficit of about 5% was rapidly accumulated, which exceeded European criteria and did not speak of sound economic sense. We have maintained the trend of a constant decline in unemployment. Seven and nine is the monthly average of registered unemployment in 2017. These are the lowest values in the last nine years. Here I would like to share that with the ruling majority we managed to fulfil a commitment to raising the minimum pension of 161 BGN. 200 BGN, which as an increase covered nearly 1 million Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarian Parliament works transparently! During the first year of the work of this Chamber of the National Assembly, we reached a record for external visitors.. 7500 Bulgarian citizens visited the Bulgarian Parliament. Some of them had the opportunity to actually participate in public debates, which were related to topics such as the Istanbul Convention, the deal on CEZ, the management of dams, the future of the Commission on Files. This helps citizens to make their informed choices when debating such topics. Since the beginning of the year, we have adopted key laws. We must no doubt mention the ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation with Macedonia, which was unanimously voted by the MPs. We changed the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility by easing the conditions for entry and residence of highly qualified personnel and their residence in our country. And 2018 is key to fighting corruption not only because of the systematic implementation of recommendations under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. The ruling majority has already achieved the necessary coordination between the institutions operationally. During the last session, parliament elected the president of the new anti-corruption body. Often the talks on important topics for our country remained in the background at the expense of petty nagging, personal attacks and compromises. Since the beginning of 2018, we have hit a new bottom for the purpose of discrediting our governance during the European Presidency. On the left, they bet on creating fear in society. They made very bleak predictions that, of course, didn't come true. Many examples can be given in this direction from the collapsed fence on the border with Turkey, through which thousands of refugees enter and pass daily through the unprecedented biblical flood in Bregovo and we have reached Kardzhali district, which will be separated from Bulgaria. The fear game cannot be a profitable management technology because it does not generate positive public support. Fears cannot be built on anything, not a cause, not even meaningful criticism. He who feeds fears can be a successful opposition, but not a successful ruler. I would like to call on the opposition to support our efforts for the successful European Presidency. There are no political dividends from sabotage and demise. On the contrary, we can lose the trust of our Euro-Atlantic partners, built for years. How can we convince someone that we are working for a strong and united Europe and NATO, given that we are not consistent in the country itself? An example is the referral of the Constitutional Court to the SETA. This request of President Radev aimed not only at the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, but also at the implementation of European law in Bulgaria. The Constitutional Court did not accept the President's legal actions, masked as principled issues, supported our constitutional foundations as a state... a member of the European Union, and rejected the President's anti-European legal logic. To demand more light and transparency at the moment when our country is under the spotlight of European leaders and institutions is simply an expression of political inadequacy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And no poetic references to Goethe can mitigate that fact. The lights are on, Mr. President! It is imperative not to call for light, but to try to see the obvious that Bulgaria is going in the right direction and that our institutions are fighting for public trust with cases rather than destructive suggestion. In your opinion, Mr. President, there are no small and large countries, but those with large and small ambitions. You have set high ambitions for the students with whom you met their own and for Bulgaria. We are tempted to wish that your ambitions with BSP do not minimize our perspective to be part of a strong and united Europe and NATO and the Western Balkans be with us, because large ambitions are often born from large complexes. And it's bright enough in my house, Mr. President, to see all this! Now more than ever, Bulgaria needs a clear management vision. I would like to thank our coalition partners from the United Patriarchs. With them, we proved that when it comes to the interests of the country, minor misunderstandings go in the background. Yeah, we didn't always agree, sometimes our tone and communication were sharper, but we were able to work it out. Because we are adamant mainly in the fact that the government must fulfill its four-year management mandate in the name of Bulgaria. Honourable Members, I would like to believe that during the new parliamentary session, there will be a principled reasoned dialogue, with the right to parliamentary respect tone of our voters. I wish all health and successful, fruitful parliamentary activity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope this session will be successful for the National Assembly, but we would like it to be different. We want to do four things from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Firstly, there is no doubt that the European Presidency remains a priority and you do not need to invite us to this because I recall that at the beginning of the National Assembly we reached political agreement through a joint declaration of joint work on the European Presidency of Bulgaria, and I think we are fulfilling this commitment very correctly and precisely. However, we wish that there would be a change on this priority at least in recent months. Mr. Tsvetanov, this was not supposed to be spoken by you, but by the Prime Minister. Not once since the beginning of the European Presidency, the Bulgarian Parliament has been informed and has not discussed the topics of the European Presidency. We wish this session would be different and at least before the May 17th summit the Bulgarian government will engage the National Assembly and through it national energy for Bulgaria's good priorities under the European Presidency. On 16 May we have a meeting of left-wing leaders, commissioners and prime ministers, in Sofia, where we again present our vision for the future of Europe and for the accession of the Western Balkans. This vision of us, by the way, was included in the common and national of Bulgaria, for which we have reached a good agreement. Let us at least work on this topic together, but also ask the institutions in the face of the government to come here, where it belongs, and to say what progress is not only on the Western Balkans, but on cohesion policy, on the budget for the next programming period after Brexit, on the social pillar that has been adopted in Europe and on social rights. We have a lot to talk about, so we expect the prime minister to come here and take account of the European Presidency. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we want this session to be the time of viewing because we are satisfied with reading black statistics every day. Yes, the European spotlights have highlighted the following: we have melted with 400,000 more people and we are the nation that is the fastest disappearing nation in Europe. The spotlights in Brussels have highlighted that the most corrupt state is at the head of the Presidency. These spotlights say we are also the poorest country in Europe. What are we doing? We do, honourable Members, politics per piece, laws per piece, and we guarantee our people a piece of life. This is where we want this session to be different, not for today and not for tomorrow, but for years to come, to see the future. And we suggest the following: there are many problems in the country accumulated in the years of all. Let us choose three to say that we are beginning to decide, but long-term and we propose them to be: economy, production, Bulgarian economy. We are becoming an economy of services and less and less production economy, even less Bulgarian production. Secondly, this economy should be bound permanently and long-term with modern, high-tech education. China and the United States of America took a huge step along the path of artificial intelligence, we argued black and white or colored textbooks last year. We need another type of education, another model and as much as towel a piece of the problems, this does not solve the great.. our education is not adequate to the modern development of the world. Third, this is health care for us, but not as you suggest, we will find something in the laws of emergency services, tomorrow something else will be on the list of paths, but today the information has come out that 6,000 hospital beds are being closed today! This requires a new model of health care, a new system, not a piece of life, and people die on the roads because they can't get to a hospital. Our third priority is this new health model. If we achieve these things, if we start to solve them long-term, we will take a step towards our great goal of saving our people from demographic extinction and solving the problem of poverty. That's a distant goal for us. These policies are a means of achieving it. In third place, a glimpse of something else. These problems to decide that we're starting them, but there's one that nobody wants to say out loud, and let's start solving it. About us from several years old he is called "Paral State." For President Radev it is the darkness that holds these parallel figures that pull the strings of the state. We have an official state, some official institutions and some at the back who command the official ones who buy the official ones and who profit from it on the back of the people. We want this session to be the beginning of this recognition, of this viewing and of solving this problem. We have reviewed, serious analysis with professionals who are these spheres, who are those big ones standing in the dark, pulling strings and sucking people's vitals daily. And the spheres are as follows: manufacture and marketing of medicines. Who isn't on medication today? Every Bulgarian is affected by this monopoly and backstage. Production and trade in wheat and bread. What Bulgarian today does not use bread and does it not affect every family? Production, transport and supply of energy. It's an extremely dark sphere. And a few more that we have specified in this analysis, and which during this session will be our priority battle with the big ones. But who has character and courage here in this Chamber because we have to fight this battle, if we are honest and fair, and we do not just speak in words that we are for the lightening of the economy and we take care of the Bulgarian people? We are starting this battle with concrete proposals, with specific names, with specific bills, because we are convinced that these real steps will help our people and solve some of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, if you make bold and firm requests that you want to change a system, a model, put an end to the transition and lead the country in another direction, you have to start by yourself, you have to set a personal example. Do we all know that the gap between politicians and people is increasing? We know. [[Heckling]] Do we all know we're overgrown with privileges? [[Replying, shouting.]] We propose and will amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which takes away all the privileges of the Members of the National Assembly. I know what you're going to say: our fellow MPs in Germany are working for higher salaries. The German people receive higher wages. And if we are going to measure ourselves with the German MPs, let us first measure how the nations live. And don't tell me that's populism! [[Noise and lines.]] Because I ask you: which Bulgarian, besides the country's political elite, works on a salary that depends on the average wage growth in the country? [[Heckling]] 99% of the Bulgarian people work on a fixed salary, and we will raise our salaries every time the average rises. [[Noise and lines.]] By what right? That's not populism! This is a constitutional principle of equal rights. It's a principle of justice, not populism. [[Heckling]] How many people in Bulgaria rest over 70 days? 240. How can a miner for hard labor rest for 30 days and the MPs rest for 70? [[Applause for interruption.]] I know you don't accept it, colleagues, but we'll bring it in. If you reject it, it's your will. Someday, when we rule, it will come true. [[Radio.]] I guarantee it. This is called not "popullism" but "cost." This is called self-awareness. This will show if we have understood that our people do not accept the privileged class. This will show whether we want to untie this ball of political ties, business, money and interests, and privileges. Will we reach inside this ball and tear it apart, or will the people kick this ball out of the field of politics and release the new teams here to ensure a better future? [[Noise and lines.]] Unlike you, those who do not accept these ideas will not qualify you, I will not refer to you as reactionaries, as anti-Europeans, as you do. I will call you for one thing: I am sure that 100% in this House share these thoughts in mind. I'm sure every one of you has heard of them when you've been traveling around the country and you're thinking about them in your head. Few are the ones who will allow ourselves to say them, and even less are the ones who will do these things! [[Heckling]] I'm addressing these few in this room and beyond. Few, honourable colleagues and honourable Bulgarians, few in the world have changed their countries! These few in all years are referred to as the 'leaders' and 'leaders'. As little as we may be. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] I call on those who share such thoughts, who are ready and brave to realize them, to unite in this Chamber and to be the leaders of our people that he expects. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Before we continue, fellow Members, our guests are students from the Polytechnic High School of Sergey Rumyantsev, the town of Lukovit. Let's say hello! [[Applause.]] Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Veselinov on behalf of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is normal at the beginning of the new parliamentary session to do an analysis of the past and to say where, in which direction we continue. For us the analysis shows that last season was a successful season for both the National Assembly and the Bulgarian State. I will start with the most important, perhaps in the foreign policy dimension, fact that the Presidency of the European Union, which, for the misfortune of our opponents from the DPS and BSP, goes brilliantly, perhaps more for the DPS, who thought that the United Patriarchs are some weight for the current governance, delegate the European course of the country and so on, and so on, spells that we will most likely hear in a moment's time in the Chamber. In fact, the ministers of the United patriots are part of the most active group that conducts the foreign policy of the country, which communicates with its colleagues in Brussels and with regard to European issues, and with regard to our partnership relations with NATO, so to a large extent, the European merit of this government, is that it has shown that patriotism is not a stagnant ideology, it is not something that should sit in the corner and frighten the systemic parties with it, but an ideology that breaks the status quo in Europe, which brings to this same Europe extremely very much trouble. Again in the spirit of the Presidency, we do not want to see it as a competition for various fancy events, conferences and often meaningless discussions, such as the practical benefit and growth that the Bulgarian state has as an authority, in this regard I think we have reason to be satisfied, above all the ratification of the Treaty with the Republic of Macedonia, the friendship treaty that unlocks, thaws the relations between these two countries that are of such a close spirit. Secondly, let us remember the recognized after the active work of the Bulgarian institutions Bulgarian minority in Albania. Let us recall that such a question was also raised in the Republic of Kosovo during yesterday's visit by our prime minister. For the first time, in fact, the Bulgarian state, the government in which the United Patriarchs are involved, are systematically putting our national question on the issue of the rights of Bulgarians by nature, by spirit, which have remained as a result of the tragic coups outside the homeland, and we are doing this with success. I think this is an exceptional historical merit that is trying to compensate, unfortunately, for decades of silence on this extremely important issue. The Western Balkans are, in fact, the opportunity to unfreeze communication, to unite the Bulgarian nation already in a united Europe. The Skripal case is another example of how Bulgaria is already leading an independent policy, a policy motivated only by the Bulgarian national interest. Even if it were just our complicity in successful foreign policy such as the United Patriarchs, I think that this mandate would not have been wasted. Next, I cannot pass the noisy discussion related to the Istanbul Convention, which we, in fact, "United Patriarchs" started for purely valuable reasons, because gender-ideology, gender-tipals that were reaching for Bulgaria are actually metastases of this left Marxist ideology, which many of our opponents confess. Her author is Christine Delfi, who almost half a century ago decided to introduce the Marx principle of exploitation of a man in family relations. This is the basis of modern evil that destroys families and values in Bulgaria. No wonder the left-wings in Europe are born with gender-ideology and it is no wonder that patriots and conservatives are against this madness. I think that this victory of common sense, this victory of the patriotic beginning, the suspension of the ratification of this document, was contagious. There are already other countries in Europe that have refused ratification not because they are against the fight against violence, but because they believe that there are values that are eternal that must not be changed. This, too, is a serious victory for the United Patriarchs. Of course, we are grateful to everyone else who participated in the discussion, who supported with their powers, who showed willpower, did not bend to external pressure, and this made possible the current turn of events. We do not aim to stay in the government because we want to advertise our leaders or for some economic reason. The United Patriarchs prove that we are a serious corrective that matters. Often, noisy political conversations with our partners, and between us, are a function of the lack of directing, of the lack of economic interest to create a homogeneous mixture that does not think about ideas, but only thinks about the deal. I think that this government is also pioneering in this regard. There were a lot of sensitive questions that we tried to give solutions to. One of them is for example the case of the sale of CEZ, because after the violent scandals, after the violent exploitation by the media of this issue, it is precisely the............................................................... We thank all those who supported this bill at first reading, and I very much hope that we will literally witness the second reading in days, which will once and for all end Ginka saga. When we are talking about a corrective, I cannot help but mention the turbulent public debate on the inevitable defences, which we, the United Patriarchs, have been putting forward for years. Here we have criticism of our partners and the Ministry of Justice, as after the clear signal of the Prime Minister that there should be a change in this institute, an extension of the inevitable defence must be there and people must feel free to defend themselves not only in their home, but also when they are attacked and subjected to aggression, we learn from the media, unfortunately that the Ministry of Justice refuses to make such changes. Therefore, the group of the United Patriarchs will present today its draft amendment to the Penal Code, which not only solves the problem of inevitable defence, but also with the so-called minor crimes, the minor thefts, which allow for an endless marauding of a part of the unsocialized Bulgarians over their neighbours. I mean, what we talked about and what we came up with in the elections about the fight against domestic crime, we defend it and we defend it in the Bulgarian Parliament. Another important law, the debate on which we will start in the coming days, is the Law on Bulgarian Literary Language. You know that the parties of the United patriots have offered their projects at different times and for us is extremely important the protection of the Bulgarian language as the basis of the Bulgarian national identity. The Bulgarian language law will be introduced next week and will be subject to public discussion because we believe that this is one of the foundations on which education and public administration should be built and something that defends the Bulgarian identity at all. The incomes remain in our focus. The TELK reform is something that will not be abolished. We are continuing work to identify abuses and, accordingly, to redistribute the resource to those who really need it. Administrative and corporate racketeering is also the focus of our efforts. We have tabled amendments to the Law on Construction in the territory to stop the racketeering of utility companies, which turn the consumer's accession into a real torture. We will continue to insist on speedy viewing and on changes in the APC, and accordingly the introduction of silent consent as a principle. Maintaining Bulgarianism abroad remains our priority and we are ready with legislative amendments to the laws concerning Bulgarians abroad, as it is not only our duty as Bulgarians, as a nation to maintain the national consciousness of our compatriots, but also serious demographic potential for our country. I will end with an opposition council, as we are witnessing an extraordinary dramatic tone, a desire to turn everything black, to radicalise the situation in society, to destroy its fragile foundations at all, which people and parties have built together over the years. I would like to ask the question: did this opposition appear today on the political stage? Because when we talk about backstage, I ask myself, who chose who is the head of the DANS for example, Mrs. Ninova? We weren't the United Patriarchs, were we? Who created a series of governments, in fact half of the transition governs with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the extremely harmful party that destroys national unity, and who ultimately led the Bulgarian people to poverty that we are witnessing and from which we are sadly escaping? Because I remember the times when pensions were three or four dollars and wages were a little higher, but this is probably a question that you are comfortable avoiding. With regard to our main goal, yes, we continue to be the embodied antithesis of DPS, DOST and all other parties ruining the nation, we continue to support a government that defends national interests while defending them and while fulfilling its programme, God willing for a full term of office. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The recent events have shaken the world not so much with scale and volume as with the forceless and relentless reality of the world, with its ever-changing characteristics............................................................................. The latest geopolitical events pose extremely serious issues, both to all of us - politicians, public authorities and institutions, and to the organisations in which we are a member and require adequate measures and solutions. How Bulgarian state authorities and institutions position themselves in this context; how well the processes are known; whether they are able to analyze them; whether they take adequate measures; whether there is a vision, clear goals; how the security, life and health of Bulgarian citizens are guaranteed; what commitments the Bulgarian government has as Presidency of the Council of the European Union; how much the externally balanced position of the government is not an expression of caution of the type of downfall; how adequate it is, in what vision, goals and tools it is all important and serious. As a supreme authority in the Republic, the National Assembly must also have the answers to these questions. With the European Presidency, we must not miss any opportunity to meet the real needs of European citizens, we must turn any challenge into an opportunity for Bulgarian and European citizens, for Bulgaria and Europe. Bulgaria must put matters on the Union's main agenda and look for solutions to the most pressing problems. We need to work for Europe with more security, more solidarity, more stability, and Bulgaria, including. The objectives set for a specific road map for the accelerated integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union must not be limited to meeting with the leaders of the countries of that region. Dating can't be self-inflicted. Without prior preparations, with a formal agenda and clear objectives, the mission is pre-lost. For this, we are all making a clear account of them as part of a comprehensive, important process linked initially to peace and stability in the region. In the complex international environment in the world, in these geopolitical events, the European Union has greater responsibilities. The Union must assume this responsibility and act as an important strategic and unified international factor. European citizens must be reassured, stop divisions and doubts in the European Union, stop the feeling of undermining the foundations of the European Community. This means that very soon, important policies for the European Union will be resolved and implemented under the refugee crisis, common security and defence, digitalisation, cybersecurity, cohesion policy, monetary union, enlargement of the Union, partnership with third countries and unions and so on. The policies thus put forward have a direct impact on the internal policy plan and go through solving poverty and employment problems, creating conditions for sustainable economic growth, investment, stability and security, deep reforms in all sectors. The vision for governance should include a vision for reforms and the purpose of reforms, as well as the means and tools for achieving the objectives. This approach requires a new type of management and a new formula. Realities today require a quick retreat from the helpless cautionary lurking in anticipation of the next day, abandoning the illusory notion of us, of the world, of others, accelerated, enlightened movement forward and upward. It is the only way we can have common goals and with the necessary dose of courage and political will with common efforts to achieve them. Therefore, there is a need for the interaction of the nationally responsible parties from the democratic political spectrum on the basis of clear ideas and European values. It is time for dialogue on visions and programmes for governance on individual sectoral policies, on the European future of the country and the region, on the future of the European Union. It is time for decisive action in response to the dynamic, worrying, dangerous and risky international environment, to create sustainable conditions for peace and prosperity, for security and stability. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One year after the beginning of the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, in the middle of the European Presidency, Bulgarian citizens expect a clear programme for tackling poverty, for reforms in education, in health, social and pension policy. Bulgarian citizens expect high standard of living and high quality of life. They want jobs, they want security and stability, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms, the dignity of every single person. Just days ago, we celebrated Constitutional Day. The basic law introduces important principles of democracy and responsible governance. Observing these principles in due cooperation between the main state bodies and institutions guarantees democracy and its main achievements. This is our agenda and our responsibility. Let us give a dignified response to the expectations of Bulgarian and European citizens. We call for consensus on the rapid resolution of the problems of Bulgarian citizens, for Bulgaria's place as an important factor in regional, European and global terms. The Parliamentary Group will continue to support any good decision in this regard as a national responsible party. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. On behalf of the political party parliamentary group, Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are witnessing massive, large-scale corruption on all floors of government. We are witnessing huge poverty, stiffening millions of Bulgarians who live below the poverty line. We are witnessing broken health care, education in all its fields, which in recent days led to the death and injury of countless Bulgarians because of corruption in the sales of illegal books. We've witnessed all these things, unfortunately, for 30 years, almost 30 years. It was rightly noted that this is because there is a lack of leadership. But leaders are born, they are not appointed. Currently in Bulgaria, there are two leaders in Bulgarian political life. One is Boyko Borisov, leader of the government, and the other is Veselin Mareshki, leader of the alternative. [[Radio in the hall, laughter in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, I know you're not gonna like this thing. I'm sorry that Mrs. Nino is not here, because my whole speech was based on my outrage of being part of the backstage, being the creator of the parallel state, and having the insolence of the stands to come out and speak against her. Yes, we will start at the highest level by President Radev. Yes, he himself is a man who, unlike many other people, has at least come his way and created his career, but can you be an alternative, can you be different if you choose as your vice man, who is part of the backstage, part of the parallel state, and accept the support of a party that is practically the creator of this backstage, of this parallel state?! Yes, in order to be self-sufficient is required, as Mrs. Ninova said, character and courage, but where is Mr. Radev's character and courage to come out alone before the Bulgarians and to present his alternative? In absentia to Mrs. Ninova. Dear Mrs. Ninova, as to everyone else, and to Mr. Radev, I urge you to really find courage and character. Every criminal, every participant in the backroom, every participant in the corruption robbery of Bulgaria has the right at some point to break his tail and say: "I am no longer another, I am no longer of the SDS, I am no longer of the BSP or I am no longer of the BSP, I am not part of the backroom." But let him find the courage and character to come out alone before the Bulgarian people, to really break up with him, to come out with his personality. To come out Mrs. Ninova with her own project before the Bulgarian people and to see how many people respect her. This is the true courage and the true character that everyone who wants to be declared an alternative, something new, a person with character and courage should manifest. Good things about how we will improve life in Bulgaria and I agree that 100% of the House supports them. I agree with Mrs. Ninova that few, i.e. a small part, about 1 - 2%, including her, allow themselves to talk, although she didn't say anything about the fuel trade. You didn't say anything about the fuel trade, that's very interesting. And one small part already, I can even tell you exactly how much of the parliament exactly 5%, and I can tell you and by name me and the Parliamentary Group of Volja are the ones who are acting. And we always show it with action. And next month we will show you many more interesting actions, which, although we are not in power, we have the opportunity to make the Bulgarians feel that we exist as a political party and as individuals, real actions from which people can feel it. Yes, unfortunately, as a result of the false news against us it has come to the point that the only ones who are the real alternative, the only ones against whom there is no evidence, facts, and even doubts about participation in corruption, which robs the Bulgarian people all these years, the only ones who actually worked in life to build and do something good for the Bulgarians, are currently the smallest parliamentary group represented. Yeah, but those lies won't catch dikish anymore, as they say. You can see that in Italy, the socialist party is a total failure. Our partners are currently leaders in Austria, leaders in Italy, leaders in France, leaders in Germany, leaders everywhere in Europe because this is the real alternative. Yeah, we're not gonna get into this game, we're gonna start stealing, and with the stolen money, we're gonna pay sociologists, politicians, paid clackers who, from morning till night, are gonna praise us. I won't! We will fight for the support of the Bulgarian people from morning to evening with real action. Yeah, we don't like not being appreciated. But that doesn't mean turning against our people. No, on the contrary, we're taking criticism and we're starting to work even more so that the truth can come out. And I'm going to ask you not with empty declarations, not empty words! The next days we will give you a few more examples of how to work for the Bulgarian people not only with populistic speeches. Let each of you with a little something to contribute to your city, village, to the whole country. She'll be changed. And let's think that millions of Bulgarians live with less money than the leader of one of the parties in parliament gives only for hairstyles. Is that normal? Think very carefully about everything I've told you. Stand openly facing the Bulgarians. Let us reduce the gap between the self-forgotten political class and the table of the Bulgarian people in order to work for the prosperity, prosperity of all Bulgarian citizens, and not just the authorities. Thank you very much and good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, we are continuing our work today with a first point of the programme: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND CLEARANCE OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present the national representative Danail Kirilov. Before that, the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u12	Dear Mr President, as the deadline for submitting proposals between first and second readings on the amendment and the Supplement to the Energy Act is coming to an end today, we have expressed some considerations which are related to the improvement of the Law, the introduction of new or amendment of already proposed positions in it in order to improve the trade in electricity, liquidity, but without violating the interests of consumers and investors. It turned out that the proposal for shorter deadlines for submission of proposals between first and second readings, against which we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party voted, proved to be the right behavior not to accept such a proposal, but based on the need for these proposals to be in force from the price period of July 1st and having the clear awareness that we need to work further under this law, I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second reading be extended to Friday, April 20th, 18.00 pm. I'm hoping my colleagues will support this thing. It'll be good for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's proposal to increase the deadline for the bill between first and second readings by April 20th, 18.00 p.m. Vote 112 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u14	Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov, to read the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on item one.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u15	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: "COMMODITY" on draft decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, No 854-02-16, submitted by Gemma Marinova Grozdanova, Ivelina Vasilova, Kristian Ivanov Vigenin, Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova on 29 March 2018. At its meeting held on 4 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, No 854-02-16, submitted by Gemma Marinova Grozdanova, Ivelina Vasilova, Kristian Ivanov Vigenin, Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and Polina Tsankova-Hristova on 29 March 2018. The draft decision was presented by Ms. Gemma Grozdanova, who stressed that the practice is that the national parliaments by the end of March to submit to the European institutions the acts and files to which there is interest and to present them as annual work programmes of the national parliaments. The proposed change aims at the National Assembly to develop an annual work programme on its own and to submit it to the European institutions. Ms. Grozdanova noted that with the change the Council of Ministers will not further burden itself in the period of the Presidency to produce an annual programme. People's representatives Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov, Daniel Kirilov and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. The Members of the National Assembly agreed on the proposal that, as this is a temporary measure only for 2018, § 10 of the Final Provisions should be amended, providing for the order under which the National Assembly will draw up the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018 and will discuss the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union and their framework positions. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and the abstention, supported in principle the submitted draft decision for amendment and supplement of the Rules of Organization and Activities of the National Assembly, No 854-02-16, submitted by Jemma Grozdanova, Ivelina Vasileva, Christian Vigenin, Krasimir Bogdanov and Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova on 29 March 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly to accept the following: Project! DECISION amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. Paragraph 10 of the Final Provisions shall be amended as follows: ..................................................... (1) Article 118 shall not apply from 1 July 2017 until 31 December 2018. (2) The Standing Committees, with the exception of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, shall draw up, by competence, their proposals for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018, taking into account the published Working Programme of the European Commission for 2018. The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, taking into account also the proposals of the other Standing Committees, shall draw up a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018. The Annual Work Programme shall contain a list of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union on which the National Assembly shall carry out monitoring and control. The draft annual work programme shall be discussed and adopted by the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall send the adopted Annual Work Programme to the Council of Ministers. In recent circumstances, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds may propose, on its own initiative or on a proposal from other Standing Committees, additions to the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs for 2018, which shall be adopted in the order of sentences two, three and four. Articles 119, 120 and 121 shall apply respectively. (3) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly for information and other documents relating to the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Will there be an opinion of the importers? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u17	Madam President, honourable Members! With the action of § 10, para. 1 of the Final provision of the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly block the possibility of drafting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues and thus there is ineffective parliamentary monitoring and control of European Union issues because of the inability to implement Chapter 11 of the Rules in full. With fellow importers, we have considered the possibility of adopting amendments to the Rules of Procedure and without burdening the work of the Council of Ministers during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to be able to restore and resume the activities of the National Assembly and the regional committees for monitoring and control of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union in accordance with art. 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Protocols 1 and 2 of the Lisbon Treaty. In accordance with art. 105 of the Constitution The Council of Ministers informs the National Assembly on issues concerning the obligations of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union and that in the process of the development and adoption of acts of the European Union the Council of Ministers informs the National Assembly in advance and gives an account of its actions. Protocols 1 and 2 of the Lisbon Treaty base the powers of national parliaments on the extent and form of their participation in the activities of the European Union, including the legislative activities of the European institutions. Protocol 1 governs the role of national parliaments in the European Union and Protocol 2 sets out in particular the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. In areas which do not fall within the exclusive competence of the Union, the principle of subsidiarity laid down in the Treaty of the European Union lays down the conditions under which the Union has priority for action before the Member States. In the light of the above, the draft decision is proposed to end only on art. 118 by 31 December 2018, while allowing for the renewal of the other provisions of Chapter 11 of the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. In this way, as I said, we will have the opportunity to draw up an Annual Work Programme based on the European Commission Programme for 2018. It will be distributed by the President of the National Assembly to all Standing Committees, and permanent committees will choose acts in which we are interested, and thus we will resume our work and we will have the opportunity to give reasoned opinions on subsidiarity and proportionality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u18	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in accordance with the text presented to us by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Voted 108 MPs: 103, against 5, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. The next item on the agenda is: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT PERSONAL DATA FOR 2017 Importer is the Personal Data Protection Commission of 29 January 2018. Who will present the opinion of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order? Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will present to the Members of the National Assembly: "COMMODITY" on an annual report by the Commission on the protection of personal data for its activities in 2017, No 820-00-2, submitted by the Commission on 29 January 2018. At its regular meeting held on 4 April 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection for its activities in 2017, No 820-00-2, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 29 January 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Commission for Personal Data Protection: Ventsislav Karadzhov, President of the Commission, and Desislava Toshkova, Secretary-General. The report was presented by Ventsislav Karadzhov. In 2017, the Commission focused its efforts on three areas. The first group includes the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the House of the Fortyth International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy and Schengen Accession within its competence. The second group is related to fulfilling commitments arising from the new European legal framework in the area of protection of personal data. The Commission, with the assistance of the Ministry of Interior, has drawn up a comprehensive Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act implementing the national measures implementing Regulation 2016/679 and transposing Directive 2016/680 on police and criminal matters. Point out that the new regulatory requirements require specialized training of personal data controllers and the establishment of a National Training Centre. The third priority during the reporting period relates to active control activities in areas of high social and social importance. In 2017 an inspection was carried out in the sector A draft report on which recommendations and recommendations are made for improvement of the activity has been prepared. The further improvement of information and communication electronic systems that have facilitated and alleviated citizens and businesses and have reduced the administrative and bureaucratic burden on the activities of personal data controllers. During the reporting period, a total of 476 complaints were received to the Commission, with the highest share of complaints related to telecommunications. 91 following complaints about video surveillance, banks and credit institutions, political entities, media and others. The amount of the imposed property penalties and fines during the accounting year is for 233 700 BGN. The number of citizens' consultations by 90% has been increased compared to the previous year, taking into account that they are becoming increasingly active in the search for assistance and clarification in applying the data protection standards. A large part of the inquiries received at the Information Centre to the Commission concern the content of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Union and the related changes to the Personal Data Protection Act, others until a confirmation sheet with an electronic signature is signed on the issue of a personal data controller certificate and others. In 2017, the imposed penalties amounted to BGN 34 500. The collected amounts amount to 39 500 BGN, including from previous years, such as 2500 BGN. were collected by the National Revenue Agency. In the Commission, as a supervisory authority under the Law on Electronic Communications, have received 30% more information than the previous year for giving mandatory instructions. At the same time, the total number of requests for access to traffic data amounts to 65 505, which is, however, a decrease of 10.67% compared to the previous year. The reduction in requests for access to traffic data as well as a reduction in cases of failure to provide information is the result of increased legal requirements for competent authorities, as well as increased judicial review after 31 March 2015. In summary, the objectives and priorities were presented in 2018 related to the introduction of the new European legal framework and the synchronization of national legislation in relation to the public and private sectors, as well as to the "Police and Justice" sectors, the continuation of efforts in the area of protection of personal data for Schengen accession and others. Notes that 45 000 are organisations that need to appoint administrators in relation to the forthcoming adoption of the new legislation. People's representatives Pencho Milkov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Ivan Ivanov took part in the debates. The comments focused on the topic of building training capacity for new administrators in order to meet the new requirements adequately. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 17 votes for abstention and non-restraint supported the submitted Annual Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activities in 2017, No 820-02, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 29 January 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly the following project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Annual Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activities in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Commission's Annual Report on the Protection of Personal Data for its Activity in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Before giving the floor for speeches, honourable Members, we have guests on the western balcony of students from the III and IV grade of the secondary school of Georgi Bregov. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] On the eastern balcony of the visit are 110 students from the School of Primary School - Yane Sandanski. [[Applause.]] We continue with speeches. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection for the Commission's activities in 2017. Its text is in line with the proposal submitted by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order by the National Representative Plamen Nunev. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for a decision shall be adopted. Moving on to the next point of the Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND FACILITIES WITH REGARD TO THE Privatization AND PLANNED SALE OF THE COMPANIES OF CEZ GROUP IN BULGARIA. Dear Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you the report: The Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria was established by a decision of the National Assembly on 14 March 2018 with a period of validity of one month. The Commission concentrated its work in two main directions, namely: Privatization of the electricity distribution companies in 2004 and subsequent sale of the minority share package in 2012 to CEZ Distribution and CEZ Electro Bulgaria. Is post-privatization control carried out, as well as the level of implementation of the objectives of the strategy for privatisation of the electricity distribution companies adopted in 2003? The second course of the discussion about the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria; information about the buyer; the origin of the funds the deal is intended to be implemented; what were the actions of the Bulgarian institutions in view of their legal responsibilities. In this regard, for the period from its establishment until now, the Commission held four meetings at which representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, representatives of the Inercom Bulgaria. The available data were submitted at the meetings and additional information and opinions were requested from the competent state authorities, financial institutions and persons directly concerned with the subject matter of the Commission's work. Until now the requested information from the Council of Ministers, the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control has been officially received by the Commission, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and Water Regulation, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, the First Investment Bank, UniCredit Bulbank and the Bulgarian Development Bank, the State Financial Inspection Agency and the Czech Republic. Information and further explanations from the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Economy, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Financial Supervision Commission will be received. At a regular meeting held on 17 April 2018, the Commission, with 13 votes in favour, without any objection and abstention, decided that, given the need for a comprehensive analysis of the large volume of information collected, as well as the forthcoming one, and in order to draw up an objective report, it proposed extending the period of validity of the committee under investigation to 10 May 2018. In this regard, Mr President, I would like you to meet: Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances relating to the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Continues the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria until 10 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have said that this is a committee that will create nothing but unnecessary expectations in society and some intrigues between the political formations in the National Assembly. We turned out to be right, but now I will start by congratulating the President of the Commission, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, that he was served as President, Commission with an object and activity which absolutely does not correspond to any National Assembly, including the MPs, that we do not have any legal form to deal with the planning and sale of a private company, nor with the privatisation process and the post-privatization process, because there are a number of circumstances why we should not do so as to create certain arguments in order to benefit from some of the parties in the transaction. Mr. Boychev, I really congratulate you that you were able to form in the Commission and create a topic on the basis of which you invited other institutions, which also have absolutely nothing to do with the overall deal. It is difficult for you, I see, but if we are principled, I would ask you, colleagues, not to prolong the work of this committee any longer, because in the last sittings where we meet, apart from asking the same questions and getting the same answers, we do nothing else. And the materials that we have received are, in fact, much of them have already responded to what society expected to hear is not on the subject of the Commission. The idea, when the Commission was created, was expected to be heard in the political space who was behind Inercom. To this issue, both in the Commission and in the media, the answers of the prosecution, the DANS and the DAR were clear and clear. These are institutions that provide a clear answer based on all studies and their follow-up. Their answer was no one, no one is behind Inercom. The second answer that the public expected to receive is whether the state will still want to enter into private relationships of two companies that have already concluded the first part of the deal without closing it. And that's what we got an answer to. The Minister of Finance clearly and clearly stated in the Commission that the State will not participate and in no way intend to participate. From now on, colleagues, I think that if we continue to create an illusion in society that we will find something that will be used by politicians, I think that this thing should be shaped in the report itself, based on these documents. And in the Commission, just as I told you before, and asked you to paint the eggs on Easter, not to deal with the Energy Act, the DPS have imported our proposals, it turns out that you want a delay and by Friday obviously that you were painting eggs, you weren't dealing with the energy. My request is, the President is very seriously committed to this issue.. Let us give his team the opportunity to form the report and the Commission, without any unnecessary funds, to gather together and accept this report or not to accept it, to vote and submit it to Parliament. That's my request. I hope that after these brief arguments this time you will listen to us and not extend the term of the Temporary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any lines to Mr. Atalay's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I vote on the draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. The text of the decision was presented by Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 121 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 8. The offer is accepted. We continue with the next item of our Work Programme, namely: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TURISM LAW. Dear Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u25	Honourable colleagues, please allow us to invite Mrs. Irena Georgieva and Lilyana Arsova, Director General of the General Directorate of Tourism Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the hall. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u27	Colleagues, a few words on the bill. It's a long law, almost 100 paragraphs. We'll do our best today by 2:00 to finish it with a long reading, not conflicted. I just want to warn you that we have a lot of serious work to do and reading ahead of us. I also count on my colleagues from the Commission to help me. There are only three proposals submitted, two of them accepted, one not accepted. I think we can count on a good collaboration. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017, adopted at the first vote on 8 February 2018. "Renewal and Supplement to the Law on Tourism" (prom., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u28	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u29	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. (1) A tourist area management organisation shall be established at least by: 1. two tourist associations entered in the National Tourist Register, whose registered office is in the territory of the tourist area; 2. four municipalities from the territory of the tourist area, one of which is the headquarters of the region; 3. one regional administration from the territory of the tourist area. (2) Founders may also be the persons under art. 17, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u31	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u33	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 s 4 are amended as follows: The application for the initiation of the procedure shall state at least the following circumstances: 1. the name of the organisation (with Bulgarian and Latin letters) and address; telephone/fax and e-mail address, if available, otherwise the names of the authorised person and his/her telephone/fax and e-mail address shall be indicated; 2. the circumstances under art. 22; 3. the number and date of the decision of the municipal council for the participation of the municipality in OUTR; 4. the number and date of the decision of the Board of Directors or General Assembly for the participation of the Tourist Association in UTR; 5. circumstances relating to the object and objectives of the OPT; 6. the tourist area of OTP for which it is established. (3) The application shall be signed by all members of the founding Committee and shall be annexed: 1. Named list of founders of each group under art. 22; 2. original of the minutes of the meeting of the founding committee. (4) In the case of established irregularities of the documents submitted and/or at the request of the Minister of Tourism for the submission of additional data and documents in relation to the circumstances under para. 2 and 3, the applicant shall be notified in writing, setting a 14-day period from the date of receipt of the notification of the removal of irregularities and the submission of additional data and documents. 2. In para. 5 the word "application' is replaced by "application'. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 4, the term for the ruling under para. 5 starts from the date of removal of irregularities and/or the submission of additional data and documents. 4. In para. 8 the words may refuse shall be replaced by the order refused. 5. In para. 9 after the words "the founding committee', the person concerned, who is the founding committee, shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u34	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 3. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u35	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u37	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u39	The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) "4." Executive Director.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u40	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with the text presented by its President. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u41	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 3
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 6 which shall become § 7 and shall be proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u43	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u44	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u45	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The Tourist Region Management Organisation shall be terminated by order of the Minister of Tourism in: 1. a deposited decision of the General Assembly; 2. carrying out an activity that contradicts the Law. (4) The order under para. 3 shall be issued at the request of each person concerned in the cases under para. 3, p. 1 or by the Minister of Tourism in cases under para. 3, p. 2 in cases of infringements of the control exercise in accordance with art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 8, which shall become § 9. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u47	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 52 is amended as follows: Art. 52. (1) The entry of associations in the National Tourist Register shall be carried out by order of the Minister of Tourism on the basis of an application form declaration. An application shall be submitted by a person entitled to represent the association or by his authorised representative. (2) The application shall declare at least the following circumstances: 1. the name of the association (with spelling in Bulgarian and Latin letters); its registered office and address; telephone/fax and e-mail address, if any, otherwise the names of the authorised person and his/her telephone/fax and e-mail address shall be indicated; 2. the type of organization under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities; 3. circumstances related to the object and purposes of the organization under art. 47, para. 3 and the requirements of art. 50; 4. the type of association under art. 48. (3) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a list of all members of the association, together with information on the paid membership imports for the previous year, if applicable, certified by signature of the representative and stamp of the association; 2. explicit power of attorney in original when the application is submitted by a proxy. (4) Copies of the judgment for registration, information on the current status of the applicant and the statutes of the association shall be obtained by official means. (5) The Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him within 14 days from the date of the submission of the application, together with the documents under para. 3 issue an order to enter the association, enter it in the National Tourist Register and issue a certificate of the circumstances entered. (6) In the event of irregularities of the documents submitted and/or at the request of the Minister of Tourism for the submission of additional data and documents in relation to the circumstances under para. 2 and 3, the applicant shall be notified in writing, setting a 14-day period from the date of receipt of the notification of the removal of irregularities and the submission of additional data and documents. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the term for the ruling under para. 5 starts from the date of removal of irregularities and/or the submission of additional data and documents. (8) In case within the term under para. 6 The applicant shall not remove the identified irregularities and/or provide the requested additional data and documents, the Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him shall refuse by order entry into the National Tourist Register. The refusal shall be communicated to the interested parties within three days. (9) Every year by 31 May, the representing association or its authorised person shall submit to the Ministry of Tourism an official declaration in accordance with a model established by an order of the Minister of Tourism containing a list of the actual number of members, information on the membership of their imports for the previous year and evidence of regular organizational life under the association's statutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 9, which shall become § 10. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Before continuing on the eastern balcony are the students under the program "Young Messengers" from the friendly state of Israel. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u49	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "application' is replaced by "application'; Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 10 which shall become § 11. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u51	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words s is not in liquidation proceedings or In the case of non-performing loans, the amount of the loan shall be equal to the amount of the loan. the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation. (b) c. 2 after the words Country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area space, or of the Swiss Confederation. (c) c. 3 after the word platform (s) and platform (s); (d) shall be established. 5. It's five o'clock. is not declared bankrupt and is not in insolvency or liquidation proceedings. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The owner, the members of the management and control bodies of the tour operator and/or the travel agent, as well as the persons with management functions of the tour operator and/or the travel agent shall meet the following requirements: 1. not to be sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate crime of a general nature, unless they have been rehabilitated; 2. shall not be deprived of the right to take a materially responsible position; 3. during the last three years prior to the date of insolvency set by the court, they were not members of a management or control body or of unlimited liability partners in a company for which insolvency proceedings were opened or terminated due to insolvency, if they remained unsatisfied creditors. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 11, which shall become § 12. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u54	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 13 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14, and shall propose the following version of art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 letter.........:.................................................... the name of the person (in Bulgarian and Latin letters); its registered office and address; telephone/fax and e-mail address, if any, otherwise the names of the authorised person and his/her telephone/fax address and e-mail address shall be given.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14, and the version which the Commission shall propose to art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 letter.............................................................................. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u57	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u59	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u60	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Before we go further, colleagues, students from school are on the eastern balcony "Yane Sandanski" city of Plovdiv. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u61	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The procedure to reflect the change in circumstances in the case of tour operator and/or travel agent activities in the cases under para. 3 shall be opened on an application form declaration to be submitted within 14 days of the change to the Minister of Tourism or to an official authorised by him. The application declaration shall comply with the following requirements: 1. the application shall declare at least the following: circumstances: (a) the location, suitability and equipment of the premises for the exercise of tour operator or tourist agent activities, except where the activity is exercise only by electronic means; (b) education, language qualification and internship for the staff to be occupied in the implementation of the tourist activities; (c) that the applicant is not related to a trader whose registration for carrying out a tour operator and/or tourist agent activity has been deleted or refused registration in the time limits referred to in art. 66, para. 4 t. 1 and 2; (d) general conditions for carrying out the activity in accordance with the requirements of the law; 2. to the application declaration shall apply: (a) a conversion contract or conversion plan, respectively a transfer contract for an undertaking or a certificate of heirs from which the consent to transfer or transfer the registration or acceptance rights is apparent; (b) a copy of the documents certifying completion education, internship and language qualification of the person, operating management functions of a tour operator or travel agent activities; (c) a copy of the contract of insurance under art. 97, para. 1 in the name of the applicant for tour operators. 2. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the word "application' and the words "al'. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4............................................................................................ 3. In para. 6 the word "incomplete" is replaced by "incorrectities" and the word "incomplete" is replaced by "inregularities." 4. In para. 7 the words the application under art. The application shall be replaced by the application referred to in paragraph 5. The words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4............................................................................................ 5. In para. 8 the word "incompletes" is replaced by "inregularities."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Before I give the floor for speeches, I may not be able to navigate, but we are looking at where it says: The second point is: the application is applied and again we are going to the second point. This is to point one: "Alinea 4 is amended like this. Is that right? It's written in one font, and there could be confusion, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u63	Paragraphs 1 and 2 are to para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u64	Now I know what this is about. Thank you. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 16, which shall become § 17. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Before announcing an interruption, honourable Members, the exhibition will be opened in the northern lobby. It is dedicated to the year of European cultural heritage announced by the European Commission and was established in connection with the National Program for Digitalization of Cultural Heritage in Bulgaria at the National Scientific Expeditionary Club UNESCO. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u65	Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "the registration" shall be added to the persons referred to in art. 61, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 (b) point 5 is repealed. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 7 the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the b) To be created t. 11 and 12: "11." within 14 days from the date of expiry of the last insurance contract concluded................................................................................................................... 98, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 12. cease to meet the requirements as follows: (a) for the persons referred to in art. 61, para. 2, p. 1 The requirements of art. 61, para. 2, p. 3 and 5 and para. 3; (b) for the persons referred to in art. 61, para. 2, p. 2 The requirements of art. 61, para. 2, p. 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u67	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text supported by the Commission and in the version of the Commission for § 17, which becomes § 18. Cancel the vote. We're starting a roll call: Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - absent Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - absent Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - absent Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - here Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Todor Baychev - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Toma Nikolov Tomov - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Halil Recepov Letifov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent 158 MPs are present. There's a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on the text proposed by the Commission, the import text for § 17 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 18. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "supplied" is deleted and after the words "supplied" the word "voluntarily" is added. 2. In para. 2 the words "not applicable' shall be replaced by "not applicable'. 3. In para. 3 words under art. 82, para. 1s are replaced by. under art. 84, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u69	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of § 18 which becomes § 19. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u71	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We proceed to the vote on the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 20, the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21 and the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u73	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 23. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u74	Under § 23, there is a proposal from MP Galya Zaharieva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 24. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Danchev: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 23: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 after the word "packages" is added "related tourist services" and a new comma is placed after the word "students" and is added "inclusive." for trips for a period of less than 24 hours (day-to-day trips) (bb) c. 2 after the word (b) in para. 4 t. 1 A new comma shall be placed after the word "hours' and added "with the exception of those referred to in para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: The rest of Mr. Danchev's proposal is supported by the Commission, so I read only this part which is not supported. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 (a) (a) (b) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. Point 1 (a) (i) is replaced by the following: The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 23 but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts (prom., SG No. 39 from 1974) proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs of § 24 to § 41. The Commission proposes to create new § 24 .................................................................................. Article 79 is amended as follows: Art. 79. (1) The provisions of this Section shall lay down the arrangements for the implementation of tourist packages and related tourist services. (2) The provisions of this Section shall apply to tourist packages offered for sale or sold by tour operators to travelers, including through travel agents, as well as to related tourist services provided by traders. (3) The provisions of this Section shall also apply to: 1. tourist packages and related tourist services for children and students, which are formed only by a tour operator and are offered for sale by it directly and/or through travel agents; 2. children and school travel packages and related tourist services in the pre-school and school education system which are carried out on the basis of a contract concluded between a tour operator and the director of the institution concerned within the meaning of the Pre-school and School Education Act; the contract shall be concluded after its approval by the Head of the relevant regional education management. (4) The provisions of this Section and Section III shall not apply to contracts for: 1. tourist packages and related tourist services covering a period of less than 24 hours, unless they include accommodation; 2. tourist packages and related tourist services which are offered or organised not by occupation for a limited group of travelers and are not intended for profit; 3. tourist packages and related tourist services purchased on the basis of a general agreement on the organisation of a business trip concluded between a trader and a different natural or legal person acting for purposes relating to his business, business, craft or profession. (5) The carriages of children and/or students in children's and school travel packages or related tourist services shall be carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Road Transport Act, such as in the contracts under para. 3, p. 2 contains an obligation for the tour operator or tourist agent to make the journey in the bright part of the day and provide at least 10 hours of rest for one day at a categorized accommodation. The specific conditions and arrangements for the implementation of child and school travel packages or related tourist services initiated by the institution concerned within the meaning of the Pre-school and School Education Act shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers on a joint proposal from the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Education and Science. (6) Children's and school travel packages or related tourist services initiated by persons outside the pre-school and school education system shall be conducted on the basis of a contract between a tour operator and the person concerned. The specific conditions and arrangements for carrying out children's and school's tourist packages or related tourist services initiated by persons outside the pre-school and school education system shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 5. The Commission shall in principle support the importer's proposal for art. 80, but rejects it as it is systematically reflected in § 106 and proposes art. 80 to be canceled. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 80 is repealed. The Commission shall in principle support the importer's proposal for art. 81 but rejects it as it is systematically reflected in § 106 and proposes art. 81 to be canceled. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 81 is repealed. § 27. Article 82 is amended as follows: Art. 82. (1) Before the traveler is bound by a travel package contract or by any other relevant offer for a package, the tour operator shall, where the package is sold through a travel agent and the travel agent, provide the traveling standard information form in accordance with Annex No 1, where possible the use of hyperlinks or, in other cases, a standard form for the provision of information pursuant to Annex No 2, as well as the following information on the package, where applicable: 1. the main characteristics of the tourist services: (a) the destination/destinations of the journey, route and periods of stay, indicating the dates and, where accommodation is included, and the number of nights involved; (b) the type, characteristics and categories of means of transport, places, dates and times of departure and return, duration of intermediate stops and places where they are made and transport connections; where no exact time is fixed, the tour operator and, where applicable, the travel agent shall notify the traveller of the estimated hours of departure and return; (c) the location, main characteristics and, where applicable, the tourist category of accommodation, in accordance with the rules of the State where the accommodation is located; (d) the intended meals; (e) visits, excursions/ excursions or other services included in the total price agreed on for the package; (f) where it is not clear from the context whether some of the tourist services will be provided to the traveller as part of a group, and, if so, where possible, the estimated number of the group; (g) where the use by the traveler of other tourist services depends on the effective oral communication, the language in which these services will be carried out, and (h) whether the journey or vacation as a whole is suitable for persons with reduced mobility, as well as, upon request by the traveler, accurate information on whether the journey or vacation is appropriate for the passenger's needs; 2. the name of the tour operator and of the travel agent, if any, its registered office and its management address, their telephone numbers and, where applicable, their e-mail addresses; 3. the total cost of the package referred to in Bulgarian leva, including all fees, payments and other additional costs, or, where these costs cannot be reasonably calculated before the conclusion of the contract, an indication of the type of additional costs that may have to be paid by the traveller; 4. the terms of payment, including the amount or percentage of the price to be paid as a down payment, and a payment schedule for the rest of the price, or the financial guarantees to be paid or provided by the traveller; 5. the minimum number of participants required to carry out the package and the deadline referred to in art. 89, para. 7, p. 1 for a possible termination of the contract before the start of the implementation of the package if the minimum number of participants has not been raised; 6. general information on passport and visa requirements, including approximate time limits for obtaining visas, and information on the health requirements of the country chosen for travel; 7. information on the possibility for the traveller to terminate the contract at any time prior to the start of the implementation of the package after paying the relevant costs of termination of the contract or, where applicable, the standard costs required by the tour operator to terminate the contract, according to art. 89, para. 1.. 4; 8. information on the conditions for the conclusion of a voluntary insurance contract to cover the cost of termination of the travel package contract by the traveller; 9. information on the conditions for the conclusion of a voluntary or compulsory insurance contract to cover the costs of assistance, including the repatriation of the traveller in the event of an accident, sickness or death. (2) When the package contract is concluded by telephone, the tour operator and, when the package is sold through a travel agent and the travel agent, shall provide the traveling standard form for the provision of information pursuant to Annex 2 and the information under para. 1, t. 1... 9............................................................. (3) Before the traveller is bound by a contract or by any other corresponding offer for packages within the meaning of § 1, item 3. 67 (b) (b) (b) (b) and (c) of the Additional Provisions, the tour operator and the trader to which the data have been transmitted shall provide the traveler with the information referred to in para. 1, t. In so far as this information relates to the travel or vacation services offered by them. The tour operator shall provide both the traveler and the standard form for providing information in accordance with Annex 3. (4) Before the traveller is bound by a related tourist service contract or any other relevant offer for a related tourist service, the trader, who facilitates the provision of related tourist services, even in cases where he is not established in a Member State of the European Union, but in any way directs his activity to a Member State of the European Union, shall inform the traveller that he cannot benefit from the rights under this Section relating exclusively to the tourist packages and that each service provider is responsible solely for the accurate performance of the service offered by him under the contract, and that the traveller shall benefit from the protection under art. 97, para. 2. (5) The trader who facilitates the provision of a related tourist service shall provide the information under para. 4 of the traveller by means of the standard form for the provision of information according to Annexes 4 to 8. (6) Where the specific type of related tourist service does not correspond to any of the standard information forms provided for in Annexes No 4. 8 the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services shall provide similar information to those contained in the annexes. (7) The information under para. The traveler shall be made available to the traveller in a clear, understandable and visible manner and must be legible when provided in writing. (8) Where the provision of a related tourist service is the result of a contract concluded between the traveller and a trader which does not facilitate the provision of the related tourist service, it shall inform the trader, which shall facilitate the provision of the related tourist service, of the conclusion of the contract. § 28. Article 83 is amended as follows: Art. 83. (1) The information referred to in art. 82, para. 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7 shall form an integral part of the travel package contract and shall not be changed unless the Contracting Parties expressly agree otherwise. (2) The tour operator and, where applicable, the travel agent shall notify the traveller of any change to the pre-contract information in a clear, understandable and visible manner prior to the conclusion of the package contract. (3) Where the tour operator and, where applicable, the travel agent have not provided information prior to the conclusion of the package contract for all fees, payments and additional costs which may have to be paid by the traveler in connection with the implementation of the tourist package, he shall not be liable for such charges and additional costs. § 29. Article 84 is amended as follows: Art. 84. (1) The package contract or confirmation of the conclusion of a package contract shall contain all information under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 s 9 as well as information on: 1. the specific requirements of the traveler adopted by the tour operator; 2. that the tour operator: (a) Responsible for the proper implementation of all tourist services included in the package under art. 90; (b) he shall be obliged according to art. 93 to assist the traveller in the event that he becomes in difficulty; 3. name, registered office of management, address and telephone of the insurer, as well as information on the existence of an insurance certificate certifying the existence of an insurance contract under art. 97, para. 1 or 2 where the insurance cover, the insurance amount, the number and the date of the insurance policy are mandatory; 4. the name, address, telephone number, e-mail address and, where applicable, the fax number of the local representative of the tour operator, of a contact point or of another service to enable the traveller to make a quick connection and effective communication with the tour operator, to seek assistance in case of difficulty or to lodge a complaint concerning a finding of non-compliance during the implementation of the package; 5. that the traveler is required to report any lack of compliance that he notices during the implementation of the travel package, according to art. 90, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. information which allows direct contact with the minor or the person responsible for him in the place of stay of the minor in cases where minors who are not accompanied by a parent or other authorised person are travelling on the basis of a travel package contract involving accommodation; 7. the available procedures for handling complaints and for alternative dispute resolution (ARS) by ADR authorities under the Consumer Protection Act and, where applicable, information on the ADR authority within the scope of the trader and on the online dispute resolution platform pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on online dispute resolution and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC (OB, L 165/1 of 18 June 2013.) 8. the right of the traveler to transfer the travel package contract to another traveler under art. 86. (2) The package contract shall be drawn up in clear and understandable language. Where the contract is drawn up in writing, it must be written legibly. (3) When concluding a package contract or without undue delay after its conclusion, the tour operator or the travel agent shall provide the traveling copy of the contract or confirmation of the conclusion of the package contract on a durable medium. Where the package contract is concluded in the presence of the parties to the contract, the traveller shall be entitled to a copy of the contract in paper form. (4) When the package contract is concluded outside the commercial premises within the meaning of art. 44 of the Consumer Protection Act, the tour operator or the travel agent shall provide the traveling copy of the contract or confirmation of the conclusion of the package contract on paper or, if the traveller agrees, a copy shall be provided on another durable medium. (5) In the case of tourist packages pursuant to § 1, point The trader to whom the data have been transmitted through related online booking processes shall inform the tour operator of the conclusion of a contract leading to the creation of a package. The trader shall provide the tour operator with the information he needs to perform his duties. (6) In the cases under para. 5 The tour operator shall be obliged as soon as notified by the trader of the creation of a package to provide the traveler on a durable medium with the information referred to in para. 1, t. 8. (7) The information under para. 1, 5 and 6 shall be provided in a clear, understandable and visible manner. (8) The tour operator shall provide to the traveller in due time, before the start of the implementation of the travel package, the necessary documents to use the tourist services included in the package, such as receipts, vouchers, tickets and others, as well as information on scheduled departure times and, where applicable, information on the deadline for registration for boarding the vehicle, as well as on the timetable for intermediate stops, transport connections and arrivals. § 30. Article 85 is amended as follows: Art. 85. The burden of proof of compliance with the obligation to provide the information under art. In connection with the tourist package contracts, the tour operator is carrying 84. § 31. Article 86 is amended as follows: Art. 86. (1) The traveller shall have the right to transfer the package contract concluded by him to another person who fulfils all the requirements applicable to the contract concluded after giving the tour operator notice on a durable medium within a reasonable time before the start of the package. (2) A notice made no later than seven days before the start of the implementation of the package shall be deemed to have been made within a reasonable period. (3) The person to whom the package contract is transferred and the person to whom the package contract is transferred shall be jointly responsible for the payment of the remaining part of the contract amount and any additional charges, levies or other additional costs resulting from the transfer. (4) The tour operator shall inform the person transferring the package of actual transfer costs. These costs cannot be unduly high and cannot exceed the actual costs incurred by the tour operator in connection with the transfer of the package contract. (5) The tour operator shall provide the person transferring the package contract, evidence of the costs, charges or other additional costs resulting from the transfer of the package contract. § 32. Article 87 is amended as follows: Art. 87. (1) After the conclusion of a package contract, the price of the package may be increased only if the contract expressly provides for such an option and if it is stated that the traveller is entitled to a price reduction under para. 6. (2) The package contract shall indicate the manner in which the price change of the package is calculated where such an option is provided for. (3) The increase in the price of the tourist package is possible only exceptionally as a result of changes in: 1. the price of the carriage of passengers resulting from a change in the price of fuel or other sources of energy; 2. the amount of taxes or charges on the tourist services included in the contract imposed by a third party not directly involved in the implementation of the package, including tourist charges, landing charges or departure charges or landing charges, or 3. exchange rates relating to the package. (4) When the increase in the price under para. 3 exceeds 8 per cent of the total cost of the package, Article 3 shall apply. 88, para. 2, 3 and 6. (5) Notwithstanding its size, the increase in the cost of the package is only possible if the tour operator has notified the traveler in a clear and understandable manner, together with justification for the increase and calculations provided on a durable medium, no later than 20 days before the start of the implementation of the package. (6) If the package contract provides for an opportunity to increase the price, then the traveller shall be entitled to a reduction in the price of the package corresponding to any reduction in the costs under para. 3, p. 1 - 3 where the reduction occurred after the conclusion of the contract until the start of the implementation of the package. (7) In the case of a price reduction, the tour operator shall be entitled to deduct the administrative costs incurred by him from the amount to be reimbursed to the traveller. On request, the tour operator shall provide the traveler with evidence of the administrative costs incurred.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u75	................................................ Article 88 is amended as follows: Art. 88. (1) Before the start of the implementation of the tourist package, the tour operator may not unilaterally change clauses in the contract for the tourist package other than the price, in accordance with art. 87, unless: 1. the tour operator has retained this right in the contract; 2. the change is insignificant; 3. the tour operator shall inform the traveller of the change in a clear, understandable and visible way on a durable medium. (2) When, before the start of the implementation of the tourist package, the tour operator is forced to substantially change any of the main characteristics of the tourist services under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 or cannot meet any of the specific requirements of art. 84, para. 1, t. 1, or propose an increase in the cost of the package by more than 8 per cent, the traveller shall be entitled within a reasonable period of time specified by the tour operator: 1. accept the proposed change, or 2. terminate the contract without paying a fee for termination of the contract. (3) When the traveller terminates the tourist package contract, he may accept a package replacement of the same or of higher quality if the tour operator offers one. (4) The tour operator shall inform the traveller without undue delay in a clear, understandable and visible manner in a durable medium of: 1. the proposed changes to the contract under para. 2 and for their impact on the cost of the package under para. 5; 2. the period within which the traveler is entitled to notify the tour operator of his decision pursuant to para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the consequences if the traveler does not react within the period under point 3. 2, and 4. where applicable, for the proposed package replacement and for its price. (5) When changes to the package contract according to para. 2 or for tourist package replacement according to para. 3 leads to lower quality or value of the package, the traveler is entitled to a corresponding price reduction. (6) When the package contract is terminated under para. 2, p. 2 and the traveler does not accept a travel package replacement, the tour operator shall recover all payments received from or on behalf of the traveler without undue delay and in any event no later than 14 days after the termination of the contract. (7) Upon termination of contracts for tourist packages under para. Article 6 shall apply accordingly. Reg. 91, para. 2... 8............................................................... § 34. Article 89 is amended as follows: Art. 89. (1) The traveller shall have the right to terminate the package contract at any time prior to the start of the package. (2) When the traveller terminates the contract under para. 1, it may be obliged to pay the tour operator an appropriate and justified fee for termination of the contract. (3) The package contract may provide for reasonable amounts of termination fees calculated on the basis of the moment when the contract is terminated before the start of the implementation of the package and the expected cost savings and revenue from the alternative operation of the tourist services. (4) Where no termination fees are indicated in the package contract, the termination fee shall correspond to the cost of the package from which the cost savings and revenues from the alternative operation of the tourist services are deducted. At the request of the traveler, the tour operator shall provide justification for the amount of the termination fees. (5) The traveller shall have the right to terminate the package contract before the start of the implementation of the package without paying any termination fee in the event of insurmountable and exceptional circumstances occurring or occurring at the place of destination or in the immediate vicinity of the package, which significantly affect the execution of the package or the carriage of passengers to the destination. (6) Upon termination of the package contract under para. 5, the traveller shall be entitled to full reimbursement of all payments made for the package, but shall not be entitled to additional compensation. (7) The tour operator shall have the right to terminate the tourist package contract and to reimburse the traveller in full all payments made for the package without further compensation where: 1. the number of participants raised for the package shall be less than the minimum number specified in the contract and the tour operator shall notify the traveller of the termination of the contract within the period specified in the contract, but no later than: (a) 20 days before the start of the implementation of the travel package in the case of trips of a duration greater than six days; (b) seven days before the start of the implementation of the travel package in the case of trips lasting from two to six days; (c) 48 hours before the start of the implementation of the travel package in the case of trips of less than two days' duration, or 2. the tour operator is prevented from fulfilling the contract due to insurmountable and exceptional circumstances and has notified the traveller of the termination of the contract without undue delay prior to the start of the implementation of the package. (8) The tour operator shall refund to the traveller all due amounts under para. 6 and 7, and upon termination of the package contract, refund all payments made for the package by or on behalf of the traveller after deduction of the relevant costs under para. 2 for termination of the contract. The amounts or payments due shall be reimbursed to the traveller without undue delay and in any event not later than 14 days after the termination of the package contract. § 35. Article 90 is amended as follows: Art. 90. (1) The tour operator shall be responsible for the implementation of the tourist services included in the package contract, regardless of whether those services are performed by it or by other tourist service providers. (2) The traveller shall notify the tour operator without undue delay of any non-compliance identified in the performance of the tourist service included in the package contract, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case. (3) Where one of the tourist services does not comply with the package contract, the tour operator shall be obliged to remedy the non-compliance unless: 1. this is not possible, or 2. is linked to disproportionate costs given the degree of non-compliance and the value of the tourist services concerned. (4) When the tour operator does not remove the non-compliance outside the cases under para. 3, p. Art. 1 and 2 shall apply. 91. (5) Outside the exceptions under para. 3 where the tour operator does not remedy the non-compliance within a reasonable period of time determined by the traveller, the traveler may do so himself and request the tour operator to recover the necessary costs. (6) Where the tour operator refuses to remedy the non-compliance or, where appropriate, the removal of the non-compliance immediately, the traveler shall not be obliged to set a time limit for the tour operator's removal. (7) Where a significant part of the tourist services cannot be fulfilled as provided for in the tourist package contract, the tour operator shall propose to the traveller, without any additional costs to it, other appropriate tourist services, where possible with the same or higher quality than those specified in the contract, in order to continue the execution of the package contract, including where the return of the traveller to the starting point of the journey is not provided as agreed. (8) When proposed by the tour operator other tourist services under para. 7 for the continuation of the performance of the contract lead to a change in the tourist package in a lower quality package than provided for in the contract, the tour operator offers the traveler an appropriate price reduction. (9) The traveller shall have the right to refuse the other tourist services proposed by the tour operator for the continuation of the contract only where they are not comparable to those provided for in the package contract or where the proposed price reduction is not appropriate. (10) Where the non-compliance between the services negotiated and actually provided significantly violates the performance of the contract and the tour operator does not remedy the non-compliance within a reasonable period set by the traveller, the traveller may terminate the package contract without any cost of termination of the contract and request a price reduction and/or compensation for the property and non-material damage suffered. (11) Where it is not possible to offer other tourist services for the continuation of the contract or when the traveler rejects the services offered by the tour operator under para. 9, the traveller shall be entitled to a reduction in the price and/or compensation for the damage suffered in accordance with art. 91 without terminating the package contract. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 10 and 11, where the package contract also includes the carriage of passengers, the tour operator shall ensure that the traveller is returned to the destination of the journey on an equivalent mode of transport without undue delay and without additional costs to the traveller. (13) Where, due to insurmountable and exceptional circumstances, it is not possible to ensure the return of the traveller as provided for in the package contract, the tour operator shall bear the costs of accommodation of the traveller, if possible, in an equivalent category of accommodation for a period of no more than three nights. Where other legislation on passenger rights provides for greater time limits in respect of the means of transport concerned for the return of the traveller, those time limits shall apply. (14) The limitation of the time limits under para. 13 shall not apply to persons with reduced mobility as defined in art. Regulation (EC) No 1107/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air travel (OJ L 204, 24 July 2006.) as well as with regard to accompanying persons, pregnant women, minors without an escort, as well as persons in need of special medical care, provided that the tour operator has been informed of their specific needs at least 48 hours before the start of the implementation of the travel package contract. (15) The tour operator cannot refer to insurmountable and exceptional circumstances in order to limit its liability under para. 13, where the provider of transport services cannot invoke such circumstances in accordance with the applicable European Union legislation. § 36. Article 91 is amended as follows: Art. 91. (1) The traveller shall be entitled to an appropriate price reduction for the time during which the services provided were inconsistent with the package contract, unless the tour operator proves that the absence of compliance is due to the traveller. (2) The traveller shall be entitled to receive compensation from the tour operator for any property and non-material damage suffered as a result of the absence of compliance with the tourist package contract. The compensation shall be made without undue delay by the tour operator. (3) The traveller shall not be entitled to compensation for damage suffered when the tour operator proves that the lack of compliance is due to: 1. the traveler; 2. a third party not related to the provision of the tourist package included in the contract and cannot be foreseen or prevented; 3. irresistible and extraordinary circumstances. (4) Where the liability of the tourist service providers included in the package contract is determined by international contracts ratified, promulgated in the Official Journal and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, or where those international contracts limit the amount of compensation due by the supplier, the same restrictions shall apply to the tour operator. (5) Where the liability of the tourist service providers included in the package contract is not determined by international contracts ratified, promulgated in the Official Journal and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, or where those international contracts do not limit the amount of compensation due by the supplier, the package contract may provide for an upper limit of the liability of the tour operator for damage caused to the traveler by default or inaccurate execution of the contract. The upper limit of the liability of the tour operator agreed in the package contract cannot be less than the three times the price of the tourist package.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u76	The provisions of para. 5 shall not apply in cases of bodily injury to the traveller and in cases of damage caused intentionally or by negligence. (7) The rights of compensation or reduction of the price granted to travellers under this law shall be without prejudice to their rights granted to them under Regulation (EC) 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules for compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights and repealing Regulation (EEC) 295/91 (OJ L 46/1 of 17 February 2004).), Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail transport (OJ L 315/14 of 3 December 2007.), Regulation 392/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents (OJ L 131/24 of 28 May 2009.), Regulation (EU) 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways and amending Regulation (EC) 2006/2004 (OJ L 334/1 of 17 December 2010.), Regulation (EU) 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and amending Regulation (EC) 2006/2004 (OJ L 55/1 of 28 February 2011.), as well as from the relevant international treaties ratified, promulgated in the Official Journal and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria. Travellers may file a claim for compensation or a price reduction in accordance with the provisions of that law or those EU regulations or relevant international treaties. (8) The compensation or reduction of the price granted on the basis of this law and the compensation or reduction of the price granted in accordance with those European Union Regulations and the relevant international treaties ratified, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union and entered into force on the Republic of Bulgaria shall be deducted mutually so as not to over-defense travelers. (9) The limitation period for making claims under this Article shall be two years. § 37. Article 92 is amended as follows: Art. 92. (1) The traveller may make communications, requests or complaints regarding the implementation of the package to the travel agent from whom he has purchased the package. The travel agent shall send without undue delay the messages, requests or complaints of the traveler to the tour operator. (2) The date of receipt of the specified in para. 1 messages, requests or complaints by the travel agent shall be considered as the date of receipt by the tour operator. § 38. Article 93 is amended as follows: Art. 93. (1) The tour operator shall provide without undue delay appropriate assistance to a troubled traveler, including in the cases referred to in art. 90, para. 13, and in particular, such as: 1. provide useful information to the traveller about health services, local authorities and the provision of consular assistance; 2. assists the traveler to carry out long-distance and/or international communications and to find alternative tourist services. (2) Where the difficulty of the traveller is caused intentionally or by negligence by him himself, the tour operator may require the payment of a reasonable fee by the traveller for the assistance rendered. (3) The fee under para. 2 may not exceed the actual costs incurred by the tour operator to assist the traveller. § 39. Article 94 is amended as follows: Art. 94. Where the tour operator or the travel agent pays compensation, grant a price reduction or fulfil other obligations arising from this law, the tour operator, the travel agent, respectively, shall be entitled to a regression claim against any third party contributing to the event that caused the compensation, the price reduction or the performance of another obligation. § 40. Article 95 is amended as follows: Art. 95. The provisions of art. Art. 86, Art. 89. 93 shall also apply to tourist services included in the provision of related tourist services where the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services has failed to fulfil his obligations under art. 82, para. 4 "6" and art. 105. § 41. Article 96 is amended as follows: Art. 96. (1) Traders shall be responsible for all errors made as a result of technical defects in the reservation system for which they are responsible and when they have agreed to arrange the reservation of a package or of tourist services which are part of related tourist services for the errors made during the booking process. (2) Traders shall not be liable for booking errors due to the traveller or caused by inpreventable and exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. I'm opening the debate. You have been offered texts in a package for paragraphs. Are there any speeches? There are no speakers. We're going to vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Danchev, which is not supported by the Commission. The proposal is by t. 1 point (a) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Vote 92 MPs: 31, against 44, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text, which is generally supported by the Commission, which is the text of the importer for § 23, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, it is proposed to form separate paragraphs from § 24 to § 41 inclusive. Please, voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 91, against 2, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u79	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 42 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u81	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25 which shall become § 43 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u82	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 44 and shall propose in art. 97b the word.........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u83	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 44, and the proposal of the Commission to amend the text of Article 26. 97b. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u84	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 45, and shall propose the following version of art. 98, para. 3: The Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him shall publish on the website of the Ministry of Tourism the following information on the insurance contracts under art. 97, para. 2: 1. the name of the trader (in Bulgarian and Latin letters), seat and address of the management; 2. telephone/fax and e-mail address; 3. A trader's ID or the basis on which the trader is entitled to conduct business under a special law, including by law of another Member State of the European Union, and of a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 4. the number and date of the concluded insurance contract under art. 97, para. 2, name of the insurer, period of validity of the insurance and the insurance amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u85	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 45, with the version proposed by the Commission, in the text of Article 27. 98, para. 3. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u87	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 46 and which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u88	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 29, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts (prom., SG No. 39 from 1974) proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs of § 47 to § 49. The Commission proposes to create new § 47 "49: ss ss s s s s s Article 99 is amended as follows: Art. 99. (1) The tour operator and/or the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services may, upon the occurrence of the insurance event, notify the insurance officer and provide him with information about his or her counterparties, suppliers and users of their services and provide the necessary assistance. The notification and submission of the information shall be made in writing with a copy to the Minister for Tourism. (2) The insurance officer shall inform the Minister of Tourism in writing of the occurrence of the insurance event no later than one day of its knowledge. (3) As soon as an insurance event occurs, the insured person shall take the necessary measures to ensure the continuation of the execution of the tourist packages or related tourist services or the repatriation of travellers under the terms of the concluded insurance contract. § 48. Article 100 is amended as follows: Art. 100. (1) The determination of the insurance compensation by the insurance company shall not deprive the traveller of his right to claim the compensation in judicial order. (2) Where the claim is brought by court, the tour operator or the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services shall be obliged to request the attraction of the insurance officer in the process. (3) The traveller may claim his claims directly against the insurance officer. § 49. Article 101 is amended as follows: Art. 101. (1) Insurance benefits under this Section shall be paid by the insurance officer who issued the insurance policy or by his authorised representative. (2) In cases where the financial liability of the tour operator or of the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services is determined by the court after the entry into force of the judgment, the persons entitled to submit certified copies of the documents entered into force together with the reasons, as well as certified copies of the file of the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29 and the proposal of the Commission to divide the text of the importer to § 29 into three new paragraphs - 47, 48 and 49 with corresponding texts on a proposal from the Commission presented to us by the National Representative Daniela Saveclieva. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u91	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 50 and which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u92	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 31, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts (prom., SG No. 39 from 1974) proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs from § 51 to § 58. The Commission proposes to create new § 51 ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 102 is amended as follows: Art. 102. Any insolvency and insolvency protection provided by a tour operator or trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services established in the territory of another Member State of the European Union in relation to the supply of tourist packages and related tourist services shall be recognised as valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. § 52. Article 103 is amended as follows: Art. 103. (1) Insurance under art. 97, para. 1 provides security for the reimbursement of all payments under a package contract made by or on behalf of travellers where the services concerned have not been fully or partially implemented as a result of non-payment with counterparties, insolvency or bankruptcy of the tour operator. (2) Where the travel package contract includes the carriage of passengers, the insurance under art. 97, para. 1 covers the repatriation of travelers. (3) The insurance provider may propose to the traveler the continuation of the travel package for which the traveller does not owe additional payments beyond those specified in the travel contract. Where travel package continuation activities constitute the organisation of a separate package, the insurance provider shall carry them out by means of a tour operator. (4) To ensure the fulfilment of the requirements under para. 2 and 3 insurance contracts shall specify the conditions and means of aid to cover those risks. (5) The insurance under art. 97, para. 1 shall cover the responsibility of the tour operator for damage caused to travellers under the provisions of this Section under travel package contracts concluded and paid during its period of operation, including the termination of the insurance contract. (6) Upon the occurrence of an insurance event in cases where a travel agent has sold a package organised by a tour operator and has reimbursed the amounts under para. 1, the travel agent enters into the rights of consumers of insurance services to the insurance provider under the insurance contract. (7) Traveller who wants to be compensated in cases under art. 103, para. 1 and self-covering its costs, is obliged to provide the insurer with evidence of the transport costs incurred by him, as well as for shelter and food for the time of his forced stay. (8) The insurance company shall have the right to refuse to pay the difference between the costs actually incurred and the two-fold amount of costs incurred by the consumer if it complies with the conditions laid down in the package contract. § 53. Article 104 is amended as follows: Art. 104. (1) The insurance amount under the contracts under art. 97, para. 1 shall be determined on the basis of the turnover declared by the tour operator to the insurance company for the previous year and the minimum levels in accordance with Annex No 9. (2) The declared turnover under para. 1 includes only revenue from the sale of tourist packages to travelers and does not include the turnovers from the sale of tourist packages to other tour operators. (3) The tour operator shall include in the declared turnover and the value of charter flights organised by him, regardless of whether they are sold by other tour operators or by travel agents. (4) The declaration of turnover shall be made by means of a model declaration approved by the Minister for Tourism. (5) To the declaration under para. 4 The insurer may require the application of financial data on the activity of the tour operator. (6) The insurance amount for the compulsory insurance of a tour operator providing a tourist package with a chartered flight shall not be less than 500 000 BGN § 54. Article 105 is amended as follows: Art. 105. (1) Insurance under art. 97, para. 2 covers the responsibility of the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services for the reimbursement of all payments received by travellers, in so far as the tourist service, which is part of a related tourist service, is not carried out as a result of non-payment with counterparties, insolvency or insolvency of the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services. (2) In cases where the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services is a party responsible for the carriage of passengers, the insurance covers their repatriation. (3) The insurance under art. 97, para. 2 covers the liability of the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services under the provisions of this Section for payments on related tourist services received during its period of operation, including the termination of the insurance contract. § 55. Article 106 is amended as follows: Art. 106. (1) The minimum insurance amount under the insurance contract under art. 97, para. 2 is defined as 10 percent of the turnover for the previous year of the tourist services referred to in para. 3. (2) In cases where the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services is a party responsible for the carriage of passengers, the amount of insurance liability shall be determined as 20 percent of the annual turnover of passenger services, part of the related tourist services for which the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services is responsible. (3) For the purposes of para. 1 account shall be taken of the turnover of related tourist services for which the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services has received payment from or on behalf of the traveller and where payment by the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services is made to the provider of the relevant tourist service within a period longer than one working day of receipt of the payment. (4) The amount of the insurance amount under para. 1 cannot be less than BGN 5000, but by para. 2 of 10 000 leva. (5) When the insurance contract is concluded, the circumstances under para. 2 and 3 shall be proved by a written declaration from the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services on a model approved by the Minister of Tourism. § 56. Article 107 is amended as follows: Art. 107. (1) In the event of an insurance event under art. 97, para. 2 The traveller shall have the right to choose between: 1. reimbursement of the amount paid for related tourist services; 2. provision of related tourist services in case this is possible by paying the amounts due to the tourist service provider. (2) Upon occurrence of an insurance event, if the tourist services included in the insurance amount under art. 106, para. 1 have already been granted to the traveller, the tourist service provider enters into the rights of the traveler to the insurance insurance contract. (3) Traveller who wants to be compensated for the insurance under art. 97, para. 2, is obliged to provide the insurer with evidence of the payments made by him to the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services. § 57. Article 108 is amended as follows: Art. 108. (1) For a central contact point to facilitate administrative cooperation and supervision of tour operators, travel agents and traders, which facilitate the provision of related tourist services that work in different Member States of the European Union, the Ministry of Tourism shall be designated. (2) The Central Contact Point of the Ministry of Tourism shall provide the central contact points of the other Member States with all relevant information regarding the requirements of this Act regarding the protection against the risks of insolvency and insolvency and of the person responsible for protecting against the risks of insolvency and insolvency of individual tour operators and traders facilitating the provision of related tourist services established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The Central Contact Point of the Ministry of Tourism shall provide public access to the register of tour operators and travel agents, as well as to the information under art. 98, para. 4, including online, which contain information on the fulfilment of the obligations under art. 97, para. 1 and 2. (4) The Central Contact Point of the Ministry of Tourism shall provide the central contact points of the other Member States of the European Union, access to the register of tour operators and travel agents, as well as to the information under art. 98, para. 4, including online, containing data on the fulfilment of the obligations under art. 97, para. 1 and 2. (5) In the case of a request from a central contact point of another Member State of the European Union concerning the protection against the risks of insolvency and insolvency of a tour operator and/or trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services, the response shall be sent as soon as possible depending on the urgency and complexity of the matter, but not later than 15 working days from receipt of the request. § 58. Article 109 is amended as follows: Art. 109. (1) The declaration by the tour operator of the tourist package or by the trader facilitating the provision of a related tourist service that it acts exclusively as a tourist service provider, as an intermediary or in any other quality shall not exempt it from the obligations laid down in Section II and under this Section. (2) Announcement by the tour operator of the tourist package or by the trader facilitating the provision of a related tourist service that a tourist package or related tourist service does not constitute a tourist package or a related tourist service does not exempt the tour operator or the trader facilitating the provision of related tourist services from the obligations laid down in Section II and under this Section. (3) Any clause in a contract or statement of a traveler which directly or indirectly results in a waiver of rights or a limitation of rights to travellers granted to them under Section II and under this Section or which is intended to circumvent the application of the provisions of those Sections shall not be binding on the traveller.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which the Commission proposes to divide into separate paragraphs with numbers 51 to 58 including, with a text in the relevant paragraphs on a proposal from the Commission submitted to us by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Saveclieva. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u94	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 59, but here I would like to ask for a purely technical correction. You see, the law is very big. I'm sure we won't be able to do it today. By the end of the Law we have three times many minor technical amendments and one of them is in § 32: in the last paragraph the words of the said chapters are dropped. Please, together with the so-called............................. to vote on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u95	If the requests under those chapters are dropped, what is it that comes in their place? Please read the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u96	I read the whole text: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is inserted in Section III. 109a: Art. 109a. Where the tour operator is established outside the European Economic Area, the tourist agent established in one of the Member States shall be bound by the obligations laid down for the tour operator in art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer in this form.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 59 with the correction in the text proposed by the MP Petar Kanev. Please vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u99	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 60 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u100	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u101	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 61 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u103	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 62 and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u104	And perhaps for today's last paragraph, the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-18.u105	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 63 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 19 April 2018, in accordance with the adopted programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
