ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will give your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for December 14, 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Importer: Vezdi Rashidov on 19 October 2018. Adopted in first vote on 14 November 2018. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. Exporters: Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018; Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Iskren Veselinov on 16 November 2018. 3. First vote on bills amending the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Exporters: Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs on 9 October 2018; the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, a joint draft drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 25 October 2018. Importers: Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018; Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Hristov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. 5. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers: Mikhail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018. 6. Draft decision to complete the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Importer: Cornelia Ninova on 27 November 2018. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer: Council of Ministers on 20 November 2018 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. Adopted at first vote on 9 November 2018. Colleagues, this will not be the first point for Thursday, because Mrs. Stoyanova informed me that she should hold an additional meeting of the Commission. 9. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer: Alexander Nenkov and group of MPs on 28 November 2018. The first point for Thursday. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union. Importer: Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018. Adopted at first vote on 8 November 2018. Point 2 for Thursday 13 December 2018 11. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Importer: Danail Kirilov on 10 December 2018. Point 1 for Friday 14 December 2018 12. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. Importer: Council of Ministers on 20 October 2018 Colleagues, at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents, it was decided as a 13th item today to enter the National Assembly's Work Programme this week: Draft decision to establish a Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Importers: Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs on 26 July 2018. 14. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 134 against 4, abstention 43. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal from the parliamentary group of the party. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to hold a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov regarding the revelations of irregularities and abuses in the supply of food to the army. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include the hearing as a point in the National Assembly's Programme for the period from 12 December to 14 December 2018, and due to the high level of public importance of this problem, we propose that it be the first item of our programme on 12 December 2018. ............................................... Who will justify the request from the parliamentary group of the party? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not think that there is a need to justify by who knows what statement our proposal to listen to Minister Karakachanov, as we all know that in the transmission of bTV were presented.. or at least this was the sound of.......................... pretty serious facts about abuse and possible corruption, which should be investigated by the prosecution, but this is the decision of the Prosecutor General and the authorities. Our proposal is in the National Assembly to listen to Minister Karakachanov, and we believe that the most important thing is for him to answer us first, the questions we should ask him, to dispel the doubts or to deepen them. Therefore, we call on all of you to support our proposal to call on Minister Karakachanov and to obtain an adequate answer as to whether there is really reasonable doubt about corruption schemes in the order for food for the army, or whether there is no basis for such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A counteroffer? General Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. This point on this issue will be addressed in the Defence Committee tomorrow. Given that all the facts are presented by the Minister of Defence, colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of Volja and all MPs in the Commission will listen to Minister Karakachanov and, if they are not satisfied, this issue of discussion and hearing the Minister of Defence can be put forward next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u5	Thank you, dear General Popov. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a proposal from the party. Please vote. Vote 179 MPs: for 76, against 21, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On December 10th, 70 years ago, the UN General Assembly adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a declaration that embodies the dreams, aspirations and hopes of peoples and individuals living in dignity, equality and security. Its extreme importance and timing are also supported by the fact that it is translated into 375 languages and dialect, which makes it the most translated document in the world. Two years later, the date 10 December 1948 on which the Universal Declaration was adopted became an International Human Rights Day. After the end of World War II, which was a clash not only of weapons and strategies, but also of international opposition to Fascism and Nazi crimes, the issue of personality rights became a global problem of modern human civilization. As a result of the need for the adoption and inclusion in the social practice of the countries of uniform criteria for the content of human rights, the UN adopts a Declaration stating for the first time the types of rights of civil, political, economic, social and cultural. The importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is enormous. It lays the basis for the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and stimulates the creation of numerous international human rights treaties. The protection of the rights and freedoms of each individual and anti-discrimination policy are a top priority of the European Union. This year, along with the achievement of gender equality, the promotion of women's and children's rights, the fight against racism, xenophobia and violence, also focused on protecting human rights in the new digital, technological environment and in the area of climate change, as well as on informing wider areas of society about the importance of human rights and improving prevention, rapid response and accountability. The Republic of Bulgaria ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1992 together with a series of protocols that improve its operation. The values of the European Convention are embedded in the Bulgarian basic law as a classic norms for the functioning of a modern, democratic society. The international treaties ratified by Bulgaria are among the constitutional provisions and it is necessary to comply with national legislation. In Bulgaria, the state policy in the field of human rights is aimed at ensuring equality of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation, equal rights and opportunities of women and men, protection of the rights of the child and vulnerable groups of Bulgarian society. The election of our country in October this year in the framework of the Seventy-third Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York with the support of 180 out of 188 attended and voted members of the UN, a member of the Human Rights Council for the period 2019 - 2021 is recognition for our active policy and contribution to promoting and protecting human rights at national and global level, as well as for the voluntary commitments made in this area. Yes, we have succeeded and we have achieved a great deal and yes, there is still much, much work to be done! We're not fooling ourselves that it's all decided. This matter is an integral part of our lives today, extremely alive and dynamic, constantly evolving, emerging new and new challenges that we need to take into account and deal with. The results achieved are important, but it is even more important to make them sustainable and withstand the time check. More than ever, we need to be united against extremism, xenophobia and racism and irreconcilable to the withdrawal of basic and inalienable human right to life. We categorically stand behind the thesis that protection and respect for human rights is and must be shared care and responsibility not only at all levels of government, but also of all citizens. We continue to work towards improving legislation prohibiting acts of violence in all its forms, intolerance and intolerance. It should be noted that in order for these conditions to be effective, along with legislative measures, it must continue through various tools and the education process, and the formation of the thinking of each of us in a spirit of tolerance and tolerance and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms in relation to the differences of others. Today, we are witnessing unresolved conflicts and perennial feuds, ethnic differences and religious intolerance, which in their final stages come to civil wars. Adding to all this and the global problems related to the refugee wave, poverty, hunger and disease, the increase in migration processes and others, it turns out that more than ever we need to work towards preventing and achieving sustainable results to solve human rights problems. Dear colleagues, finally let me put it this way: we are different, we have different dreams and longings, different ideas and goals. They make up our world piece by piece. They give it colour, they make it grow, but only if we allow it, if we are tolerant and respect different faiths and ethnicities, we give our precious and colorful nuance in the common European picture in the name of peace, the well-being and prosperity of each of us only if we respect the significant and inalienable universal principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights "Human dignity, freedom, equality, brotherhood." Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the draft laws and decisions for the period from 5 to 11 December 2018: A bill ratifying the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Countering Corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Importer "Daniel Kirilov." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Social Services Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Health. Moving on to the first point of the work programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importer "Vezhdi Rashidov" People's Representative. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Radio and Television Act No 854-01-75, submitted by Vezhdi Rashidov on 19 October 2018, adopted on the first vote on 14 November 2018. The amendment and supplement of the Radio and Television Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u9	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 129, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u11	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 2 and 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u12	'Concluding provision.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 4 and both texts shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u14	Mr. Chairman, just to let you know that a letter has been received from the Association. If you'll allow me, I'll read you some of the letter. The children from the Children's Choir of the Bulgarian National Radio and their parents would like to express our great appreciation for your understanding and support to the Children's Radio Choir during the difficulties in People's activities this summer. With your help the Children's Radio choir continues its life with the best that it can donate to its audience concerts with beautiful and exciting music. Sincerely, Daniela Kalajdjieva, Chairman of the Association. Thank you all and me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Colleagues, we continue with the second point of the program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mr. Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov on 16 November 2018. At its meeting held on 5 December 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018, and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Veselev Veselinov on 16 November 2018. The meeting was attended by: from the Central Election Commission (CEC) Mrs. Ivilina Alexiev, Mrs. Rositsa Mateva, Mrs. Maria Boykinova, Mrs. Kristina Stefanova, Mrs. Kamelia Neykova, Mr. Alexander Andreyev and Mr. Erhan Chaushev; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Vasil Durev, Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Representation. Mr. Simeon Naydenov presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018. He pointed out that the Law aims to improve the legal framework of the status of the electoral committees and to clarify the order for formation of the compositions by proposing the parties and coalitions that have elected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria, but are not parliamentary represented, not to be able to propose members in the regional, municipal and sectary committees. The introduction of video surveillance in each selection election commission is proposed throughout the election day to be broadcast on the site of the regional electoral commission. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Christian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Vasilev on 16 November 2018, was presented by Mr. Mitev, who pointed out that it aims to improve the legal framework and create a more effective process of organization and production of elections. It is envisaged that the specialized voting devices will be produced in all polling stations. An opportunity shall be introduced for the Central Election Commission to determine the number and numbers of the polling stations in which machine voting is to be made, followed by their number not to be less than 1000. A machine vote is envisaged not to be produced in polling stations with less than 300 voters, when voting with a mobile electoral box, at polling stations in hospitals, old people's homes and other specialized institutions for providing social services, at polling stations of vessels under Bulgarian flag and at polling stations outside the country. It is proposed that the parties and coalitions will be arranged in the way the lot is drawn, according to art. 262 of the Election Code, but the order not to be given as numbering to the parties or coalitions in the ballot. The bill proposes that the remote electronic vote should be implemented step by step after ensuring sufficient guarantees for the secret of the vote and a mechanism for realising and guaranteeing security. Aims to provide a reasonable period of time for further studies and to create additional protections until the overall implementation of remote electronic voting. Ms. Ivilina Alexieva and Mrs. Vanya Nusheva took part in the discussion. Ms. Alexieva expressed her support for the bill, paying attention to the difficulties of introducing the machine voting in the special sections, which were created 48 hours before the election day. She noted that the remote electronic voting should be implemented gradually by tying to the electronic identification under the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act. The President of the CEC stressed that they would not have expressed an opinion on dropping the number to a party or coalition in the voting ballot, but if adopted, it could be technically implemented. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev, Desislava Atanasova, Pencho Milkov and Simeon Naydenov. The chairman of the commission Danail Kirilov noted that several options were discussed to overcome the match between the number of the party and the number of the candidate in the respective list as a reference. He said he would support the option of the numbering of the parties to remain, but it would be different from that of the candidates in the lists. MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid stressed that they support the overall introduction of the machine voting, but noted that they are against combining machine voting and voting with paper ballots, as the work of the election committees is being extended. They expressed their negative opinion on remote electronic voting and preferential voting. Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Hamid expressed their support for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs, which provides video surveillance of the vote counting in the election section. Mr. Zarkov expressed his negative opinion on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Christian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov, noting that if the service company works in specialized voting devices, controls them and counts the results, then there is no point in the activities of the CEC. He recalled that the possibility of machine voting had been envisaged as early as 2014, but the CEC failed to meet the requirements of the Law and noted that it opposed the limitation of the possibility of machine voting. Mr. Milkov and Mr. Zarkov expressed their support for the proposal to introduce video surveillance in the polls. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he would support both the bills proposed for discussion. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 14 votes for the election code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018; - with 14 votes "for", 3 votes against........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll brief you on the motives of the Election Code. The proposed legislative change provides for a change in the composition of the members of the regional electoral committees, municipal electoral committees and sectional election committees. Proposals for the composition of these committees may make parliamentary parties and coalitions. Each parliamentary party or coalition shall participate in the election committee with as many members as they correspond to the percentage of actual votes it has received in the last parliamentary elections by participating with not less than one member in its composition. The leaderships in the sectional election committees across the country must correspond to the ratio of the last parliamentary elections between parliamentary parties and coalitions. This will introduce the possibility for each parliamentary party and coalition to participate in the leadership of the sectional election committees with as many members as they meet the percentage of the actual votes it has received in the last parliamentary elections. The proposal will enable all parliamentary parties to have representatives in election committees to respect the regularity of elections. In this way, the possibility of manipulating election results will be reduced and greater transparency will be ensured during the election day. The introduction of video surveillance in the electoral sections will enable voters to monitor the election day live on the site of the Regional Election Commission and each citizen will be able to monitor the relevant electoral commission and submit signals in cases of established violations of the Election Code. The proposed measure strengthens control over the elections and will increase voters' confidence in the actual election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for the presentation of the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you are well aware, the Committee on Legal Affairs has repeatedly conducted communication and discussion with the Central Election Commission on the activity which we have entrusted them with the Election Code, including on the occasion of their requests for the difficulties and problems they have encountered in carrying out this work and this activity. The Central Election Commission has regularly presented to the National Assembly an analysis for the conduct of the respective types of elections. In the present case, the basis of this bill is in the analysis of the electoral process in the period 2015 - 2017. In the reasons, we have detailed the data and the work carried out in relation to the two types of electronic voting, the electronic remote voting and the electronic machine voting. In this process, indeed, in view of the larger period of time during which the experimental votes were carried out, the stage of the introduction of the machine voting, it seems to me that we can clearly state that the machine voting has already been validated as a means of voting in Bulgarian selective law. In the provisions of the Election Code, the latest amendments to this regulation provided for a full, comprehensive application of machine voting, including in the sections in which we have a special organisational element or status. I'm not going to repeat them, I also listed them in the Committee on Legal Affairs Report. The greatest difficulty in these sections would cause the supply of voting machines at sections abroad, because this would mean, in addition to the expedition of the machine in the foreign country concerned, that a software support team should be provided, respectively, for this additional alternative method of voting. In some cases and in the analyses there are difficulties in this direction and with the verification of the software for these types of votes in which we have two rounds. I also point out that, in the votes so far, the engine and electronic vote is in local elections mode and has been experimented and offered only in the election part of municipal councillors. For this reason and in view of the considerations that were developed at both meetings held at the working meeting with the Central Election Commission and with representatives of the Council of Ministers, there was consensus in the central electoral body on the need for adjustments and amendments to legislation, with a view to dropping the absoluteness of machine voting in all polling stations. I stress that this does not mean that we have proposed the deletion or refusal of this type of vote. The statistics, which are detailed in the analysis of the Central Election Commission, indicate that there was initially an increasing interest in this voting method, and subsequently we have a normalisation of the interest in machine voting. We have also repeatedly discussed the extent of this regulation in the Law to which machine voting simplifies the electoral process, as the result of the vote is not perceived, reflected and recorded automatically, directly and immediately, but is reflected in the protocols of the section polling stations through the control counting of receipts from the electronic machine voting. So this means that we have a simultaneous, that is, a double implementation of the counting by this method. In addition to errors, there have been cases where the memory of a flash drive has not been transmitted by the relevant machine in section election committees. With regard to the second approach, we have also widely discussed it, and I also confirm our serious ambition to make this possible when we have the technological security and collateralisation of the electronic remote voting process. Much is being speculated at present in the public domain, but I point out again that we are not giving up the plan that was set out in the Election Code in the latest amendment in connection with the signing of the measures for this method of voting. We respect the will of the Bulgarian electorate, which was reflected in the referendum on this issue. At the same time, we cannot ignore it, and we cannot fail to analyse the changes in trust in this way, France's refusal. In France, this technique was applied experimentally, partially, until it was denied and is not currently being implemented. With the President of the National Assembly, we had the opportunity three weeks ago to welcome the doyen of constitutional law in France, who said on this issue: "Didn't you realize that this issue is no longer relevant? We tried and it didn't work out. So the efforts should continue here, including not only technologically, but also our efforts to maintain and develop trust in this way. I stress that this way of voting for us is important because of the opportunity to integrate more actively into the electoral process the Bulgarian voters living outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Last and briefly on the issue, which arose with the preferential vote.. 15/15, 6/6 and the like. For example, we have proposed one of the options that are possible to solve this problem. Once again, I myself, as an importer, have changed my opinion, and instead of not having the number in front of the parties, I would suggest that the digital numbering remain, but it is launched for the preferential vote of a different number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed bills. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the forefront of GERB's motives of the bill under consideration it is noted that the objectives of this proposal are: to improve the legal framework, to create a more effective process of organization and holding elections. It is not the first time that words are written and read and composed sentences stencilly and without much meaning, but this project achieves new heights, or rather lows, in the lawmaking of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In general, this week's agenda, with this Election Code, with the Penal Code, which we will be discussing in a moment, and especially with the proposals on the Anti-Corruption Law introduced on Monday, and which you want to vote on Friday, we will end the year with fireworks. We will blow solemnly into the air all possible standards of normity in a legal and political sense. The festival is open with the Election Code and let's see how it improves the legal framework and for whom it improves it. The main proposal, the measure of this alleged improvement, is in essence the annulment of a long-standing obligation of the responsible CEC, but according to art. 18 of the current Election Code and the other competent authorities of the executive power, they had to give each voter the right to vote by paper or by the machine voting ballot, and this right was written in the Law five years ago. For five years, our permanent electoral administration has failed to manage the provision of several thousand machines for the election day. Our country, Bulgaria, a country of astronauts, proud of its achievements in the IT sector and broadband access to the Internet, has crashed in front of the elementary requirement of the Election Code in relation to several simple machines equipped with not particularly complex software. This could not happen. The CEC cut off, and the importers rushed to agree to this non-appliance sentence. In recent weeks, I have argued with the defenders of this idea in public debates, in the media, in the Legal Committee, and I know that whatever I say they have decided, but I am addressing the other Members in this House, each of whom will be responsible for their own vote. I have a few questions regarding the engine vote, and if you can answer at least one with the right to vote, then you have sufficient reason to support the Law. If you cannot, then the matter remains between you, your understanding of the role of the MP and ultimately your constituents. Is there any answer to the question: after the adoption of this text, in the next election, how many sections of the country will there be voting machines? I remind you that there are more than 12 thousand sections. According to the proposal, such devices should have at least a thousand, but at what time? At 2,000, at 3,000, at 1445? What time? Will there be in your district, will there be in your sections? Which one? And when I say in which sections, can anyone explain by what criteria the CEC will decide that there is a machine in one section and there is no machine in another section? The only objective criterion enshrined in the Law is to have at least 300 voters. Okay, but in most sections, especially in big cities, everyone meets that requirement. Imagine the citizen Petrov and the citizen Dimitrov, who live in the same electoral area, voted in two neighbouring schools or even in two sections in the same school and for one there is a machine, and for the other one there is not, one has the right to choose, and the other is not. Why and on what grounds? Because the CEC had decided. Do not doubt that the complaints of your constituents CEC will refer again to you.. to the legislator, with the simple explanation that such is the Law. Because, I'm sure, there's no reasonable person out there who believes that the task of purchasing machines is a mission impossible. The third question that I have for you is why are those who intend to support this law? Why, when it is clear that there is distrust in the electoral process, in counting in the sectional election committees, in drawing up the protocols, in transporting them, and this distrust is so great, why is a simple measure stopped that could contribute to its overcoming? Why?! However, the answer here may not Or does someone not want to have a machine vote precisely because of the improvements it provides in terms of the honesty of the electoral process, and that someone is not the voters who, by the way, in the reasons of the Bill is written, there is clear evidence that they have an interest in this type of vote, or do the importers just want to please the Central Election Commission and release them from a clearly impossible burden for them? Both are not equally scandalous explanations, but equally unacceptable. In any case, be assured that the only result of the adoption of this law will be an even lower degree of trust and an even greater rift between voters and their electors. This will be the result of another improvement in the legal framework, all the more so that the legal framework adopted, I guarantee you, will soon have to be amended again. First of all, between the two readings, the Law will be rewritten because of its number of technical defects and some frank gibberish, I leave aside the legal and technical aspects, they are not the most important in this case. But please bear in mind the nonsense you're voting on. For example, the bill envisions the service of the Ministry of Information to build machines and the necessary programs for them. The Chairman of the Management Board of the company Prof. Konstantinov explained to the media the other day, and quite figuratively that this company is unable to fulfil the legal obligation that he is involved in this way. Or, in other words, by this law, in one swing in two or three paragraphs, importers declare a simple purchase for machines absolutely impossible and at the same time create really objectively impossible rules to implement. That is what you will do with your vote in a moment. Congratulations to the CEC, congratulations to the service and congratulations to the voters! Voters who, by the way, have been lied to for years and on another issue, the one about electronic remote voting. With what alumnus in this hall GERB's electors in the previous National Assembly declared themselves defenders of the people's will in connection with the referendum held at the time, in which a really huge group of people asked for such a type of vote. With what arrogance then, look at the transcripts, all warnings made about the risks inherent in this type of vote have been rejected. Especially among our countrymen abroad, legitimate expectations have been created that after 1 January 2018 such a system will work. Today, much more minor, somehow silently this was canceled for an indefinite period of time with the same arguments that yesterday the same people considered absolutely retrograde. But, speaking of time limits, and this Parliament, this requires separate attention: the time limits for introducing machine voting, we clearly conclude them; the time limits for electronic identification through personal documents, postponed; the time limits for the mayors' obligations to make general planning plans will postpone them shortly; deadlines for registers; deadlines for fees; deadlines for all kinds of things are postponed. And if something's not delayed, there's no problem, we'll reverse it. That's how this meeting works. No Election Code, no Penal Code, no Anti-Corruption Law. The Rules of Procedure cannot be written like this! My fellow Members of the majority, I call on you not to support this bill. This will not be an act of retreat, it will be a sign of common sense that our country desperately needs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Hamid, you're on record. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group will support both proposed legislations. We believe that they are the right but not a sufficient step towards returning citizens' trust in our electoral system. Not enough, because our position is to go only to a machine vote. We need to get the paper ballots out of the election process. We need to remove the paper and pen from the election process. Colleagues, I am convinced that we will see the benefits of engine voting in the first elections where it is applied. The foot is insufficient because we predict it to start with at least 1,000 sections. Our opinion and desire is for the engine vote to be massive and for the next election to start in all sections. I see no problem in all the usual sections except those in prisons, hospitals and mobile ones, having voting machines. This will restore to a large extent the trust of Bulgarian citizens in our electoral system. On the proposed attempt to solve the problem with this phenomenon, 15/15 we believe that there are several better options for solving it and we will propose them between first and second readings. I think removing party numbers from the integral newsletter is not a good option and creates doubts about the introduction of an educational cent, which we have heard in the media in recent days. We'll offer some solutions. Our opinion is that the preference failed to be established and did not play the role for which it was introduced to be a majority element. The reference turned out to be only a means of internal party control of the vote. So staying at the conference, we think, is quite discussional. We will propose that it be rejected at all by our electoral legislation or at least calculated in a way that will not allow a large family to rearrange, to choose municipal councillors and MPs against the will of all party organizations. There's been a lot of talk. The debate on the remote electronic vote has been going on for a long time. We also heard Mr. Zarkov's opinion. Colleagues, right now the whole world is talking about cyber warfare, cyber attacks, cyber threats. Much more technologically advanced countries had gone down that road and canceled the remote electronic vote. At present, we do not see sufficient guarantees that would guarantee the security of the vote, taking into account the results and hindering all these cyber threats. If today in Bulgaria these IT specialists, who say there are sufficient guarantees, are the same IT specialists who have worked on the security of the Commercial Register, on the sites of the Ministry of Justice, on the website of the Ministry of Internal Affairs................................................................................... the introduction of such a system?................................................................................................................................................! There are absolutely no guarantees for the security of the vote. There is another big problem here, and there is a lack of public control over this whole process, the role of advocate in this remote vote is missing, so we will wait for better times and more reliable systems. There was a lot of talk about the so-called Blockchain technology that was so sure, you see, there would be no problem with voting. I would just like to remind you that last year, in one of the most advanced cybersecurity countries in this regard, South Korea, Bitcoin technology stole over 80 million bitcoins from blockchain technology. The dollar. So let those who talk about blockchain technology security read some news in this direction. We will support the introduction of video surveillance in all sections. This is also an element of returning trust to the electoral system. We have proposed the introduction of video surveillance in the Forty-third National Assembly.. Unfortunately, it was not then accepted. It works successfully in many countries, we have seen it in our elections monitoring missions outside Bulgaria, so this is a good, positive step. Of course, there we only need to detail the secret of the vote around the voting booth, but we have our own texts and we will offer them between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not comment on all proposals for amendments to the Election Code. Some of them, like video surveillance, we've even offered and supported. Interesting were the arguments with which you rejected it when we proposed it. I will not comment on them because a change deserves our attention, and this is precisely the cancellation of the engine vote. I want to ask you: what changed in those few years when you accepted the machine vote and the remote electronic vote until now when you basically canceled it? First of all, the political myth of GERB's invincibility changed and broke. Public attitudes and moods have changed. An alternative came up and you were scared. Here, of course, your autoimmune survival mechanism is triggered. Of course, survival only goes through power consumption. Of course, in order for such consumption to occur, you should be chosen. How can they choose you when you're not so loved, to put it mildly? First, you create the political myth that this is not so that you bathe in folk love and then change the rules from objectivity to subjectivity, from a smaller possibility of manipulation to a greater possibility of manipulation. All of this under the pretext of democracy, compared to other European and non-European countries and lack of money. In terms of democracy. It is clear that transparency and the inability to influence the electoral process and the election result is the more democratic way. That's what happens, of course, with the engine vote. How has it been in other countries, and how is it with us, with regard to machine voting? The situation is the same as at the time you proposed and voted on the engine vote.. Nothing changed there. There was no money. This is not even worth commenting on the billions you allocated to the Council of Ministers for last year. Of course, it makes sense that no one would give up money to be deposed. That's logic, and I understand that logic of yours. The question here is: why do we even legislate? Because in the Law, which should have the characteristics of predictability, stability, transparency nothing like this happens. We legislate according to the direction of the wind. That is, you make the law after the law chaos, darkness and GERB above. This has happened in the last few years: laws are passed, then amended; deadlines are extended; new proposals are refused. Everything directed according to the situation, according to the moods of today's and tomorrow's, and how GERB to survive in power. For the last parliamentary elections the invalid ballots are 169 thousand for the country. The four percent barrier is 136,000. That is, in order for a political force to enter the National Assembly, it needed 136 thousand votes. One hundred sixty-nine thousand are invalid. How do you combat this phenomenon with the invalid voices? By canceling the engine vote, you cancel this method, which would clearly reduce the possibility of manipulation, on the one hand, because the subjective element, the human factor is excluded and, of course, the possibility of errors in filling the newsletter itself and leading it to invalid voices. On the other hand, you want to make a change in the electoral rules and the introduction, in general, of a hidden educational cent with the cancellation of the box in front of the party with its number. That's what you do, on the one hand, under the pretext of not having so many null and void ballots so people don't get involved. On the other hand, in absolute contradiction to your claim, you cancel the machine vote, which is the actual method, the actual factor, not having so many invalid voices. Unfortunately for me, the truth is the one I started with. My speech is political, not legal or technical, because there is nothing legal, nothing technical in these changes that you propose. There's only politics here. And politics is aimed at the official winning of the next election, whatever they are. It is not a question in the lack of finance, it is not a question of the inability to introduce the machine voting. The point is that GERB has since accumulated a lot of negative in society and got scared. And now, of course, before the respective elections, the electoral rules need to be changed, which, by the way, is contrary to the opinion of the Venice Commission, in terms of when and how election rules should change, which you almost never follow, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov has the floor to say. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am impressed that this discussion passes with the same tone and with the same momentum that passed the votes under the State Budget Act. I just want to remind you that there was an almost identical discussion about the fact that you, in the embryo, took away the possibility of introducing machine voting in the nearest future, in the foreseeable future, the texts that were adopted years ago. You slept through the time you could find a supplier from abroad. You slept through the time in which a Bulgarian supplier could make and manufacture such machines and they could be applied. Why is this being done? The answer is one and adamant. The goal of the current government is to continue an extremely well-crafted practice of manipulation in the vote of Bulgarian citizens. Dear rulers, do you not notice that in recent years, the number of voters in the country has been decreasing in some kind of progression, whether geometrical or algebraic, whatever you want? No more than 50% of Bulgarian citizens who have voting rights go out to vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov from GERB.]] Don't replicate me from the gym. Step out of the stands and replicate me. I have been actively involved in elections since 2005 and I know how fast Bulgarian citizens refuse to vote who goes for mushrooms, who goes somewhere else. The main reason they gave up their right to vote in the last 10 years is because they sense a predestination, a predestination of the vote. One foreword that you have created over the years is you, gentlemen of GERB, with various attachments, whether it be the Reformers, whether now Patriots, or anyone else. Unfortunately, the only possible way to restore the trust of citizens in the institutions, in the possibility of expressing their vote freely, is precisely through a machine voting, the possibility in front of a machine that should not be able to be manipulated. After their vote a card should come out, which should not be able to manipulate any member of the sectary electoral committee. You say this will happen somewhere, unknown when. It is not enough that you instantly reduce the number of sections, but at the rate at which you change the legislation, this could happen, say, after 10, after 20, 30 years. What prevented, honourable Members, those funds that we had already proposed in the State Budget Act to leave them there, to be voted on, to start the proceedings? Here to open a brace.. You are doing a race with one horse, defining.. Information service.... as the only possible manufacturer of these machines, provided that, as the colleagues said, the head of the Board of Directors says they cannot handle it. This means that you put us even more in the mud and reduce the opportunity of the Bulgarian citizens to express their free will. Of course, that's what you do anyway. Despite what the Venice Commission has told you, six months before elections, there should be no changes to the electoral legislation, despite the Bulgarian citizens who have repeatedly told you in recent months that it is harmful to them, it is harmful to every Bulgarian citizen, to every future Bulgarian citizen. You are also damaging those who have given their contribution to the Bulgarian state have retired. You do it against those who will be born or will not be born, because you do not allow young families to create their generation in the future. With such actions, you are increasingly refusing a Bulgarian citizen to believe in his own country. The only useful move you can make today is to really reject this bill. This is something that throws us into an endless cycle of manipulation of elections. It's the truth! Because, as my colleague Philip Popov said, 169 thousand. invalid ballots are an awful lot. I know what's being done in election committees, I've been involved in elections, I know how ballots are being replaced, we've seen how ballots are being worn, how whole committees' materials disappear, and then they show up, how patrols carry papers from election sections. At the moment you are saying: "Dear Bulgarian citizens, all that you are doing, all those referendums that have taken place, all that you want, you said from the street and in all forms, we leave it behind, we don't care! We're driving ahead. Our main goal is to preserve this majority by winning in any way in the European elections, so that we can scream in some way to the locals. In my opinion, this experience will fail, not to say that it may happen to you before Europeans do and parliamentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u29	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, did you want a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u30	If there are any other lines, I'll take a line too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u31	Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The previous speaker said he knew everything about the election process. This tempts me to put the following question: at a press conference of the BSP after the 2011 elections, how did Sofia's then leader Rumen Ovcharov show up, deliver original protocols to 27 minutes of 27 section election committees in Sofia? Yes, it's important that I know the answer to that question. In addition, to make sure that you know, I want you to describe the technological steps from here, what does the sectary electoral committee do where there is a machine vote? Just tell the other MPs in a machine-voting how members of the SIC act, which data do they fill out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Lazarov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Ivanov, how early did you get to surrender for the upcoming European elections? You've already started declaring your excuse for losing this election. I'm sorry. At least wait a month, two, three to come before the election. You've already taken to the Election Code, the Venice Commission, but contradictions, six months... To remind you that the current Election Code was adopted at a much shorter time before the elections. Need I remind you? May I remind you that there was no report of the Venice Commission, or did there have some parts, and you didn't want to publish it the current Election Code? May I remind you that you voted and adopted this Election Code? From now on, you've started talking about manipulations, fake ballots. You're running in front of the wind. You're running in front of the wind!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u35	We've experienced it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u36	You've experienced it. May I remind you of your experience in the public domain 2011 by your representatives, how you will manipulate the software, because otherwise you cannot win the election?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u37	The mayor of Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u38	Yes, you said "unactual newsletters"............................................................................................................................................................... Well, yeah, it's 200 and a few thousand. Many of them are due to difficulties in completing the ballots. They are no less than before, or more than before. Very early, very early you took to announce, to seek your reasons and the reasons from now that you will lose the upcoming elections because you have no other policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u39	Lazarov, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u40	From now on, you're starting to heat up the tension.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u41	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear gentlemen replicating, I really can't understand is your memory that short, or is this where you come to work inviolably? Everyone's new to you, and the previous one's missing? Mr. Kirilov, I don't know what protocols Ovcharov was carrying, but I do know Mr. Ivanov, who is right across the street from me, carrying around some bags of ballots back and forth. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know how every year we show protocols from sectional election committees and election committees, where there is obviously manipulation. There's obviously manipulation! Non-compliances between the number of voters, the number of preferences, whatever else you think of. You're killing opportunity in the bud. All of this has to go away. I don't understand at the moment why you're giving me a line instead of supporting our proposal that this law be dropped, the machines come in and stop? Then we will discuss how they will be completed and what the Chairs of the SICs will fill out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u43	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u44	Mr. Lazarov, my proposal in a single direction is that you accept it to come out with dignity from this situation, to lose the elections with dignity, not manipulation. Because you're gonna lose them anyway. At least say, "We have taken the trouble to be honest and we have lost them honestly and not lost them unfairly." I don't know, in this situation when you talk about elections, what would Mr. Slavcho Atanasov say, who in Plovdiv had serious complaints about this thing. I don't know how he's gonna vote... [[GERB lines.]] Yes, I am very interested, Mr. Atanasov, how are you going to deal with the topic of engine voting when you have suffered precisely from these manipulations that we are talking about right now? So everything, whatever we say today, is clearly aware that you are once again lying to the Bulgarian citizens, once again you want to tell them: "You are unnecessary. We have an organized command here that will come out in order and vote. Even so, you stay home, we don't care. We will lose the elections and blame this on BSP, for example, because from the stand manipulates people and tells them that we need a machine vote. No, gentlemen. This is your only chance to get out of the situation and lose honestly the choices that you will lose three times next year. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In order to alternate the parliamentary groups, Mr. Bojankov, I will give the floor to Mr. Angelov. Then there's you. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of the two bills that have been tabled and examined today, I can say the following. According to the first Bill, which is from GERB and the Patriots, which is signed by them, here aims to avoid two moments, which are problems in the elections. One moment is to avoid the phenomenon of the "15/15" that happens to all parties. By the way, the Patriots have never happened to us, we have not been harmed by it, but there are others who have been wronged. It is important for us that the number of parties really be dropped. It is high time for Bulgarian citizens not to vote for numbers but to vote for certain political entities or certain candidates. Here I heard an argument on the part of the DPS that, you see, the numbers had to stay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's really stop this process in Bulgaria for people to vote for numbers. It is enough for people to be intelligent when they want to go to make their choice to vote for a certain number. From this point of view, we are importers of this bill. The other problem concerns the activities of the CEC, which have ruled out that there is a problem with machine voting, there is also a problem with electronic voting because they cannot guarantee the delivery to each section, as they cannot guarantee the security of both the vote and the electronic vote. This CEC was created the 42nd National Assembly, dominated by BSP and DPS. This CEC is dominated by these parties. We take their opinion into account. If the BSP disagrees with the opinion of the CEC, which I think may be the most competent authority in Bulgaria, who is familiar with the electoral process and sees what the problems are, then remove your confidence from your representatives there. Here, Mrs. Ninova can come out and say: "From now on in this CEC, we do not have any representatives that we have proposed because we disagree with their opinion. That's the way it is. The people you proposed, we have complied with their opinion to ensure the security of the vote. Here was an example with Mr. Petrov and Mr. Dimitrov how they would have different rights. Today it is important for us that Mr. Petrov and Mr. Dimitrov, when they vote, have a secret of vote and their vote not be manipulated and falsified. When you see the engine room and the electronic vote, the human factor will be bypassed. It's a complete lie! The human factor is both engine and electronic voting. Who's processing the data? Who makes the software? Who controls the software? People again. So what you're saying about the human factor will not be surrounded. Yes, you do. Then the human factor will have an even greater role to play in manipulating the vote. There is no country in the world, including the world powers that are currently able to guarantee electronic voting or machine voting at 100% and to defend the vote of the people. It's the truth! Why should we deceive people, why should we say things that we all know? On the other bill, which concerns the so-called video surveillance in the sections....of course there are both pros and cons. I'll give you some examples of the video surveillance in the sections. What can be achieved by video surveillance in the sections? He stands each party's representative in front of the computer and starts to see which voter enters the given section to vote and who has not voted to send people and go to vote. And how will video surveillance guarantee the security of the vote of those people who vote when they draw their personal documents and fill out the lists? Where will these cameras be placed? Won't you see who people vote for? If video cameras are to be placed, let's finally, when the election process is completed in a section, the countdown should be recorded how they count, not who goes to vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Because it is clear to me what will happen in sections that are in the municipality of DPS there simply the entire municipal administration will be on the computers to see who has gone out to vote and who has not gone out to vote will be sent out to take it out. Is that the point? So when we talk about the electoral process, when we want to make things more regular and more objective and people's vote to really be protected, let's think about how we can protect the Bulgarian voters outside the sections, because the huge manipulation with the tied vote, with the bought vote being done outside the polls and that is the truth. I don't see any party concerned about what's going on outside the polling section. We all talk inside the sections where each of us has advocates, observers, members of committees and each of us sees the process being carried out inside. Let us think carefully between the two readings about how to improve and do so that people have an honest and objective vote, rather than a vote to be manipulated, which is under pressure and who, you see, has more rights in terms of being able to vote electronically or machinely. The important thing is to vote honestly and secretly. That's the most important thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Anyone for a line? First line to Mr. Angelov's speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u48	Thank you. Dear colleague Angelov, before you speak it is good to read better the proposals. In terms of video voting, it is a matter of having one after the election day is over, dear Mr. Angelov, when counting the ballots and writing the protocols, because there are the biggest manipulations. We have had cases determined in the court where votes given more about BSP are written in the protocol in the name of GERB [[noise, lines]] There are such cases in the Ruzhintsi case, local elections. It's in court records. That's what we're talking about. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Yeah, cancel the election, cash out the election. With regard to our representatives in the CEC. They are, dear Mr. Angelov, only six out of twenty. Only six out of twenty! And as zealously as you are here, you are supposed to defend justice, transparency, in the same way your colleagues, who are former partners of GERB from the Reforming Block, were defending the machine electronic remote voting. Now they're gone. Make an account of where you'll be soon. Thank you. [[Applause "BSP for Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line please, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Angelov, I do not agree with the proposal that you are defending so zealously, namely with the dropping of the ballot numbers. Another method, another methodology could be proposed and introduced, but especially what you are proposing will make the election process difficult. I give you one example right away if the so-called "United Patriarchs" you are in 37th place from 50 parties, each of your voters, by the time they reach you, will spend a lot of time finding the relevant position where you are written. If you so much want to accept the ballots to be dropped, suggest that it be alphabetically, for example. Why shouldn't it be like this? Why should it be drawn and stirred? Purely technologically, more voting time will be wasted and the electoral process will be delayed, and instead of easing it, we will make it difficult. And as for the engine vote, you're wrong. I disagree. This removes the purely human factor. Very often, in the sectional election committees, there are disputes, some punic wars, whether the mark has come out of the corresponding square, the so-called "X" or "Hachka" or whether it is two millimeters, three millimeters, is that not acceptable? All this will be avoided if it is introduced by the engine vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u51	Thank you. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will be brief. First, Mr. Angelov, my line to you consists in this: You said that the idea was to facilitate the election process by removing the numbering. We know very well that a lot of polling stations have some people coming in, and by giving them some ambulances, and by putting them on these links on the integral newsletter... whether there's a number or no number, the specific person who walks with the lines there doesn't care about the voter. Secondly, you have just confirmed from this tribune the doubt of the citizens regarding the fact that you said: there is also a human factor in machines. Does this mean that there is a human factor in all the electronic registers in the country and you doubt it because there are reasons why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. A hole, Mr. Angelov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chenchev, of course, that when there is a human factor, there is always doubt and it is worldwide, not only in Bulgaria, especially in today's world, where you know that technologies are very developed. There are people who, if they decide, in 24 hours can block all systems in the world. So when playing the human factor, it's natural that there can be manipulations. I will remind you of something else, because here it was about how the elections would be manipulated to win certain parties or parties. By this logic in the presidential election, there wasn't so much machine voting or electronic voting, and you won your candidate, so you faked the election then? By your logic, you claim that since there is no electronic and entirely machine voting in each section, you should have faked the presidential election?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The other to Mr. Popov, who hastened to bury us. Mr. Popov, we've been buried by IMRO for 125 years, but those who buried us are gone. So take your time burying us. Take your time burying us! All those who have done exercises on IMRO's back are gone. Careful with the findings and threats. Careful! We, unlike you, serve not one king today, but the next day another, as you do. About the numbers in the ballots. Mr. Baychev, your line could be more alphabetical. They may also be alphabetically parties and coalitions, but you then, all parties will want to name each other a coalition in the CEC to start with the letter For example, you can be baptized..... why I voted for BSP..................... [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. We move on to the next speeches. Mr. Bojankov, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, the way the debate is going is symptomatic of Bulgarian democracy. The fact is that there is only one opinion to the Bill, and the electoral process is defining democracy in the state. It is a matter of desire to introduce the engine vote. The question is, is there such a desire, because you have done nothing for so many years. Even in the vote on the budget, you did not vote on the necessary funds, which shows that you never intended to introduce it. Reading the motives of the Bill, you say: the small number of voters can create a risk to the secret. With mobile section you may need restarting. He had to accompany a technical person. It's hard to logically secure a machine vote. Pages, pages, and thousands of sentences justify how it can't happen. I remind you when there is interest when there is a lobby and when there is a desire, how, for example, is the Law on concessions adopted? The Legal Committee is working late at night to one, to two, to three at night...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u57	Please extend the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u58	Please extend the group's time. When there is an incentive, when there is a desire, there is always a way, and when there is no desire, there is an excuse. Colleagues, what did you say when you saw the Trade Register? Then you took a walk along the Grafa and came to work, decided that it is probably best not to touch anything in the interests of Bulgaria. One such thesis may deserve respect, but I worry that the other option is true and it is the scarier one, and the scarier one is that of Joseph Stalin, who says: "It is not important how voters vote, but who counts the votes." [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, my speech is provoked by Mr. Angelov, who speaks of the human factor. Indeed, when there is software, it is natural that there may be interference, but, Mr. Angelov, there is a solution to this as well. I've been an observer in an election in a country where mechanical machines were voted out. These are some cash registers where there's no electronics and you can't attack the software because there isn't. You go to the section, show your I.D., and you go to a little front. Inside the mechanical machine there are codes for which he does not know GERB-01, BSP-02. You put your vote in the memory of the machine, a small receipt comes out, which says: "GERB-01". It goes into the urn, and that's how the vote happens. At 19.00 the total is pressed and the tabulogram is released, where the results are: GERB 2000, BSP 1000, DPS 300 and so on. The urn opens. Sort the ballots and compare them to the tabulogram itself. There's not a single voice deviation. There are no bogus ballots on whether it's crossed out or if it's out of the box. It is also made by ballots, because if 40 parties are involved, you have to print as many as the million voters are. These machines are stored, and they're not very expensive to buy 12 400. There are solutions, as long as there's a good desire. We won't find anything new here. The hot water or the wheel. It is a matter of desire, but in this vote there cannot be a single vote, there can be no forgery, but the very role of the sectional committees where the forgery is. They have only registration functions and nothing more. The tabulogram is at 1900, the ballots are going to count. It's simple, but it's a matter of good faith to accept that way. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Please! There's gonna be a complete procedure in lines and in dodges. Stay calm! Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not be exhaustive in commenting on everything that has been said in the debate so far, because much of the allegations were neither meaningful nor justified nor based on real knowledge of the electoral process. Of course, the opposition in this debate decided to actively use suggestion, and again on the basis of upcoming manipulations. It is difficult to list all mutually contradictory and exclusionable ones that have been developed by fellow lawyers from BSP, but I will ask the following: if there are any risks in these two types of votes, why reduce their intensity to increase and not as logically, normally, proportionate to reducing these risks? I don't know how you can see in these two ways and in these solutions that we offer you, a specific design?! Again, I stress that these changes arise as an initiative by the central electoral body, in which, honourable Members, an advantage, a majority have the members designated by your formation in 2014, elected for the first time as permanent electoral administration, loudly proclaimed by your then MP and Vice-President of the National Assembly at the forty-second National Assembly, Mrs. Maya Manolova. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wonder why the machine voting video, which was available on the Internet with Mrs. Maya Manolova's open lesson on how to vote machine in the village of Shishkovtsi, where she and the mayor are both saying:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm wondering. However, there are records of the description, but the video has been deleted. And I wonder why? The colleague Manolova is generally proud of every achievement. Now he's threatening these changes to go to the Constitutional Court. [[Heckling]] But, look, let's go to the Constitutional Court, although they are already at stake, as it was done in 2014. I repeat, I also said it at the presentation: there is a lot of evidence from the experiments and from the application of machine voting that identify shortcomings which, colleagues, are not the result of machines. Those who are the problem of machines, we leave them aside. We're talking about the human factor. We're talking about how the member of the sectional election committee either loses his memory or hides the receipts from the machine. Because, colleagues, in the engine vote we have double counting and double coverage of the vote, we have electronic coverage, and mandatory, as Maya Manolova has done in the only legitimate document on which the results are taken into account, in the protocol of the selection election commission. And I will not be tired of saying that from Maya Manolova's working group, whichever methods we apply, if we cannot ensure the truthfulness of the minutes of the vote held in the sectary election committee, if we do not ensure its judicial protection, whatever means they may be, they will not receive 100% full and absolute trust. [[Noise and lines.]] So, counting in this way, as you say, it was written down by the colleague Popov said it, the data changed at a later point in the protocol, what difference does it make whether by machines or by ballots it was voted on? But it matters, because it's a technologically more modern way. Yeah, it's not classic, yeah, it's rejected, and this method is rejected within the framework of comparative and legal research and is already being practiced quite locally. I think only one of the states in the United States has, but not in final elections, and in preliminary party elections there was an electronic vote. But this mantra and this fashion introduced to us Maya Manolova. Yeah, we're following it, and we're going to increase that number. I am also immediately saying that regarding the question of colleague Zarkov, no one knew how many sections and which sections. Well, colleague Zarkov, propose. We have said: no less than a thousand, because this is the height we follow with the increase so far. Say three thousand, five thousand, let's discuss it. If this method of reference does not suit you, then offer another........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But aside from criticizing and hanging in studios, I'm sure you once again have no reasonable suggestions you will not make. I also disagree with your hint of inequality. You were going to have two types of options - machine and paper voting, I wasn't going to have both. Yes, but I have the possibility, legally valid, recognised by the Constitution, respected by the law and by the relevant committees in its order and I have exercised my will. What's the difference? What is the specific ticklishness that the voter feels to push a machine or to draw the newsletter? All here talk of credibility is, in my opinion, deeply questionable and I will refer: ask your representatives at the Central Election Commission. By the way, I was surprised, too, when a year and a half, even two before that moment, started not the mosque, but the talking by colleagues from the CEC, about the difficulties that would arise. They started showing up. There was a statement which was read and which was read by a speaker, colleagues, if you do not understand, I will explain. One speaker read the speech in question duly. This statement, fellow Members, I have listened to it in the last parliament. I do not want to open the question of the price of machines in this Parliament. I will say this: yes, the state has the opportunity to provide machines for all normal sections. The question is: what will be the price? The question is: is this worth it? The question is: who benefits from this? I am convinced that you have your own answer to this. And a lot of our colleagues here know the right answer. What is remarkable is that this technology link has become smart and beautiful, you have contacted some of the drives that, I admit, we continue to support because we have indeed promised and are consistent in this support. And I'll say again: if we were to think konjuncturally, if we were tempted to get a head start in the election, we would be using our votes now to have as quickly electronic remote voting as possible. Our support in voting outside Bulgaria is much greater than yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u63	It's not very certain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u64	It's a sure thing. Look at him. Look at the sectional election committees outside Bulgaria, see and see. But I believe that our position is not a conjunctural one, but is responsible because the deviation or unpreparedness of these methods can actually discredit the general election result. With regard to the Venice Commission, I remind you that December is the sixth month before the European elections. So we started this debate absolutely in time. We haven't written at the last minute a brand-new code, like the Maya Manolova Code we apply, and the CEC that belongs to Maya Manolova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For lines? First line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, dear colleague Kirilov! After this verbal mouse, I found out that you didn't actually support the engine vote. That's true. [[Heckling]] However, I will only remind you a year ago what you claimed. Danail Kirilov: GERB does not sabotage the engine vote, we have always supported it. And here's the comment: I do not see in any way a negative or sabotaging role of GERB. On the contrary, we have always supported these voting methods and this is our firm position. In this regard, we do not accept the CEC's accusations that the National Assembly had something to do, and something different from what has been done, that is, what has been adopted as legislation. In other words, the National Assembly must be legislate. We also believe that it was correct if the CEC wanted to rearrange something in the Law, that it had done so at the latest after the announcement of the results of the presidential elections. Mr. Kirilov, what has changed since your current position? Nothing at all! And then the CEC had its proposals, and now the CEC has the same proposals, only you're changing your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Zarkov for a second line. Here you go. The third line is the People's Representative Ercan Ebatin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kirilov! Several times they have repeated that these are CEC ideas and in principle you have a method of work in the Legal Commission, which I and my colleagues do not accept. "The Central Election Commission wants this and we do it, the mayors want that and we do it, COMPI wants a third and we do it! You have turned Parliament's Legal Commission into a rubber seal of the administration! It has to be the other way around! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the National Assembly! You tell the administration what to do, not the administration of us to tell us how to change the laws to make her comfortable! [[Noise and lines.]] What kind of logic is that?! [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] What does the CEC want? And what do the citizens want? [[Heckling]] And I'll tell you what is the specific ticklishness that the person feels by voting with a machine. The specific tickle is that he is sure that his voice will be correctly taken into account that the preferences he gives will be correctly taken into account. The specific tickle is to know that this voice makes sense because it will not be overwhelmed by fraudulent voices. This is the specific tickle, and you will soon understand it. [[Heckling]] Finally, concrete proposals: do not change the Law! Do it the way it's written in each section to have a machine. Those sections, which are specific because they're on ships, in prisons, we can think about them. But don't sell us any bullshit with any absolute fictitious criteria that will allow the CEC to determine in which section who and how will vote. And yes, there is a difference because me and all of you and the citizens outside have equal electoral rights, which means that if you or I have the right to choose between a machine and a newsletter, everyone has to have such a right or no one has an average! You're finally going to be the chair of the Legal Commission! [[(Noise and long applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u69	Here you go, Mr. Ebatine. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kirilov, in so far as the electoral rules are rules which legitimize a future power, they must be built in such a way that there is no doubt in the future power that will be chosen. Therefore, my proposal to you and to all political powers is: between first and second reading of the Law, to gather all of us and to clarify such rules, which should be adopted by consensus, so that there is no doubt about how a future power is chosen. The rhythm of these rules should be consistent with the time in which we live, not be in harmony with the fears of certain political parties, would not their political opponent present himself better or in some better light. We therefore have a responsibility as a political organisation and as a political force to really communicate better with each other, to build such electoral rules that do not raise any doubt in the Bulgarian citizen as to what legitimization in a future power it will give. This is my call to all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Mr. Kirilov, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u72	Madam President, by obligation I will duplicate, not willingly. Actually, I didn't hear anything essential that deserved an answer. The colleague Popov presented some mish-mash of statements that are vaguely addressed to specific elections. In fact, these statements were entirely in the context and I will again confirm that we support these methods.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u73	How do you support them?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u74	We support them, Mr. Popov! We support them! We also support the majority vote that you did not support. Why didn't you support him? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Did we bring you a bill on this? We've submitted you a bill for both majority voting and electronic remote voting. What were you gonna do? You were going to offer a mixed German system. So where's your proposal for the mixed German system? He's gone. Where? When? What choices?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u75	We'll offer it when we get the power.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u76	What choices? She's a complex system, but we know her well enough. If you cannot do so, we will provide you with a bill to submit it, but on your behalf, because we do not support this as a rule precisely because of trust. Mathematics will not lead to an increase in confidence, and therefore you aim deliberately to disstruction in trust. It's clear what you're doing! But we'll see about that. Here I will respond to my colleague Zarkov and we will see what the Bulgarian voter values after all........................................................................................ Let him have that choice. Until now, I have said the colleague Zarkov, but I will not comment on Mr. Zarkov's statements on what is the connection between the legislative process with the public problems and their solution and I do not want him to interpret me in any wrong and impressive way that he wanted, that he did not want. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I explained it to you, I told you the reports, I told you the analyses, I told you about the meetings that were shorthanded and there was a representative of yours, and why you now want me to embarrass my colleague Baichev, who spoke completely positively at all the meetings in the CEC on this issue and we were in agreement with him. Why should I hurt the boy in front of you? Because you're changing your mind because you're looking for a cheap conjuncture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u77	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u78	That's what you guys are doing! That's what you're doing, but we're still competing. Don't forget it. We're racing by your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u79	Finish your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u80	And I'll repeat again: by the Maya Manolova Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A statement has been made by Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, dear Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, there is no right to a final speaker. Don't think of it as your right to be the last, only for Mr. Tsvetanov is allowed. So anyone can speak when they give the floor. Dear colleagues, we have listened to the debate, all the groups have spoken and it has become clear that the masks have fallen, and it is high time to say it: I'm sorry, I don't know your position because you didn't say it, but the DPS and BSP made it clear. "Volja" and BSP: we want video surveillance in the sections after the election day is completed clearly. Other coworkers are never known. Now let's see why we're doing this debate. Here we heard arguments from a thousand places about how it could not be done, how there was a human factor, how money was expensive. Tell me, fellow Members, do you want a machine vote or don't you want one? The law is clearly written: 12 000 sections "12 000 machines." Why do you want 1,000 machines? If it's not fair to vote machine, say zero machines. Why do you want a thousand? Why do you want there to be more than 300, less than 300? That's not fair, is it? It is high time for someone to come out and say honestly from this tribune by GERB, do you want a machine vote, or do you not want? If you want, we are going in the direction of compliance with the law 12 000 sections for 12 000 machines, every Bulgarian citizen to exercise his right. If there's a question of honesty, you're convinced that this is not right, and we're calling off the engine vote. Well, you don't say that. Danail Kirilov says: "If we wanted to manipulate the elections, we would introduce the electronic remote vote. " You suggested it a few months ago, and does that mean you want to manipulate the election?! Does that mean something? Why did you suggest that? Now here you're talking about majority vote, some other stuff, and now the topic is: engine vote. Please, one of GERB's factors, from the ruling party to come out and say: is it for the engine vote, or is it against? Colleagues, I also said during the budget: GERB cannot make elections without falsifying, GERB cannot make elections with machine and independent, but can only do with ballots, only with protocols, only with bags, which can then be distributed. Make honest choices so that you can, when you win, or when you lose, there's no harm in losing in an honest way, don't throw me the line: How were the presidential elections? We claim that all elections will be more honest...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u83	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u84	...if an engine vote is introduced. From then on, your interpretations are presidential, non-presidential, and the Code was of Maya Manolova. Well, this code has been adopted for four years. Why didn't you take it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u85	Finish your thesis, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u86	You've had a ruling majority for four years. Why didn't you change it, and now you're making excuses for Maya Manolova and the six people in the CEC from BSP? Well, change those six people, but you have 16, not 6. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to Mr. Svilensky's statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, the concerns of colleagues on the left side have been confirmed for the upcoming elections. From now on they have started to open up the topic of how they will lose the elections and seek excuses, and that is what we are learning again from the last speeches. Lose the election fair and square! You haven't won an election since 2009. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Should I count? When? Did you win them in 2013? No, you weren't the first political force back then. What about the previous local elections? My fellow Members, I understand you're looking for excuses, but this is your problem. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any lines to Mr. Lazarov? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u90	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, there has been some dispute here over a last statement. If that's the last thing I want to do, I want to apologize because I didn't want it to be the last, and I just wanted to say something. Colleagues, when we speak from this stand on the Election Code, it's like we're really opening up Pandora's box. What comes out of it? Each time, for more than two decades, the same thing comes out. The lack of trust of the Bulgarian citizens in the electoral process. This is a fact that we all acknowledge: and those who are here and those who are outside the Parliament................. and observers, and so on. The second thing that makes sense is that any amendment to the Election Code complicates the rules, makes it more difficult to have access to voting and more difficult to exercise the right to vote. Who's doing it with what motives, I don't want to go into this analysis now, because it's going to get very party-like, and we have to adopt such rules as to restore trust in the electoral process. It is generally the opinion that confidence in the electoral process breaks somewhere around the sectional election committees, around their actions, around the opaqueness that is happening there, around the preparation of the minutes, and several percent are mistaken according to the electoral authority's data, and what happens after the elections, which we all saw not once and not after a single election. Now we as legislators, if we are honest in front of people and ourselves, what should we do? We must try to correct the mistakes that have been made so far and without party biases. Because here, we hear all kinds of oaths about how one would win, how it was fair, how the other and so on. Let's minimize the possibility of error, let's not say forgery, where they happen most often. Where do they happen most often? In the section polling committees, 64% or 67% of the protocols are wrong. This is beyond any statistical error rate. Obviously, this is about very complex procedures, manipulations, doubts about transparency and honesty. What are you suggesting so that this doesn't happen? Two things in total. One is a video surveillance when the process is completed, so that every citizen can access the Internet and see in his section how his voice counts. The second, which is proposed, which is more important, is what is called the Master's Voice. I very much disagree with this terminology because, as BSP parliamentary group colleague said here, there are no mechanical machines anymore, there was somewhere. It's going to be electronic again, and the other electronic thing we call......... is remote. I will say the opinion of our parliamentary group by both techniques, by both methods. The so-called "Machino" which I will call it, and the other is remote, will restore confidence because it will minimize the process of drawing up, counting, drawing up protocols, participation of the sectional election committees in this process. Only, in order for this to happen, there must be a few things. First of all, no paper and no pen. If there's a mixed vote, a mixed method in the sectional committees, we don't do anything, we just give some money for machines and who likes it. If it's going to be machine, as is known, it's going to be 100% machine. If so, be in all sections, without those that colleagues talked about in hospitals, ships, prisons, those that are portable, and so on, and for everyone else there is no reason not to be. The first myth: it will be expensive.. absolutely false. Do not waste your time on the Legal Committee, we have set a clear enough example, it is neither expensive nor complicated. There's no need to hire some millions of machines from abroad, because we don't rent anything but boxes. The software is done here, it has to be separate for each type of vote. You know why, I don't need to clarify, and one touchscreen screen is a peripheral device, one hard drive is worth nothing on the market anymore, especially if it's bought wholesale. Whether he can do it for service, the state firm can, we from DPS are firm, we have confidence in this company. It has built a very high capacity over the years, regardless of who has managed it, and there are control mechanisms for the software they will develop. It won't cost much. So it's a myth. Whether it will be 10, 15 or 20 thousand electronic devices in question and not machines, it does not matter in terms of fiction, in terms of financial security. But so we will achieve another result - colleagues, there will be no invalid ballots, there will be no mistakes. If you follow... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Can I...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u91	Please let the speaker express his thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u92	You'll have the opportunity for a douche bag. Come, tell me how there will be. Even if there is, they'll be minimalized. If you follow the complexity of the 1990 rules, from the removal of the color ballots, it results in only one result - increasing the invalid ballots! That is, we here in this Chamber, with the rules we propose, make some Bulgarian citizens go to exercise their right to vote, to be politically responsible to the state, to the people, to our children and not to respect their voice! So, what's this responsibility of ours?! We need to minimize these possibilities. That's one way to do it. Therefore, the DPS clearly, no doubt, we are about it being 100% machine, with these exceptions in the sections, and inside the sections there is no mixed About the remote. Many populism, colleagues, there and many interests that are not at all protected in terms of protecting the entire process. I will give you just one example by serving what they are attacking from the outside, especially the so-called right hand: to have an electronic vote, because, see, when payment transactions are protected, how will the electoral process not be protected?! I'll give you an example. Okay, we're gonna find effective protection not to have a hacker attack. How, however, and who will guarantee who is standing across the street in Chicago, London or Istanbul behind the IP address by which the relevant identification number is voted? Who? Is there anyone who can vouch for you? I'll give you an example. I'm taking out my credit card now, and I'm giving it to you, Mrs. Ninova, for example, and I'm giving you the code that's in the back. I give it to you voluntarily and you perform a payment transaction with my card. What prevents the same from happening to the election process? A few hundred thousand to give the number to someone and he behind an IP address to vote lightly and quietly. Come on, by doing some election manipulations, let's not make it easy for him, okay? To take the one who has decided to sell his voice, to go to the section is not easy, not so easy, because against this protection it will never be invented. Therefore, the highly developed countries with democracies, which have traditions like Germany, do not accept such a vote! We at the DPS are definitely against this. It doesn't matter if it's Chicago, London or Istanbul. Anyone who wants to vote will go to the section. End of story. Otherwise it's an unprotected vote, otherwise we don't know what's going on. Our call to conclude: to stop party biases, with demagogy and hypocrisy; to make the rules such as to restore confidence in the electoral process - first, second, to make it easier for Bulgarian citizens to vote, and third, to make sure that their result is accounted for, and not to have several hundred thousand invalid votes. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Honourable Members of Parliament, I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018. They voted 182 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 65. The motion is accepted. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Iskren Veselinov on 16 November 2018. Vote 186 MPs: 125 against 61 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a 30-minute break is to follow. Allow me to read you a message: a charity exhibition will be opened in the eastern couloir of the National Assembly with paintings of children from 143 schools of school. The exhibition is organized by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. The funds raised will be donated to children deprived of parental care. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u94	I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. Honourable Members, we begin by examining the third point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTIONS FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, BOEATRAPAS, TRANSPARENT INGREDIENTS AND PYROTECHIC ARTICLES. There are two bills of the National Representative Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs and the Council of Ministers. You have the floor, Mr. Nunev, to present the reports of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the two submitted bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u96	Honourable Members, please come into the Chamber quickly. We are voting on a procedural proposal. Please take your seats. I'll wait for you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tzipov to enter the room. Please continue, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u97	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 854-01-74, submitted by Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs on 9 October 2018 At its regular meeting on 21 November 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 854-01-74, submitted by Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs on 9 October 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Legal Activity Directorate. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Alexander Siddy. In his exhibition noted that according to art. 133 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles is granted the right to perform the repair of arms only to traders under the Commercial Law. The practice shows that existing non-profit legal entities, especially sports shooting clubs, cannot perform repair work. At the same time, they have weapons workshops and specialists who can carry out this activity. Non-profit associations which are entitled to produce explosives, weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles for the purposes of research, development or testing shall be granted the right to repair, and non-producers shall be deprived of that right which is illogical and discriminatory. The proposal of the Bill is to allow them repair work and not only traders under the Commercial Law, which will reduce their external service costs and increase the possibility of attracting additional funds. This will help the development of rifle sports in the Republic of Bulgaria. Opinions were received from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Youth and Sports supports the Bill in principle, but express the opinion that instead of the "legal persons" and sports federations who received a sports license under the Law on Physical Education and Sports and Sports Clubs, their members. They also propose the regulation for obtaining permission to store firearms and ammunition for them from sports federations and sports clubs in relevant gun sports that have been authorised. The Ministry of Interior takes the view that sports clubs can repair their own weapons, but the adoption of the proposal would allow non-profit legal entities to carry out commercial activities by providing arms repair services to third parties for payment. However, such a change will be contrary to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities in so far as the same is based on art. 3, para. 6 of the Law do not distribute profit. They propose that the provision be refined and that it regulates that persons who are not registered as traders cannot provide repair services for payment. The Ministry of Defense has no comments or suggestions. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. At its meeting on 21 November 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Internal Affairs Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate. Valentin Venkov Inspector in the KOS sector. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tzipov. In its presentation, the importer noted that the reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles (ZIDZOBVI) are related to the need to ensure compliance of the law with Directive 2013/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles, Directive 2014/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil purposes. Directives 2013/29/EU and 2014/28/EU have been transposed into the Bulgarian legislation by two regulations of the Ministry of Economy, adopted on the basis of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products, but the necessary adjustment of the Zombie has not been carried out, which leads to contradictions in the legislation. The Directives introduce additional requirements regarding the marking of explosives for civil purposes and pyrotechnic articles, regulate the conduct of conformity assessment procedures with a view to ensuring a high level of protection of public interests, health and consumer safety. The categorisation of pyrotechnic articles is changed, and now the categories for fireworks, i.e. the ones envisaged, i.e. the ones for the fireworks, i.e. the ones for the fireworks, i.e. the ones for the fireworks, i.e. the ones for the fireworks, the ones for the 2 and the 2 and the 2 and the 3 and the 4 and the 4 and the 2 and 3 are replaced by the ones for the F1 and the F2 and the F2 and the F3 respectively. The Law also introduces the provisions of Directive 2017/853/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477 on control of the acquisition and possession of arms. In accordance with the Directive, firearms categories are amended and category D is deleted. The concept of "Salutary and Power Weapons" is introduced, the notion of "preliminary and signal weapons" is replaced by the current concept of "Salutary and Signal Weapons" and the definition of a powerful component of firearms is amended, as well as the definition of "Identification Data of Firearms." The time limits for storing the data in the single automated register for the activities under this law, supported by the Ministry of Interior, have also been changed. A ban is introduced on the acquisition, wear and use of large capacity fillers. Additional requirements for persons engaged in sporting firearms activities are also provided for, and additional property penalties and fines are provided. It is envisaged that, in the absence of the Head of the Ministry of Interior of the Interior, the relevant authorisations for the acquisition of explosives, weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles will be issued by its designated alternate. It is also envisaged that all waste gunpowder, explosives, empty packaging, black and non-ferrous metals which can be obtained as a result of the utilisation of ammunition of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as any proceeds from the sale of waste gunpowder, explosives, empty packaging, black and non-ferrous metals obtained as a result of the utilisation of ammunition, will be considered to be accounted for in the price of the service provided, based on the agreement for the utilization. The adoption of the bill amending and supplementing the BIPs does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. The bill provides for the introduction of European legislation for which an analysis of compliance with European Union law has been drawn up. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 9 votes for the Council and 7 votes for the Council of Ministers to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on arms, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. The two reports of the Commission on Children, Youth and the dispute "You have the floor to present, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe The Commission on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting held on 24 October 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 854-01-74, submitted by Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs on 9 October 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Yana Ivanova, Director of Legal and Normal Information Service at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Valentin Venkov, Inspector at the Directorate General of National Police and Mrs. Eva Veneva, Chief Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities of the Ministry of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Yordan Yordanov, who pointed out that the main purpose of the proposed amendments is to provide legal opportunity for non-profit legal entities registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities to carry out repair activities of weapons and ammunition under art. 132 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The extension of the scope of the persons who have acquired the right to perform repair activities under art. 133, enables licensed under the Law on Physical Education and Sports sports organisations to carry out repair activities of weapons and ammunition related to the type of sport they exercise. The importer stressed that the proposed amendment, on the one hand, would restore the legal ability of sports organisations to carry out this repair activity, which had previously undergone amendments to the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, and, on the other hand, to reduce difficulties, as well as the costs of sports clubs in connection with the use of external services. Opinions were received in the Commission on the draft Law by the Ministry of Youth and Sports and by the Ministry of Interior. The opinion of the Ministry of Youth and Sports expresses principle support for the proposed changes by proposing a clarification of the texts, as well as a supplement that provides a legal opportunity for sports organizations to acquire the right to organize warehouses for weapons and ammunition for them under art. 80. During the discussion, representatives of the Ministry of Interior supported in principle what the Ministry of Youth and Sports proposed, but expressed disagreement about the extension of the scope of the persons who acquired the right to organize storage warehouses under art. 80. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the votes held by the National Assembly on 19th, without the objection and the abstention, the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and Exhibitions, No 854-01-74, submitted by Alexander Siddy and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. ♪ I can't believe The Commission on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting on 21 November 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. The first vote. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activity Department, Mr. Valentin Venkov, Inspector General of the Directorate of National Police, Mr. Ivan Burzilov from the Bulgarian T-Class Federation and Mr. Zhivko Antonov from the Bulgarian Dynamic Shooting Federation. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, who pointed out that the main purpose of the proposed amendments is to achieve compliance with the provisions of Directive 2013/29/EU and Directive 2014/28/EU, as well as to eliminate the found contradictions in Bulgarian legislation. Amendments are provided for regarding the requirements for the legal making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles and explosives for civil purposes. The markings of the categories of fireworks have been changed. The Law also introduces the provisions of Directive 2017/853/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477 on control of the acquisition and possession of arms. The time limits for storage of the data in the Single Automated Register have been changed. The categories of firearms are amended by removing category D. A ban is introduced on the acquisition, wear and use of high capacity fillers, as well as additional requirements for persons engaged in sporting activities. The conditions for use of hunting weapons are revised by persons visiting the Republic of Bulgaria for hunting tourism. The control of the acquisition of firearms for sports purposes, automatic firearms and weapons with high ammunition capacity in the magazine shall be improved. The importer stressed that the annulment of § 12 and § 13 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles avoid duplication with provisions of the regulations of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. The Commission received opinions on the draft Law from the Bulgarian T-Class Federation and the Armenian Sports Club. Their representatives express principled support for the proposed changes by proposing a clarification of the texts on the requirements for number of trainings, number of competitions and fired ammunition for athletes practicing rifle sports. Members of the National Assembly Vesela Lecheva and Slavcho Atanasov took part in the discussion. Mr. Atanasov informed the members of the Commission that given the specifics of the bill, the way of impact and its outcome, it is imperative to establish a working group with the participation of sports federations to prepare the necessary amendments, amendments and additions between first and second readings. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 15-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. The first vote shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The next report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You have the floor to present the report, dear Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable President, honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 14 November 2018, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the committee took part: Krasimir Tzipov "Deputy Minister of Interior," and from the Executive Forest Agency Eng. Yulian Rusev "Director of the Department of Forestry and Forest Protection" eng. Nikolay Pironkov, Acting Director of the Department of Love and Fatme Demirova. The bill in the part of the competence of the Committee on Agriculture and Food was presented by Julian Rusev. It is possible that persons who manage the game and are authorised to store hunting weapons and ammunition for it under certain conditions to be able to provide it for hunting purposes to persons hunting under organised hunting tourism. Officials with control functions in protected areas and employees with control functions in the protection of forests and game in the Executive Agency for Forests and its structures, in state forest enterprises and their departments, in educational and experienced forestry farms and in hunting associations shall be given the opportunity to store their professional firearms and ammunition at a permanent address. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs, they described as an irrational majority of the changes. They gave an example of the introduction of an authorisation regime for gas weapons and weapons used in reconstructions. They strongly objected to the ban on the acquisition, storage, carrying and use of automatic firearms modified to semi-automatic weapons, as it would affect a huge number of hunters holding such weapons. In conclusion, they argued that they were against the adoption of the Bill. In relation to the questions made, Deputy Minister Tzipov explained that the introduction of the ban was the result of the transposition of the European requirements on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons that our country should have already introduced. From the parliamentary group of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" the need to regulate the order by which weapons are provided to persons hunting under organised hunting tourism. At the same time, they assessed as too restrictive changes related to the order to acquire, store, carry and use weapons. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) agreed with the arguments presented and said they would refrain from supporting the bill, but between the first and second votes they will make proposals to refine some of the texts. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes.......................... 3 votes against............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. The Defense Committee report? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. At a meeting held on 15 November 2018, the Defence Committee examined on the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. In the meeting of the Ministry of Interior took part: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, Angel Dimitrov Head, and Valentin Venkov Inspector in the COS sector of the Directorate General of the National Police and Rositsa Grudeva Director, and Eva Veneva Chief Jurissult in the Department of Legal and Normal Activities. From the Ministry of Defence participated: Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Clementina Deneva, Director of Legal and Normal Activities and Colonel Iliya Murhov from the Department of Logistics. The Chairman of the Defence Committee Konstantin Popov pointed out that the adoption of the Bill aims to achieve compliance and to introduce provisions of directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov. The bill provides for the introduction of European legislation. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It improves control of activities with a higher degree of risk in the acquisition of sporting firearms, automatic firearms with a high ammunition capacity in the magazine. The adoption of the Bill does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. The Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov drew attention to the proposed addition in art. 151, which will reduce the requirement to return to the military formations of waste products in the utilization of the ammunition of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Appendix will achieve a significant reduction in the risks of incidents. In the subsequent discussion, all Members of the National Assembly expressed support for the proposed by the Ministry of Defence supplement to art. 151. People's representative Kolyo Milev asked for clarification on the restrictions with semi-automatic weapons, the storage of hunting weapons and the possibility of foreign citizens hunting in Bulgaria, pointing out that he would abstain from the first vote. People's representative Milen Mihov shared concerns that the bill could lead to financial costs and administrative complications due to the change of regime of a small group of weapons. It does not share that restrictions should be increased in terms of hunting, sports and, above all, historical weapons. Noticed that the provisions concern a large part of the companies and organisations involved in reconstruction and historical reconstruction of arms. At the request of Mr. Mihov, their opinions on the bill presented Zdravko Iliev from the Club for Military Historical Reconstructions. The guests explained that they missed the period of public discussion of the Bill and sent letters to the institutions. National Representative Valentin Radev welcomed the proposed changes and the work carried out by the Ministry of Interior on the preparation of the bill. He pointed out that the increased requirements in European legislation take into account the need to counter terrorism and called on the Bill to be supported at first reading. He stressed that Bulgaria should not be distinguished from other European countries, that historical weapons should be related to the owner and be safe. People's representative Simeon Simeonov recommended to carefully examine the texts regarding hunters and weapons storage. He will refrain from voting first until the details are specified. People's representative Plamen Manushev expressed his opinion that there is a misunderstanding with regard to the hunters because the restriction does not concern the manufactured semiautomatic weapon, as well as the already processed by automatic. In response to the questions asked, Deputy Minister Tzipov pointed out that the bill provides a clear definition of semi-automatic weapons. Explain that the changes concern automatic weapons, which has been converted into semiautomatic weapons. It is even allowed to continue the use of such a weapon for which an authorisation has already been granted. Notes that the Bill has been published for public consultation for more than three months. The Ministry of Interior is ready to discuss any opinion and to submit a proposal for fixes of texts. He proposed to hold a meeting in the COS sector and with representatives of the Club for Military History Reconstructions. The head of the COS sector Angel Dimitrov added that the requirements of the Law are respected for conservation in hunting. There is no obstacle for foreigners to hunt, including using weapons from the hunting farm, but must be accompanied by a hunting guard. Reconstructions and historical reconstructions may continue to be carried out in order to protect the health and security of citizens. Currently in Bulgaria there are many clubs dealing with historical weapons and the proposed texts in the Bill account for their interests. It is important that, under the requirements of the European Directives, each weapon is connected to its owner and has an assurance of its technical suitability. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov pointed out that the proposed changes are obviously important in view of the current risks and called on the Bill to be supported at first reading and, in the course of the proposals between first and second reading, to correct the texts. Underline the meaning of the Appendix in art. 151 for the process of utilization. In the subsequent vote with 8 votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. That was the last report. Motives, anyone want to introduce us? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now the existing provision of art. 133, para. 1 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles gives only traders under the Commercial Law the right to carry out repair activities of weapons. However, in legal peace there are also numerous non-profit legal entities, most often sports shooting clubs, which have the physical and technical potential to carry out repair activities of arms, and in the most common case it is about shooting units intended for sport purposes. Until 14 December 2012, there was a text in art. 71, para. 1 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Act on Control of Explosive Substances, Firearms and Munitions, which was repealed by Decree No 318 of the Council of Ministers of 12 December 2012, according to which repair activities under art. 70 may carry out legal persons and traders authorised by the Director of DGBOP or an official authorised by him or by the Head of Regional Management at the location of the workshops, or the department of responsibility and social activities. Following the annulment of the Rules of Application of the Law, the subsequent amendments to the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles were omitted to reproduce the text of the repealed Rules and thus for 4 years the legal persons who are not traders under the Commercial Law have been deprived of the previously existing right to carry out the repair of arms. Taking this activity makes it difficult for clubs to export weapons from the storage facilities and look for other places to repair, which is in fact extremely difficult, given the transportation authorisation. The clubs have weapons workshops and masters for repairing hand-carved weapons, whose potential cannot be used and ambiguity. Non-profit associations which acquire the right to produce explosives, weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnic articles for the purposes of research, development or testing shall have the right to repair and other non-producers shall be deprived of that right which is illogical and discriminatory. By granting the right to non-profit legal entities to carry out repair activities of arms, on the one hand, their cost of paying these external services will be reduced at the moment, and, on the other hand, they will be given the opportunity to attract additional funds. Thus, in both cases, the development of rifle sports in the Republic of Bulgaria will be supported. In talks with colleagues, we have agreed that a correction of this text could actually be made. I suppose that if the proposed bill is supported, in the working group between first and second readings we will achieve the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor in relation to this amendment, as I was the first person in the Agricultural Commission to ask questions to the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Tzipov. Unfortunately, he was only able to argue with the directive, without any clarification, and this actually led the entire group that we are in the Agricultural Commission to vote against this bill. There are signals from citizens, federations and associations. Four are the main problems in this bill. The first is the hunters', that is, the ban on the use of semi-automatic hunting rifles or a separate part of them, is written in the Law. The other problem is sports clubs. The third problem is Tradition and other clubs that are involved in reenactment of historical events. The fourth, non-essential, these are the gas weapons. To start first from gas weapons, as the directive does not require the possibility of processing gas weapons to be made into bullet-guns. However, this cannot happen in much of these weapons, as most of them, 90% for example, have a nickel alloy that would explode and damage the one that shoots a bullet through it. The only gas weapons that can actually replicate a bullet are metal weapons, i.e. iron weapons, which are usually Russian and are already absent in much of the market. The bigger problem, of course, is the hunting rifles, the semiautomatic ones. Thus written in the Law gives us one doubt and many people signaled us, including the Bulgarian hunting and fishing union, that this thing will affect a huge mass of people. Of the 160 000 hunters in Bulgaria about 100 use carbines. Of these 160 000 Bulgarian hunters around 40 to 60 000 have semi-automatic carbines and such a withdrawal of their property would have serious consequences for both us and them. With colleagues Milen Mihov from IMRO and Alexander Ivanov from GERB, we made a round table in connection with this law, which was attended by 25 different organizations who expressed their concerns about the texts so written, including, again, I say, the Bulgarian Union of Hunters and Fishermen. [[Noise and lines.]] Here is the moment to thank the Ministry of Interior, who have done their best and sent a person from the COS Office, from the Directorate General of National Police, who, in a debate with all the representatives of these associations, eventually came to a compromise that a working group will be made between first and second readings. In the words of the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Tsvetanov in it will clear the controversial texts and accordingly the bill will be brought into such a model as not to worry either hunters or sports actors or people involved in reconstructions. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are again looking at proposals to amend the Munition Act, which is not the only one, is not the last amendment we have seen in recent times. The proposed amendment at least, which was tabled by the Council of Ministers, is under the assumption that this is being done in order to adopt a European directive. Of course, in the texts that should be voted and adopted, there are also a lot of useful proposals that concern the work of sports clubs and the way to repair weapons and so on. However, a number of controversial elements have also emerged in the texts so proposed, which have been signalled by various thought organizations. I'm talking about those who do gun repairs, those who reenact, those who hunt, use hunting weapons. Of course, they have extremely serious reasons. I must point out that over the years that I have been involved, and what these people have done as a remark, is that our legislation does not fully take into account the three components in relation to the weapon. I'm talking about the right to acquire and store, the right to wear, the right to use and so on. It should be taken into account in the tracts of these concepts and various restrictions that we have from both internal and international legislation. I call for the promise that has been made at a meeting of the Internal Commission by the Ministry of Interior and the President of the Internal Commission to change these controversial texts, especially concerning the so-called halosic ammunition. For example, the concept of firing blank ammunition is written, provided that blank ammunition is not fired, i.e. it is used to fake a shot. I personally don't understand how this thing can be done. There are texts that suggest that people who intend to redesign a gas weapon into combat will fall under the Law's blows. In practice, honourable Members, any non-gun weapons may be redesigned with the necessary knowledge in firearms, including a pipe, with an excuse for the expression not intended for weapons, may be adapted to fire various types of ammunition. Here you have to make very serious judgments regarding intentions, because the speculations that can be made with regard to those who use different reenactments weapons, as a collection and so on, do not fall under the blows of the Law. The concerns of the masters who produce collectible weapons or reenactments weapons are justified that they will fall into this section of the Act. Of course, the colleagues who spoke before me rightly pointed out the concerns of the Bulgarian hunters who already possess weapons which were originally intended for automatic use, i.e. automatic weapons, then with different modifications were brought into use for hunting purposes. Here, there is a opposition of different groups to those who have already acquired such weapons, to those who will acquire. We're talking about inheritance and so on. Here our main question is: why did these texts appear and why did they create such disputes? I am under the impression that this may be another directive which has been mistranslated by the specialists who have made such a translation, we hope this is it. Between first and second reading, the members of the portfolio committee should carefully examine all the texts. To separate all irregularities that have been observed, to reflect the interests of the affected persons and, here in the Chamber, to adopt a law at second reading that would be in the interest of the manufacturers of weapons for demonstration purposes, those who carry out cultural events, those who import hunting weapons and those who use hunting weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mr. Alexander Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u111	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will speak on the second bill, the Law on Arms tabled by the Council of Ministers, to clarify and to break several customs duties that have been widely discussed, unfortunately, and among my fellow hunters have been misinterpreted. [[Noise and lines.]] In any case, in the translation of the Directive, in its specificity, containing terminology relating to weapons for hunters, for sports purposes and for citizens, there are some moments which, when examining both the Internal Commission and the meetings that were held with representatives of the Office of the COS and the Ministry of Interior, have calmed hunting organisations, sports club organisations that deal with sport, as well as clubs such as. They said there will be a working group between the first and second reading of the maximum period to remove any technical inaccuracies and concerns of Bulgarian citizens who are engaged in sports, hobby or collect weapons. Let me just point out something else. And now in the Bulgarian legislation there is absolutely no right to own automatic weapons, so it is a bit controversial what is going on in the media that it is forbidden, you see, now to own automatic weapons? No! It is precisely because this bill refines texts for citizens who legally possess weapons that want to own for sport, for hobby, for hunting, for historical reconstructions, to make this bill so that I am convinced that we will make it not contrary to their interests and desires and not be more restrictive than the directive that we are quoting. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u112	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u113	In order not to aggravate the text of Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, but to make it in accordance with Bulgarian customs and traditions. Over 130 years there are organized hunting associations in Bulgaria, over 150 000 Bulgarian citizens are engaged in hunting for hobby. I think that the proposals made between first and second readings, as proposed by the Internal Security and Public Order Committee itself, will be refined, detailed and will calm Bulgarian hunters, athletes and gun collectors. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers and between first and second readings with maximum duration to clear all technical details that may disturb the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This bill I am talking about the Law of the Council of Ministers has had a very good public discussion, even after its introduction to the National Assembly. Mr. Sabanov has already mentioned that representatives of the Ministry of Interior, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and representatives of over 25 diverse public organizations were held at a very high level meeting with an expert group. I share the speeches of everyone before me and the common agreement reached between public organisations, parliamentary groups and the Ministry of Interior that between first and second reading there will be a working group with broad public expertise of these non-governmental and public organisations. This is important because there are two very important factors that we need to emphasise when implementing this directive. The first is that our Law on Weapons, let us say so briefly, is a very good law in which there are provisions that go beyond what Europe tells us. This is commendable to all lawmakers who have worked under this law. The second factor we need to take into account is that Bulgarian society, Bulgarian citizens besides high-tech culture, have a high weapons culture. The Bulgarian has respect for the weapon, he knows how to handle, serve and defend himself with this weapon. The fact that we have such a massive Hunting Union, the fact that we have so many public organizations that are involved in reconstruction and organizing reconstructions..... what we see today at Shipka, in Panagyurishte, in Tutrakan and other places... is the result of the self-employed work, efforts and resources of dozens of Bulgarian citizens, who, with their own resources, with their own knowledge, skill and technical capabilities, have reached a high level of reconstruction movement. In this direction, we must draw from the experience of these organizations and associations. There are many important questions that they can give us and tell us that I am talking specifically about the reconstruction movement, which is so violently developing in Bulgaria in the last 15 years, which has become a factor of patriotic education, preservation and presentation of the traditions of the Bulgarian Army, the police, of the Bulgarian national liberation movement. In this direction, the Law must ease the work of those people who are honest and respectable citizens who legally possess, acquire and use weapons which under current law are treated as cultural weapons. In this direction, I appeal to agreement with this law and an expert approach with the support of civil organisations, so that many details can be cleared between first and second reading, because this affects many diverse areas of sports shooting, through hunting to collectorship and the reconstruction movement, things that, with one word or improper transfer of a term, can create difficulties that no one can benefit from. We will support the Bill at first reading and hope for the maximum period between first and second reading of an expert work, together with the Ministry of Interior and the COS Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u116	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Associate Professor Mihov, you forgot to mention that in the Czech Republic, for example, this directive was not adopted, first. Two. All over Europe gas weapons are not on notification mode as they are in Bulgaria. They're all over Europe on a free regime. In Bulgaria, however, when a person goes and buys a gas weapon, he informs the COS Service. Now, with these changes, we want to do it in authorization mode, as you give permission for a gun that shoots a bullet, i.e. a gun. So it's hard to explain to Grandma Maria, who, six months ago, drove the thief out of her house with such a gas gun, how she could obtain a license to carry, use and store weapons in the same way as we offer in this law. We hope that everything that concerns Bulgarian citizens, unions and all other organizations that participated in this meeting will be cleared in this working group. I sincerely hope that the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Tsvetanov will do his best to clear things up in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? No. Mr. Manev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! I will not be detailed in my speech, as my colleagues before me were sufficiently comprehensive both in the positive and in the negative and in the questionable aspects of this law. I will only confirm that my firm belief is that the Law that is currently in force in Bulgaria is one of the best and highest levels in Europe. What we need to do with the Law tabled, in my opinion, is to adopt it at first reading and between first and second readings, as is the assurance and decision of the Internal Commission, taken officially at its meeting, there will be a working group. We have already held meetings with all of the participants listed by the participants in the previous meeting. The associations of hunters, sports associations, those involved in reconstruction and collection. Such meetings have already taken place and only the formula of the working group will result in no tension in real or not so real problems accumulated in this law as sensations and expectations. I am convinced that the Law at second reading will be extremely well inscribed in the current Law and will not create the tensions that are being drawn up. I appeal to all my colleagues that we do not give in to preliminary expectations for any bill, but that we support it now at first reading and actively participate, anyone who has an interest or knowledge, because there are experts in this area on the left side of this House, not one or two colleagues, and anyone who can attract external expertise in the working group, which will be to the Internal Commission, will be solely and only in the interests of citizens and their right to legally own their weapons, either for hunting, or for collector's purposes, or for sport. And as for the other bill that goes in a package, that of colleague Siddy, I think this change is easy, but it should be together in a package with the Law. It doesn't have to be separate. It's a good decision that they go together. I appeal to you, colleagues, support the Law at first reading, rework it and make it for second reading so that it meets all your requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u121	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! In this way, this bill we cannot accept and, more specifically, art. Five on this bill. Therefore, I sincerely hope that the words of those who speak are true and that these changes occur between first and second readings. I am a member of the Bulgarian hunting and fishing union and many of my colleagues are also members. Maybe I should declare a conflict of interest. Personally, I have three pieces of hunting weapons, two of which enter this law, fall under the blows of the now recorded law, Mr. Manev, and, more specifically, art. 5, t. 1, para. 6: Automatic firearms which have been modified into semi-automatic firearms. These weapons have had many conversations with colleagues, with industry, with experts, are manufactured by the respective companies in order to be used as hunting weapons. There are very few Bulgarian such weapons and mainly AK-Kashnikov. Most of these weapons are not Bulgarian. For us in this law is given a loophole, namely the paragraph in art. 5: Physical persons who acquired firearms referred to in point one-one, one-one, before 13 July 2017 may continue to store them, using them in compliance with the following requirements of the law... Dear colleagues, hunting is a tradition and is passed down from generation to generation. Hunting educates hunters and its members in environmental protection, in the displacement of game in our country. And this is passed down from father to son, to grandson, to son-in-law and so on. Mr. Deputy Minister, it is pride for a hunter to give his own weapon after he has completed his work, his son-in-law or another heir. By this law you restrict this right as well. I believe that between first and second reading, serious expert groups will work on this law and the Law will be clearly amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is useful because it raises the questions in principle and there are two trends: one is about liberalization and more flexibility, as is the proposal of the United Patriarchs. We have to realise that there are two beginnings and two approaches, and I will confirm an old position of.................................................................................... This is a dispute that is universal and which in different countries runs in a certain way. In the United States it has always been very relevant, but it stands before our society as a sovereign state, before a people who chooses their own model. What is being done today with this debate is particularly useful because there are opinions here, opinions on the subject of liberalising arms ownership and the ability of citizens to have them. To a large extent, the issue is being raised today and he also commented on the authorisation regime or citizens being able to buy weapons themselves. This is why I take the moment to confirm and reiterate the position of Ataka, which we have from the very beginning of our existence, to be able Bulgarian citizens to buy weapons, to own it according to a certain regime, by which we recognise that this is a general prevention against crime, because the possession of weapons always respects those who would use weapons against the rights, ownership of citizens and their honor, their dignity. Many of the crimes that are being committed at the moment would not have been committed if the perpetrators knew that they could be resisted, that is, the one against whom these actions are being directed, could use it at any moment. In this regard, the proposal of the United People is particularly relevant because it gives, in the context of everything we are talking about, all this matter, a greater opportunity for the gun owners to repair it, to own it, to keep it up to date for its use at the moment it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will first put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 854-01-74, submitted by Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs on 9 October 2018. Vote 128 MPs: 91 against 9, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 802-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. Vote 138 MPs: 97, against 20, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CRITICAL CODEX. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs, based on the laws adopted at the first vote on 25 October 2018 with importers: Council of Ministers, 8 October 2018; Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev, 9 October 2018. The report will introduce us to Daniel Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention, it is: "Report on General Law No 853-03-80 of 31 October 2018 on the First Voting of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, and the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Hristian Radev Mitev on 9 October 2018, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Renewal and Supplement of the Criminal Code (amend., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Paragraph 1 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u126	There's a statement. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u127	Thank you, Madam President. We're looking at the Penal Code. We don't need to explain how important this law is. Paragraph one of it changes the withdrawal in favour of the state and, in particular, certain definitions of what is taken away from the criminals when their guilt has been proven. In the words of importers and it became clear from the Legal Commission, this is done in order to introduce the requirements of Directive 2014/62 for the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union. Honourable Members, I would like to inform you that we, as a legislative body, are transposing the National Assembly, translating this directive into the Bulgarian legislation for the third time. The first time was in 2012 by means of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, this law was subsequently repealed and the Law on Countering Corruption was adopted and the Law on Illegally Acquired Property was adopted, more known as the Anti-Corruption Act, whose main purpose, according to its motives, was the introduction of this directive. More than that. After these laws, I dare say that the Anticorruption Law applied in Bulgaria far exceeds the standards for confiscation, confiscation and freezing than those of the Directive. You all know that the directive sets minimum standards and objectives that the countries are free to achieve in the way they see fit and according to their legal tradition. Our law allows for withdrawal even outside the penal process of the newest, and exactly what the older one allows, we will talk perhaps later today. Secondly, the directive identifies certain crimes in respect of which such seizure of property is possible and is about very serious, serious crimes such as drug trafficking, terrorism and money laundering, corruption and others, while in our law the list of crimes is much longer and it includes, for example, qualified theft or robbery. Thirdly, confiscation is possible under the same Directive, provided that there is a conviction. With regard to the latest version of our law on so-called civil occupation, this is not the case. It is obvious that we strive, or importers strive, with the proposed change in art. 53 to align with the provisions of the directive, but rather what they are seeking is that the Ministry of Justice does not have problems explaining what is the Bulgarian law of the European Commission and of the authorities that check how a directive has been transposed. It is not worth it to facilitate the communication of the Ministry of Justice with the European Union, to change criminal law for two reasons. The first reason is that art. 53, although it contains a definition, is in the general part of the Penal Code, in the types of penalties. This means that it is applicable to all crimes, and not as the directive says: to some serious ones. In this case, it does not matter whether you are being pursued for terrorism or by the will of the victim in a private case or whether it is an illegal catch of fish because we talked about hunting and fishing just now, this will apply to everyone, which is not at all the idea of the European legislator. And maybe something scarier. As it became clear to the working group that the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs organised, the prosecution pointed out to us that this text would take up a lot of time, resources, resources of prosecutors to be able to identify, respectively to provide or to ask for a withdrawal of a huge amount of property that has passed on to third parties, which has been converted and so on. This is what prosecutors will do within the narrow framework of the Code of Criminal Procedure and there is a risk that their focus will shift to the identification of property, and that there is no time left to prove the crime, and without proof of crime, confiscation of the Code of Penal Procedure cannot be. In a nutshell, in order to understand clearly: to make it easier for an official from the Ministry of Justice to check something that the European Commission is asking him, we will jeopardize the most important role of the Penal Code, namely the security that will follow punishment for any crime. Therefore, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u129	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like briefly to clarify § 1. In order not to remain with turning impressions, I would like to highlight the following. Indeed, after the first reading of the Bill, this text is from the Law of the Council of Ministers, the Committee on Legal Affairs formed a working group in order to clear the technical and legal issues in which there should be no political nature and political nuance. It is certainly that this was one of the provisions on which there was an in-depth debate, as it introduces concepts in art. 53, Section II "Speeds' as it introduces definitions for the direct and indirect benefit of the crime. As a result of this debate and after hearing all the opinions, we have adopted one, I would say, objective approach, which was primarily aimed at complying with the texts of the Directive, including in this debate, representatives of the Ministry of Justice have partly given up the proposals in their version, which would make it difficult for the investigative authorities to examine and prove the property that has been transformed or linked to the assets that have been the result of the criminal activity. So now the definition that will be of your attention for indirect benefit corresponds fully to the directive. With regard to the application of this type of sanctioning and the definition of indirect benefit and the claim that it covers all crimes in the special part, yes, it is a matter of consideration by the Member States of the European Union, in accordance with their legal tradition and with the requirements of law enforcement. In this case, honourable Members, I ask you to respect the following: there is no person who has committed a crime in which the purpose was to obtain a benefit that stands and does not transform it and wait for the state to take it away from it, or the criminal court to order a sentence in which there is a confiscation. Of course, he is also taking follow-up action to mask this property by transferring it by changing it by creating the appearance that the child who committed a crime has no bearing on this property. Therefore, I believe that the version, which is offered to your attention, is in line with the directive, is in line with the reasonable and reasonable standard for its application in Bulgarian criminal law. If I had to deviate from purely legal analysis, I'd say the following. It is impressive in recent days, honourable Members, without politicizing that the opposition in the current Parliament embraces causes that are aimed against the fight against corruption, against the confiscation of illegally acquired property, against the achievements that have been respected in the change of Bulgarian legislation, in order to build modern and modern anti-corruption legislation. Colleagues, if this is a common goal, we should be united in pursuing this goal. If she's not your target, please state it directly because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u130	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u131	Well, the consequences will be kept quiet then, Madam President. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u133	Because I got interrupted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u134	Mr. Zarkov, you might want to move on. Can you give him a line from Mr. Kirilov? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, I disagree with your speech, as you did not complete an analysis of what the consequences would be, and I am very interested in what the consequences would be. I expect you to express that opinion in your backside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there gonna be a second line? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a serious audience appeared, Mr. Stoynev is already here to listen to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u137	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, I can't help but say why and continue with the consequences. The consequences will undermine not only discipline, will undermine the authority of law, will also matter to the first essential prerequisite of this kind of legal regimes, that is, prevention, abstinence. They will show the public that, you see, the legislator can write laws, but the court can adopt an interpretive decision in which to say that there are no civil confiscations, that there have not been two laws, which have been a fact for more than seven years, that the more than 300 cases under these laws, you see, should be terminated. The society will remain convinced that it is not the legislator who solves the issue of pursuing the illegally acquired property, but it is decided by one or other oligarchic circles which, in one way or another, place separate magistrates. Again, this will contribute to this momentum for 30 years, in which the rule of law is easily sabotaged by one or another purely economically, I will not say We have sworn by this tribune to uphold the Constitution and to uphold the law. We make the law! We had the will to confiscate the production, it may not have been me, it wasn't Mr. Zarkov in 2012, it was, it wasn't us, but the Bulgarian Parliament had the will to have such production. He's decided on this case. Now the question we are discussing about indirect benefits is to correspond indirectly, indirectly, with the question of the volume of confiscated property as a result of criminal activity. Yes, honourable Members, we must clearly say that in a country that is fighting corruption, there must be two legal sanctions: those under the Criminal Code of Acquirement of property and civil confiscation, when this property has not been proven a specific crime, but has not been acquired with a legitimate source. Thank you. I apologize, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law and § 1 by importer supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u139	They voted 110 MPs: for 76, against 3, abstention 31. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u140	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 234 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "sales' is replaced by "sellers' and the word "sellers' is replaced by "sellers'. 2. A new para is being created. 2: For the purpose of the distribution of alcohol, alcoholic beverages or tobacco products without due authorisation, in non-essential cases shall be punished by imprisonment of one to six years and a fine of twenty thousand to one hundred thousand levs, as well as by deprivation of rights under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. The creation of para. 4. In violation of the established order, it shall draw up, hold or hide objects, materials or cannons, as well as technical equipment for which it knows or implies that it is intended or used for the construction of facilities for the production of alcohol, alcoholic beverages or tobacco products under para. 2, is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u141	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I specify that my statement is under § 2, which concerns the intended change in art. 195 of the Penal Code, included in Chapter V of Section I, namely theft. It is proposed to be added to the text of art. 195, para. 1 which states that the punishment for theft is a forfeiture of freedom from one to ten years, and that is when the the theft of a motor vehicle is in question. When discussing these texts in the Legal Commission and in the Working Group it became clear and practically said by all penalists that this text, this change is pointless and unnecessary. There are several reasons for this. Violations against motor vehicles and without this change at the moment are crimes, and there are several texts in the Penal Law that can be applied depending on the particular characteristics of the particular case. All lawyers know, and it is clear from a common culture, that when several penal texts can be applied in the same case, this can lead to a contradiction with one of the fundamental principles, namely that of legality. Currently, and without this text, the unlawful intrusion into a foreign vehicle, without the consent of its owner, is a crime under art. 346b of the Penal Code, if you want to check it. The unlawful withdrawal of a foreign vehicle from his master without his consent with the intention of using is also a crime under art. 346 of the same code. Taking a foreign vehicle from his master with intent to embezzle is theft under art. 194 and the following of the Penal Code, as is clear without this amendment. Qualification of such a theft is possible not by one, but by several of the compositions in the same name section that I mentioned. If the value of the car is high, it is applicable to the severely punishable composition of the vehicle under art. 195, para. 2, as it is now, no need for further changes. By the way, there is also the burglary or theft by technical means of a car, such as the use of various jamming devices or scanning devices, which the Ministry of Interior complains are difficult for them to pursue. In other words, without this text, the Penal Code gives all legal instruments to pursue this act. Obviously, there's no need for one. The question is why is it done. During the discussions, it sounded that this was the way to signal people, that is, we are chasing the preventive effect. But let's just think about what kind of signal. Let's take a look at the sanctions. This act is intended to be punished by prison, imprisonment from one to ten years. Please note that under current legislation, for example, child molestation is less punishable from one to six or two to eight years, depending on. Rape is being punished easier than what you're predicting right now for stealing a motor vehicle. This raises a much more general question about the country's criminal policy as a whole, about the Penal Code, not as separate provisions that we change too often, but about a system of norms that has its consistency and observes principles. I have mentioned the principle of legality and we must say about the principle of compliance of the punishment with the public danger of the act. It's a criminal law and a criminal law, let's not touch it lightly, because we're getting the opposite effect. I remind you that the old law on capital proceedings, which acted in Bulgaria a century ago, obliged judges to decide the cases according to the pure mind of the law. We're about to empty the law of pure reason. That's not good! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since there has been a debate under § 2, and since it is about the qualified theft of art. 195, indeed, we have had a thorough debate in both the working group and in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I will take the different understanding from the previous speaker in the following sense. He outlined the existing compositions in the Criminal Code, which we have a qualification that corresponds to the typical illegal "I apologize for this expression, i.e. illegal behaviour in relation to motor vehicles. There is still the problem of proving these acts, and for this reason we have adopted and believe that it is justified for precision and for systematic commitment to have a point. 12 in para. 1 of art. 195 to specify the object of the theft. We believe that this will clearly distinguish the hypotheses of the usual, say, typical theft of a motor vehicle from the unlawful withdrawal of a vehicle and from the unlawful withdrawal of a vehicle for another purpose I will refer to some of the statements of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov in the discussion on this issue. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Interior to initiate pre-trial criminal proceedings under art. 195, according to which proposals we very often receive a refusal, including from the prosecution to support such an indictment, precisely because of the circumstances that the intention to use the illegally withdrawn motor vehicle cannot be proved, for the simple reason that the vehicle itself is being completed. Very often parts of it are found on the so-called metal-plates and scrapyards or auto shops, and for this reason we believe that there is a need to create such a qualified composition, in so far as we also cover the cases in which the vehicle has been completed. With regard to the amount of the penalty, this amount follows the systematic place where we have taken it. 12. Comparisons with other crimes against the individual were not made and were not debated in the working group. If colleagues had such a view, they could make an appropriate proposal and now discuss a proposal specifically in terms of the amount of punishment. I recall that under this provision, as set out in § 2, no proposals were received between first and second readings or proposals under art. 83 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am infinitely astonished by the position of BSP. The society is in deficit, and three decades, in connection with such provisions, this text and this revision of the enforcement act that is currently being proposed. We, from the United Patriarchs, warmly welcome the initiative to be made in the Penal Code a few months ago. I asked, including Mr. Daniel Kirilov, when, when and finally, he came in. For me there are two explanations regarding the position of BSP. I'm not reading anything written here, ready supporting points, as you can see, but for me, the position of BSP may have two explanations. The first, in advance, I rule it out that BSP is trying to protect the thieves of motor vehicles. The other is BSP takes this position because of the simple opposition. Opposition everywhere, for everything, including on this issue on a strong, strict, absolutely legal text, absolutely necessary for the improvement of Bulgarian criminal law, because this case is extremely often applicable. The problem has been national for three decades. I'll make an explanation here, it's a little historical and legal. I will explain to BSP colleagues why this deficit is, why this delay is, why this vague notion continues to exist. As you know, fellow lawyers, the Penal Code is from 1968, created when such crimes simply did not exist. Then these crimes, the most similar, took place in a drunken company... take one...Lada..... or Moskovitch and take one walk, but then no one dared to do this deed, to commit this crime, to steal a motor vehicle. This deficit is historical in Bulgarian criminal law and at last we will clear it after 3 decades with the fact that we will name the execution act as it is. And the enforcement act according to all principles of criminal law is theft, not withdrawal, because no one currently takes away the motor vehicle to ride with his girlfriend or move between two discotheques, as has ever happened. So at last, we lawyers all need to unite again, and this must be a consensual issue so that what is not happening for three decades is not happening, because there is currently no good text to punish the perpetrator, the performer of this act and to be misled and put into prison, as we see the fresh case of those days. He has committed dozens of thefts of motor vehicles that go under some other wording, I say again the impersonal removal. This withdrawal, what is this withdrawal? This withdrawal takes place in the assembly, sale, transfer abroad of the motor vehicle....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now, to oppose it, to challenge it, to try to veil it, to stop it from the point of view of simple opposition, is absolutely untenable to me. Let's not argue about bullshit, about obvious things. If we can accuse Bulgarian politicians, fellow MPs from previous National Assemblys of something, reproach them in something, it is why so late after thirty years, the exact name of things happens, their legal interpretation and their introduction into the system of the special part of Bulgarian criminal law where they belong.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shopov, with all due respect, I am taking a line to tell you that you cannot leave the impression in the MPs and citizenship that you can hardly see today with this law the theft of a vehicle becomes a crime. In order not to be naked and not to take up more of the time, I will read to you, not from 1968, but from 1993, when the last time the text on the theft was changed: The person who took someone else's mobile property from possession without his consent, with the intention of legally embezzling it, was punished for theft of imprisonment for up to 8 years. Since the legislator has decided that this is not precise enough, he has made one more provision, even two more, but I will save you both: the person who illegally infiltrated a foreign vehicle without the consent of the owner and so on. Therefore, you can't say that now, you see, after thirty years the theft of the vehicle is criminalized that is one thing, in fact you can say what you decide? that is your right, but the prosecution? those who raise and maintain the charge were the Legal Commission, were the working group and explained in words simple that it is pointless text that it will not help, and in many cases it can harm. And this public phenomenon, which is dangerous enough to deal with it, the Penal Code, not only will not be harmed, but we can create a problem for law enforcement. That's what I wanted to tell you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Another line? A hole, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u150	Mr. Zarkov, you're just defending my thesis. What you're saying supports my vision, what I was protecting. We are aware of these texts, of this history and of the development of criminal law in connection with the violation of motor vehicles, but these are other enforcement acts, because the offence can be carried out through several enforcement acts. So far, it wasn't vetted, it wasn't determined, it wasn't fixed exactly that theft of a motor vehicle, because that's what we're talking about. Because even now someone can take away a motor vehicle to use it to move, to abandon it or because it just gives it pleasure, that is also a possible hypothesis. The mass practice, the case that damages thousands of Bulgarian citizens, the case, which has been a scourge for the Bulgarian society for three decades, is the theft, not abstract withdrawal, for some other purpose, in some other connection. Theft, theft is what we are talking about today, fixing and finally giving the Bulgarian law enforcement authorities and institutions the opportunity to apply for the fight against this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will only put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 70 against 15, abstentioned 11. The offer is accepted. Now I'm putting two texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3, and the second is the text of the importer for § 4, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 85, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u152	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: Paragraph 5 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraph 6 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u153	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the Commission's proposal to change the name of the subdivision as presented to you; and the texts of the importer for § 5 and § 6 supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 24. The proposals have been accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u154	Dear Mr. President, I am taking the procedure...... to extend the time until the fifth point is completed, as the bill is extremely important for all people with disabilities, and for the third week we have failed to vote on it. Unanimously accepted in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u155	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 95 MPs: 23, Against 7, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u156	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Paragraph 7 "Instruction text'. Under § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Philip Popov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Transitional and Final Provisions, § 7: 1. In point (a), point (a) (a) point (b) is deleted. (b) point (d) (b) shall apply. The words "al" in the words "al" in the book. The following points are inserted after point 12 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. Point 5 is out. 3. Paragraphs 6 and 7 shall become points 6 and 7 respectively. 5 and The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Christian Mitev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u157	Excuse me, Mr. Kirilov. We won't even have time to read the next paragraph. Will you make an offer until the vote on this § 7, or do we stop at exactly 2:00?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u158	Mr. Chairman, on this paragraph, the opposition has said it wants a debate, so let us not press the debate. If possible, let me read it. Reading will be about 7 minutes and speeches about 15 minutes at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u159	That means we're moving on to 2:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u160	Whatever you think, but if you want it to be read, it should be discussed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u161	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u162	Proposal by the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Christian Mitev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 is The Criminal Procedure shall be terminated on the basis of para. 5, t. 1 and in the cases referred to in Article 1. 25, para. 1, t. 6 if, within the six months following receipt of a notice of suspension, the victim of the crime does not file a grievance according to the order of art. 81........................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. the pre-trial proceedings found that the crime was prosecuted on the victim's grief. 3. Article 50 is amended as follows: Art. 50. When pre-trial proceedings establish that the crime is prosecuted on the victim's grievance, criminal proceedings shall be suspended and the prosecutor shall notify the victim of his right to file a complaint under Article. 81 if there are no grounds under art. 49. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The defendant shall have the right to be provided with general information facilitating his choice of defender. He shall have the right to freely communicate with his defender, to meet alone with him, to receive advice and other legal assistance, including prior to the initiation and during the conduct of the interview and any other procedural action with the participation of the defendant. (b) The current para. 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 7. (aa) in the text before t. 1 after the word "Staying" a comma shall be placed and added to the detention on the basis of art. 64, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (bb) c. 1 shall be added at the end, either by the accused person or by any other person referred to; (c) point 3 is repealed; (b) A new para shall be created. 8. Where the prisoner is a foreign national, the consular authorities of the State whose national is detained shall, at his request, be notified without delay through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If the detainee is a citizen of two or more States, he may choose the consular authorities of which State to be notified of his detention and with whom he wishes to make contact. (c) the creation of para. 9.. 11: In the case of a Member State, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the other Member States of the request. 7 as regards a specific person, it may be postponed for a period of up to 48 hours where there is an urgent need to prevent the occurrence of serious adverse effects on the life, freedom or physical integrity of a person or where action by investigative bodies whose obstruction would seriously impede criminal proceedings is necessary. The delay in such notification shall be applied in the light of the particular circumstances of each particular case and shall not exceed what is necessary and shall not be based solely on the type or severity of the offence committed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u163	The decision under para. 9 shall be taken by the prosecutor of pre-trial proceedings, which shall be ruled by a reasoned decree. The order shall be subject to appeal by the defendant or his defender before the relevant first instance court. (11) The Court shall, without delay, examine the action single-handedly in a closed hearing and shall rule by order. The order of the court shall be final. (d) the current para. 8 becomes para. 12. 6. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 72a: sovereign management of secured property Art. 72a. The property secured by the order of art. 72 in order to confiscate or confiscate property for the benefit of the State, is managed and kept under the order of the Anti-Corruption Act and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 81. 3 is amended as The grievance must be lodged within six months of the day when the victim has learned of the crime or from the day on which the victim received a notice of suspension of criminal proceedings on the grounds of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6................................................ 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 para. 3 is amended as follows: The civil action shall be brought at the latest until the opening of the hearing and, in cases of a private nature, until the start of the judicial proceedings before the court of First Instance. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 1 sentences are created, second, third, fourth and fifth: The defendant shall be explained the consequences of the refusal of a defender. The explanation as well as the reasons given by the accused for refusing a lawyer shall be reflected in the minutes of the relevant procedural action or in a separate protocol. The defendant shall be entitled, at any time during the proceedings, to withdraw his refusal from a defender, and the procedural actions carried out so far retain their procedural value. In the event of withdrawal of the defendant's refusal to defend the defendant, an opportunity shall be provided immediately to exercise its rights under art. 55. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235 words.............................................................................. 63, para. This appropriation is 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 243, para. 1, t. 1 is added at the end. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 244, para. 3 is finally a comma and is added to the cases of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6 and notify them of the rights under art. 80. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245 is created. 4. The prosecutor shall terminate the criminal proceedings if, within six months of receipt of the notice of suspension on the basis of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6 the victim of the crime filed a grievance according to the order of art. 81........................................................................................... 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 249, para. 4 t. 1 words.............................................................................. 55, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251, para. 5 the words "Twenty-first" shall be replaced by "Twenty-two." 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: On the basis of the above, the Commission The hearing shall be led by the President of the Chamber and shall begin with a report stating the reasons for the proceedings and the civil actions brought. (2) The President shall give the prosecutor, the private complainant and the civil plaintiff the opportunity to present the circumstances involved in the prosecution and the claims claimed. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 377. 1 is amended In the absence of the grounds of art. 78a of the Criminal Code, or where a material breach of procedural rules which has been allowed to be eliminated, has resulted in a limitation of the procedural rights of the accused under art. 249, para. 4 t. 1, the court terminates the proceedings and returns the case to the prosecutor. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 386 are created para. 5 and 6: In order to protect the best interest of the minor, the notification to a specific person under para. 4 may be postponed for a period of up to 24 hours where an urgent need arises to prevent serious adverse consequences to the life, freedom or physical integrity of a person or where action by investigative bodies whose obstruction would seriously impede criminal proceedings is necessary. The delay in such notification shall be applied in the light of the particular circumstances of each particular case and shall not exceed what is necessary and shall not be based solely on the type or severity of the offence committed. In this case, the State Agency for the Protection of the Child shall be informed immediately of the detention and delay of the notification. (6) In the cases under para. The provisions of Article 5 shall apply. 63, para. 10 and 11............................................................................................................. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 395a, para. 1 and 2 ................................................................................................. 55, para. 4............................................................................................ 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 420, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The first sentence is amended as follows: The defendant may make the request under art. 422, para. 1, t. 4 - 6 within six months of notification of the decision under art. 422, para. 1, t. 4 as from the entry into force of the relevant act under art. 422, para. 1, t. 5 or from the actual transmission in the cases referred to in art. 422, para. 1, t. 6.................................................................................. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) In para. 1 sentence first after the words "the sentence entered into force" is added "or the transmission from another state of the Republic of Bulgaria." (b) In para. 5 after the words "Presented by another State of the Republic of Bulgaria" is added after the admission. 24. In the additional provision: (a) the words (b) Paragraph 1a shall be created: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. The Code introduces the requirements of Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings under a European arrest warrant and on the right to notify a third party of detention and of contact with third parties and consular authorities during the period of detention (OJ L 294/1 of 6 November 2013.). The United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark are not bound by the Directive and its implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-12.u164	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. That's how we finish the job today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 13 December 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
