ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include it in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision on the occasion of the legislative mobility package of the European Commission. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Mustafa Karadayi, Valentin Kasabov and Gergana Stefanova on 5 May 2018. I propose that this be the second point for today's meeting. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE DEFINITION OF THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED OWNITY. Importers: Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Gergana Stefanova and Hamid Hamid on 10 May 2018. Mr. Kirilov, would you like to brief us on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-36, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and Hamid Bari Hamid on 10 May 2018. At its meeting held on 10 May 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-36, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Christian Radev Mitev, Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and Hamid Bari Hamid on 10 May 2018. The bill was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it proposed amendments to the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property related to the extension of the deadline for submitting the declaration of property and interests for 2017. Mr. Kirilov noted that due to the large number of circumstances to be declared and the short time of validation of the sample by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, a longer time period is needed for the collection of information about the declaration by the debtors. In this way, conditions will be created for all debtors under the Law who have to submit an annual declaration of property and interests under art. 38, para. 1, t. 2 for 2017, have sufficient time until 8 June 2018 to comply with the requirements of the Law. The discussion was attended by the MPs Yavor Notev, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov. In the course of the discussion, the MPs raised the issue of the proposed deadline, discussing the possibility of it being absolutely defined as a calendar date or being relatively determined. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 854-01-36, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and Hamid Bari Hamid on 10 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u4	Dear Madam People's... [[noise and lines]] , Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yes, Mrs. Karayancheva was the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u5	And now I'm the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u6	He's chairman now. No, no, I'm saying you were a regular MP, and now you're chairman. This further strengthens my sense of déjà vu. I'm sorry, but with the vote, you've already managed to turn it into something you've already experienced. What do I mean, colleagues? Even with the discussion of the Bill, these shortcomings were laid down, but if for me this feeling is unpleasant, then for the importers we have good news that a scientist of American origin, in fact he is an American scientist of Japanese origin, has actually discovered the answer to the phenomenon. And if our legislation is a matrix, then the anticorruption law chip makes a permanent error in our legislation. However, we must note that these changes that you are proposing are now the second changes are due precisely to the botched law that has been drafted and voted on. Here I would like to recall the words of a colleague who said: "Let us adopt the Law, because we are presidents and take account of those who are interested. Even then it was clear that it would not work and is not synchronized with the rest of the legislation that they are talking about and the changes that we are now forced to vote on. The other thing that is worse, we once again deal with ourselves and correct our mistakes about declarations that we need to fill out ourselves, and it turns out that we don't even have such an opportunity purely physically. We didn't think to think of ourselves. In that case, what guarantees to the rest of our society that we can and are able to take care of them? If we go back a little bit, just a week, in terms of wages and our proposal, it is a good thing that, colleagues, no one thought to bind our salaries to the quality of the bills we offer, because then we would only have to drive on fasts and voting. We will support this bill, unfortunately [[noise and lines]] But this is just another amendment to the unthinkable bill you proposed and voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Replies to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor not only because we missed the presentation of an importer, but also to take the opportunity to clarify. Why is it necessary to clarify? Because either we don't understand the text that we are proposing, or we are trying all the time, here I'm going to say: out of all of us are making constant attempts to abuse this proposal in one way or another. First of all, I would like to say that the importers did not make up this proposal ourselves. Perhaps some of us are even opposed to this proposal, but this proposal was imposed by the circumstances, by objectivity, by the fact that we had two public selection procedures to elect a president, vice-presidents and members of the Anti-Corruption Commission. The two procedures took time. Critics of this proposal, Mr. Baychev, can rightly say: You have known these things at least since December. [[Heckling]] Yes, yes, whatever was unclear to you, you have plenty of time, even though there are five days left until the end of the term to do your job. Once again, they would probably have had reason in this statement, but I recall the following fact: this law extended the circle of persons obliged to declare these circumstances. In general, I will describe them this way: the first group are those who hold senior positions. The basis for our declaration was found in the previous law. There is also it in the corps of this law. We continue to be obliged to declare, but to this category of persons there are added about 12, or rather 15, new categories of persons that we have pointed out to take up senior positions. Besides, colleagues, I remind you that... [[Noise.]] Madam President, if the House is not interested, I can stop speaking, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u9	No, go on, Mr. Kirilov. I will make a remark and which is not interested I will ask him to leave the Chamber to conduct his dialogue outside. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u10	These few days I felt that this was almost the most dramatic issue. That's why I think we need to make an explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u11	It is, especially when I didn't give you the floor for motives, so you have the floor for speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u12	The second group, colleagues, are the category of persons holding not senior but key positions in administration in all administrations. These are the category of persons under § 2. There we also have an extension of these individuals with members of the management bodies of commercial companies with state and municipal property, with an extension of the circle of individuals from the local administration, including mayors of town halls. The other, conditionally led by a third group of persons, although it is also in § 2, are civil servants who have still submitted such declarations. For this reason, fellow Members, although the Commission's assessment and census on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for the debtors is about 2500 of the category of senior officials, we have assessed and agreed that the five days should be extended between the colleagues of the Legal Committee, respectively, to enable both the register to work with the new body and the obliged persons to have sufficient time to react. I would like to remind you, fellow Members. In this format, declarations shall not be filled in for the first time. The declarations were applied for the first time by amending the Law on the Judiciary with regard to magistrates. For this reason, and in the current content of the declaration, you see that there are circumstances that were influenced by the debate about what the magistrates declare. In applying this rule to magistrates, in my opinion, and certainly in your opinion, I believe that there has been sufficient legal discipline, time limits have been respected, and apart from one or two separate cases of senior magistrates who have not submitted declarations, I will not quote names, in general, this process has passed without a problem. We appeal to the fact that the people who hold senior positions and who work in the administration must bring to ourselves the same criterion and strictness of legal discipline, because we have already required this, and I would say that we have done it consistently so far. It is natural for the first application, especially in the press of time, to create tension. It's up to you and us to give in to this tension. I repeat, in any case, those who choose us want to watch. They want to see. For this reason, we must do our duty and show ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u14	Thank you, Madam President. A brief line from Mr. Kirilov, I told him yesterday on the sidelines. Colleagues, as well as the government's priority, and the parliament's priority is e-government. So far, I've been filing a statement for three years, and I've never had to go to the other building to take a business note on incomes, on a universal fund and whatnot. Now we are changing legislation, we are doing something better, but it turns out that not only are we the MPs, but probably all the people who will have to fill out these things should go back to bureaucracy, floors, offices. Somewhere you need to put in a preliminary application to get the document, given that this state administration has it, that these incomes are a function of the basic remuneration. And it's all public and clear. My request is for those who make the declarations to make a recommendation to be made so as to relieve the people who submit them. I understand that there is an interest in being watched and read, but in the end we are walking towards electronic control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I will repeat what I said yesterday: you are absolutely right. For this you are absolutely right, but in these days I find many and many different interpretations of the individual paragraphs, which are a consequence of what is written in the Law, of the circumstances that we need to declare. Here I repeat that the legislator does not want you to submit a document of your remuneration as a Member of the National Assembly, because it can be easily established. My explanation for indicating the total amount of income is in view of the following circumstance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u17	Colleagues, please be quiet! Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u18	Since there is an opportunity for you to have received other remunerations that you are obliged to declare in the last tab, it is appropriate to have the opportunity to indicate the total amount and, in a comprehensive or more punctual manner, the revenue from other sources should be indicated. Once again, this is my interpretation. We hope that the Anti-Corruption Commission and the illegally acquired property will also make instructions in this regard. Personally, I don't think I'm gonna prove it, and I'm not gonna apply a corporate income report that's my business income. I will also not declare circumstances which are officially known and concern my service, which I perform, because, as you say, there are numerous registers and institutions where this should be verified. If someone believes that I have wrongly declared, there is a legal opportunity under the procedure to carry out a check and then it will be seen whether and what is the amount of remuneration from the National Assembly, what is the amount of income received on other grounds. That is what I meant when I said that we should interpret in good faith, not intentionally. In the declaration I saw no indications of the kind
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u19	To declare it, you must demand it and take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u20	You need to know it, and how you're gonna establish it... you can identify it on monthly paychecks, you can establish it on the phone by asking the service.Trud and paycheck. In order not to prolong, there are many clarifications, there is a need for methodological and indicative activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the adoption of the Law for the second time, a correction of the adopted texts has been made. We are very specific and irritablely explained that the Law on Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property should be corrected because of a technical error, oversight. It is recognised by the majority that there is a delay and it is therefore necessary to change the period of time for the Declaration of Property and Interest for 2017. It is stated in the reasons: due to the large number of circumstances to be declared and the time needed to collect information about the declaration by the debtors requires an extension of the period. These detailed explanations by the Chair of the Legal Commission Mr. Kirilov, his vision and his interpretation of the texts have nothing to do with what each of us is about to do, and each one of us within the scope of this law. I repeat the high number of circumstances to be declared and the time needed to collect information. Who are you lying to, Mr. Kirilov? There's been a mistake. And this mistake, as recognised by you, must be forgiven. There's been a mistake. There's forgiveness! That's the kind of mistake you're responsible for. For all the mistakes you've made and wasted plenary time, you've wasted time on all the MPs to correct your mistakes, do you know how to be held responsible? You know, right? You're resigning. Your incompetence, your carelessness towards the work that has been put in you as chairman of the Parliamentary Committee.. The Legal Commission, the most important in this Parliament, leads to an attitude [[GERB lines]] to the overall work of the National Assembly. And don't yell, guys! That's your style! You will use this body to show all the repression you are capable of as executive power. The extension of the deadline cannot overwhelm the other handicaps of the texts in the Law, which we are about to face again. What will you accomplish? You will show the truth about the circumstances that concern each person within the scope of the Law. You can cover them up. You're in executive power. You've appointed this authority. You didn't accept that the opposition should have representatives and be able to control you, those who have public funds, those who only seem to be fighting corruption. [[GERB lines.]] You're dressed in this power that you think will last forever, and you allow yourself to slowly, irrigationly, quietly, calmly explain. You only offer extension, ladies and gentlemen of the government. What are you explaining to us? That we don't have to collect documents, that you won't correct this law anymore? Are you sure about that? Can you guarantee that? This legislation, which is adopted in the National Assembly in this format, first of all, that it is not precise and is unclear, can only be qualified in a single way "it is bad legislation and is yet to be corrected." Chaos in the legislation! Starting from this example, we can come to the example why there are no investments in Bulgaria. Do you know why? [[GERB lines.]] Because of the bad legislation that you are voting by a majority with a little interruption since 2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u23	On the subject, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u24	You will not frighten anyone with this pressure you are trying to apply, with what I repeat again is a repression of the executive power through this authority, in which, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that there are agents who cannot show their faces. He's not an investigator, who are they hiding their faces from? We saw him in custody the first, memorable arrest of this body. Should we expect new arrests due to declarations? Mr. Kirilov, resigned because of the mistakes in the law and because of the law itself. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u26	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u27	Just to finish the procedure, Mr. Kirilov. There are no lines. Personal explanation Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Not that I was offended by the pathetics of my colleague Iankov, but there must be light. Goethe said it, so we must repeat objective truths. [[Applause from GERB.]] I remember, Mr. Yankov, 2008, I remember that parliament, yes, exactly the spotlight. There were fellow lawyers who now speak quite a bit in the intonation and in the range in which you are trying to talk, which for the first Law of Conflict of Interest had three times changed the form of the declaration. I'm not gonna say if they're wrong, and I'm not gonna explain myself to you whether there's a mistake here or not, but I'm gonna point out that I don't feel guilty in any way. I would like to remind you that this bill has been developed by a working group in which representatives of all of them have been involved, I would say, you love the word "authorities," I would not say institutions that should exercise this control over all of these institutions. These are their editorials, colleague Iankov. I prefer, as these are the competent authorities, to follow the requirements of these authorities. Again, when something is first applied, it takes time to work. I will repeat, obviously this law frightens you for this reason you claim that this is bad or I do not know what legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Go ahead, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal to put an end to these pointless debates because the next point is more important than this point to support the Bulgarian business with a written declaration, and there is an objective need to postpone the deadline, although there was no objective need to create such a body and to adopt such a law, as there was no objective need to adopt the Law of BSP and anyone else. By the way, I haven't told you anything new. This has been the position of DPS for many years, since famous circles in Bulgaria have been trying to impose the Romanian model, the unfortunate Romanian model in this direction. At the moment there is an objective need to correct a law from which there was no objective need! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The proposal made by Mr. Tsonev is at first reading, so there is no way to end the debate. Are there any other statements? You've been persuasive, Mr. Tsonev. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill to supplement the Law on Countering Corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Vote 157 MPs: for 154, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, and since no proposals or applications have been made for proposals under the bill under discussion, I ask that a proposal be put to the vote to move to second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u33	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 149 MPs: 149, against and abstention none. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a draft for a second vote: THE LAW OF THE supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act and withdrawing illegally acquired property § 1. Paragraph 4 shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions. 3: The declaration of property and interests under art. 38, para. 1, t. 2 for 2017 shall be submitted by 8 June 2018 Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 14 May 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u35	You have a statement please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I asked for a statement to make an amendment to § 1 in respect of para. 3 of § 4 in the following sense. I propose an al. 3 to acquire the following version: The debtors referred to in art. 6, para. 1 and § 2, para. 1 of the Additional Provisions, other than those under para. 1 shall submit the declaration of property and interests under art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 for 2017 by 8 June 2018 I'm applying the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u37	This is actually a larger version of al. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u38	This is a more explanatory version of what I read as a text of importers. I'll explain why it's being proposed. This version is mainly proposed and, in the interests of clarity, it is more descriptive, but its aim is to convince all the lawyers and non-jurists and non-jurists who read the legal rules and who cannot read the legal rules that this extension covers all, absolutely all debtors who would have an obligation to submit the return declaration within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's editorial amendment to create para. 3 with content that Mr. Kirilov read just now. Please, voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: 148, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the name of the Bill, the newly created paragraph 3 in § 4 and the Final provision. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Before we go to the next point, I'll read you a message: Honourable Members of the National Assembly, yesterday, 10 May 2018, with vh. No 854-02-25 was received Draft Decision on a report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for establishing all facts and circumstances in relation to the privatisation and planned sale of the companies of the CEZ Group in Bulgaria, submitted by the Chairman of the Temporary Commission According to the letter accompanying the Draft Decision, the Temporary Commission has completed its work within the time limit set by the National Assembly. " 10 May 2018, and that, for technical reasons relating to the editing of the report adopted by the Commission, it will be submitted by 11 May 2018 including. In this regard, I inform you that after the report is made available to you the same will be provided to the e-mails, together with the draft decision already submitted to it. Moving on to item two on our agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE LEGISLATION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION. Who will brief us on the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications? Here you go, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a draft decision on the European Commission's legislative mobility package, No 854-02-24, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Mustafa Karadayi, Valentin Kasabov and Gergana Stefanova on 10 May 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 May 2018, a draft decision was discussed on the occasion of the European Commission's legislative mobility package, No 854-02-24, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Mustafa Karadayi, Valentin Kasabov and Gergana Stefanova on 10 May 2018. The proposed draft decision envisions the National Assembly to assign the Council of Ministers to discuss the legislative package for the mobility of the European Commission and to adopt an unambiguous position in support of the demands of the Bulgarian carriers and in defence of their and those of the Bulgarian citizens rights and interests. The proposed draft decision takes into account the high contribution of the transport sector to economic growth in the European Union and Bulgaria, as well as the mobility of everyone directly employed in the international transport of goods in the European Union. The draft decision states that, in view of the exceptional mobility of labour in the sector, the inclusion of international transport and the sabotage within the scope of the legislation on the workers under command is not justified and would have a strong negative impact on the transport sector in Central and Eastern Europe. The application of this type of legislation to international drivers will burden disproportionately both transport operators and Member States. A large part of small and medium-sized enterprises will be pushed out and the market will only be reserved for large and large carriers. The aim of European legislation in this area is to allow transport operators to compete on equal terms, to seek adaptation mechanisms, and not to impose difficult requirements to limit the growth of this economic sector. Another significant concern is the obligation to use the regular weekly rest outside the vehicle, which will in turn force drivers to leave their cargo for which they are personally responsible, and will cost them additional costs for insurance and stay in a hotel. The requirement of returning the driver home every three weeks would also pose a serious challenge to carriers. Enterprises will be forced to provide additional transport to their employees to return to the country, which would result in serious financial costs and reduce the flexibility of the distribution of working hours and hours of rest. In their positions on the mobility package, transport industry organisations express their concerns about the possibility of unjustified increase in the costs of Bulgarian carriers as a result of the proposals on the mobility package in the European Union. The members of the Commission agreed that the functioning of the European market should not be bound by restrictive rules which do not take into account the specifics of the transport sector and restrict the free movement of goods and people. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on the occasion of the European Commission's legislative mobility package, No 854-02-24, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Mustafa Karadayi, Valentin Kasabov and Gergana Stefanova on 10 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u41	Will you read the solution, Mr. Tashkov? Here's the draft decision, it'll be read directly, and then I'll give you the floor for speeches. [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva submitted documents to the National Representative Atanas Tashkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u42	Project! DECISION on the occasion of the European Commission's legislative mobility package The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, Having regard to the high contribution of the transport sector to economic growth in the European Union and Bulgaria, Having regard to the mobility of all persons directly employed in the international transport of goods in the European Union, Having become aware of the positions of transport industry organizations in a number of member states and taking into account the possibility of unjustified increase in the costs of Bulgarian carriers as a result of the proposed legislative changes on the so-called mobility packages 1 and 2, which will endanger their competitiveness, Having regard to the threat of bankruptcy of hundreds of Bulgarian carriers as a result of the proposals on the mobility package in the European Union, Taking into account that some of the proposals on the so-called mobility packages 1 and 2 constitute interference in free market relations, and Taking the view that: - in view of the exceptional mobility of the workforce in the sector, the inclusion of international transport and the sabotage within the scope of the legislation on the workers under command is not justified and would have a strong negative impact on the transport sector in Central and Eastern Europe, as well as an impact on the entire European economy; - the application of this type of legislation to international drivers will burden disproportionately both transport operators and Member States. A large part of small and medium-sized enterprises will be pushed out and the market will only be reserved for large and large carriers. The aim of European legislation in this area is to allow transport operators to compete on equal terms, to seek adaptation mechanisms, and not to impose difficult requirements to limit the growth of this economic sector; - the obligation to use the regular weekly rest outside the vehicle will force drivers to leave their cargo for which they are personally responsible and will cost them additional costs; - the requirement to return the driver home every three weeks also poses a serious challenge to carriers. Undertakings will be forced to provide additional transport to their employees to return to the country, which would result in serious financial costs and reduce the flexibility of the distribution of working hours and hours of rest; - the good functioning of the European market should not be subject to restrictive rules which do not take into account the specifics of the transport sector and restrict the free movement of goods and people HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers to discuss the legislative package for mobility of the European Commission and to adopt an unambiguous position in support of the demands of the Bulgarian carriers and in defence of their and those of the Bulgarian citizens rights and interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. Mr. Veselinov, then Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor very briefly to state the strong support of the group of the United Patriarchs. We have one of the brightest examples of attempted robbery, and a demographic robbing of our country by our larger European partners. Our government must give a clear sign that such a standard and similar attitude in the European Union are absolutely unacceptable. What is the purpose of the so-called Project "Makron" to force our drivers to over 100,000 people, by the way, to end their activities with Bulgaria base, to break the connection with Bulgaria and to go to work in the large Western companies that are uncompetitive of ours. That is, through an administrative approach to smashing a business on a serious scale for Eastern Europe. We must absolutely oppose this! I'm starting to think, if this project still goes to Europe, we're going to have to oblige European trade chains once a month to carry all their stock to their motherland and bring it back! [[Noise and lines.]] Since there's going to be such a double standard?! I welcome this enviable unity in the Bulgarian Parliament, which stands behind the interests of the Bulgarian carriers. We stand firm and we stand firm. Let us, with all the levers that each of the political forces in parliament have, strive to protect our national interest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Svilensky, come in. Then Mr. Tsonev after Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, and I, in turn, would like to thank the Transport Commission, the branch organizations, the Ministry of Transport, who have been working actively for weeks in the direction of support of Bulgarian carriers, Bulgarian companies, Bulgarian industry and Bulgarian drivers, of course, because they are most vulnerable to these amendments, which are proposed to be made. I thank all my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and their chairmen who signed the draft decision. Thank you for agreeing to be a draft decision, not just a declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament, because, being a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, this obliges the Bulgarian government from now on to make such decisions that they are actually in defence of the Bulgarian carriers. Today we hear different positions of the Minister of Transport, who was even ready to resign, and of the Prime Minister in their private talks, in their meetings, but we had no position of the Bulgarian government. I hope that after today's adoption of this decision the Bulgarian government will gather within an hour, take this important decision for the Bulgarian drivers, for the Bulgarian carriers and defend their interests. As far as the two packages are concerned. If for the first package things are going towards finalisation and there really the fight and battle will be difficult to protect the Bulgarian interests, then for the second mobility package concerning bus carriers, which is fundamentally opposed to that of freight transport, I think it is now time for the Bulgarian government to take a position and be clearly articulated in Europe, to know that Bulgaria does not accept this type of interference in economic relations. Once again I thank Mr. Tsvetanov, Mrs. Nino, Mr. Karadayi and Mr. Kasabov for signing this important decision for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u47	And Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u48	And Mrs. Stefanova, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I, too, will join in thanking for the consolidation in the Bulgarian Parliament. However, I would like to mention that some time ago all Bulgarian European representatives in the European Parliament united in the same way around a declaration that expresses precisely this position in support of the Bulgarian transport business. With this decision today, I hope that we will be heard and taken a nationally responsible position not only by the government, but also by being heard, and that this position will be distributed and adopted in the European Parliament! Otherwise the Bulgarian business will be crushed. About 7,000 Bulgarian carriers have under 10 trucks, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about small business. The small business will not be crushed, he will be deprived of the right to operate on European markets at all. Eight thousand are carriers that have over 10 trucks, so around 16,000 carriers will be deprived of the right to operate on the European market. About 1600 carriers are bus carriers. Those carriers with the second package of measures that Mr Svilenski mentioned will in the same way be deprived of the right to work in the European Union. That is why we are going out today with the clear solution that we must fight to remove this measure and leave the Bulgarian carriers on a competitive basis to work like everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! For my part, I would also like to express the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to the Bulgarian business, for this decision in support of the Bulgarian business, and also to express the satisfaction of our parliamentary group that there is consensus on this issue. The European Commission's mobility legislative package in question has nothing to do with European practices, nor with the Treaty on European Union. This is one of those solutions that creates the problems in the European Union. That kind of solution is the basis of Brexit. That's exactly the kind of decision you're making! Decisions for the benefit of one party or another and against normal real competition. Perhaps we should remind our European partners that the cost of labour is also a competitive condition in business. If the cost of the labor of the Bulgarian drivers is seen to be low, this is a problem of competitiveness. By means of legislation, we must not interfere where the market and the main principle of the market are active. I would also like to open a question about the actions of the Bulgarian Parliament and the government when it comes to really protecting the Bulgarian business. These moments will be more and more, and this consensus, and this will to protect the Bulgarian business will be increasingly needed by the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian entrepreneurs. And to answer to colleague Veselinov for the chains. The movement for rights and freedoms in my person in 2013 we made a bill aimed at regulating this particular advantage of the chains. And to address Mrs. Ninova, we were with her authors of this bill, we brought it in together, and lately I've been listening to how BSP brought it in, and BSP was the author of this bill and the subsequent one?! We are also open to working on the problem of chains. The policy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always been and will be in support of the Bulgarian business, of course, in compliance with the market mechanisms and the normal requirements of our European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u54	Dear colleagues, we are facing a very bright moment for Bulgarian parliamentaryism in connection with the general agreement. Five, six or ten years ago, that wouldn't have been possible. We are being lowered by the order from Brussels, wrapped in good intentions, and here would be voted unanimously. Only by attack we would have tried to fight and we would have been spit. Now what we want, wrapped in good intentions, because the care, of course, is for the man, in this case the carriers, the drivers, is clear. It is a restribution in favour of a foreign national interest and let's face it, who is the national interest of France. That's where the word comes from, spoken in another language. We from Ataka have many times stood in favor of the Bulgarian carriers, when, I would like to remind, there was a problem with the Turkish country. The events were very dramatic and the question was then decided whether the Bulgarian carriers would have them. Then the question was to protect the industry and we succeeded. So now we can account for this rise in freight transport. Bulgaria has always had a tradition in this regard, if you will, and for the simple reason that we are at a crossroads, in such a geographical place from which we can very successfully perform this service. The present case is a typical example of how from Brussels, how many bad things come from Europe and an attempt to be bad, an attempt to interfere with our rules without any reason. What European, what is Brussels in what is asked of us? Therefore, here we can all proudly stand and say: we defend the Bulgarian national interest and the rights of the Bulgarian carriers with the act to be voted on. From now on, let us give many other similar examples in the future, all united and with consensus to protect the Bulgarian national interest, as we will do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Zablyanov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Ah, Mr. Vigenin wants a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I take this opportunity to say that we are the European Union. Nothing from the European Union comes here to prevent us, we are involved in decision-making. In this case, this is a proposal for which our vote is also required. Today the Bulgarian Parliament stands behind the Bulgarian interest and tries with a solution that has far greater value than only the position of the Minister of Transport, to demand this interest to be defended, to give a mandate to the government and, accordingly, to the Minister, when they gather next time, to say: Next time it's gonna be something that's in our best interest, and we're gonna have to stand up for ourselves. I'm talking about other decisions. Stop looking at the European Union and Brussels as something that is out there, and here we are dictated. We participate in this process, we make decisions and today we show how this can become effective in the interests of the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Second line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u58	I don't understand, Mr. Vigenin, what was that line?! You seemed worried and affected that I spoke about the Bulgarian national interest, as if I were creating some intrigue and some contradiction with Europe. Perhaps you, as a faithful servant in Brussels, but also a conductor of the Brussels interests, of the European interests in Bulgaria, feel affected and are obliged to take account of yourself, to oppose me and to say: "We are loyal subjects, we are here fulfilling the words, so I understand you, you are a well-known defender of foreign interests in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u59	Mr. Shopov! Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u60	...loosen up, execute strictly, accurately. [[Relations from the National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] You're also offended at the moment. So you are quite different from your colleagues from BSP, but this is part of the scheme in BSP to be different, to be a multi-faceted party. One like that, one way or another, that's how we perceive your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Personal explanation or manner of conduct? That's right, you keep it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u62	By the way, because I don't see why I have to explain myself to this nonsense that was spoken from the stands. Please, Madam President, do not allow Members of Parliament to address insults to other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u63	I made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u64	That line didn't have anything to do with what I said, that's what I said. Very please, when doing such lines, be careful to listen. First, to know what he said, to listen carefully to the line and then, when he does the duplicate, it is essentially, and not here to develop any theories that exist only in Mr. Shopov's head and part of his colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Zablyanov, for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! As we can see, even consensus creates tensions in our National Assembly. I take the floor to address one fact. The topic we are discussing is perhaps the first occasion or the first act of a new economic policy, perhaps institutional in the first place, which begins within the European Union. This is a policy of protectionism, without any agreement on this subject, openly stated not only by the French President Mr Macron, but also by other Heads of State of European States. Perhaps transport is that sector in Bulgaria, which because of the place it has in our economic and social life, is the most neural point. That is why we quickly achieved this consensus. This is a theme of the European Economic Area, which I am convinced that, over the coming months and years, will generate constant tensions, as various acts of states are beginning to limit and violate fundamental principles of the free market in Europe. It seems to me that, as political forces, especially the parliamentary majority behind the government, we should be ready for a clear definition of the Bulgarian economic and national interest in a broader aspect. Because, without understanding this, without clarity, we will be constantly in situations where we react to Adhok and perhaps not in the best way. In this case, I think it is appropriate to say that this is not just about protecting the Bulgarian business and investors in international transport, but it is about 190 thousand Bulgarian workers. One hundred and ninety thousand Bulgarian workers employed in this sector!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u67	And their families.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u68	Yeah, and their families. In other words, these issues do not concern only investors. They are also issues of a social nature that lead and will lead to severe social contradictions on the European continent. This new policy is gradually becoming necessary. The French president is expressive of this new policy. It openly offers a new institutional, new market order in Europe, a new type of hierarchy in Europe, a common European budget. I only list some of the proposals that are publicly known. In this regard, I believe that today's decision, which is proposed, is a step in the right direction, but the Bulgarian government must be given a mandate, and also the parliamentary majority itself, to show the necessary initiative to every decision forward to the European Parliament and the European Commission, which directly affects Bulgarian economic and other interests, should be subject to a thorough institutional and parliamentary discussion where necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Zablyanov, you are right that it is an economic policy of protectionism of the major countries in the European Union, but you are wrong that this is a new economic policy.... the policy of protectionism in the European Union is as old as the European Union. The point is, now it's getting clearer. It used to be more hidden. Therefore, our resistance must be clearer and more organised, as it is today. I can give you more examples, not just in transport. That's the way it is in the financial sector, that's the way it is in the banks. There is also a policy through regulators towards local banks for the benefit of large banks from European countries. It's the same in the non-bank financial sector. That's what I said, in the chain of commerce. Just because we state these things doesn't mean we're not pro-Europeans. Let us distract this delusion and attempts at criticism that will come from certain circles in Bulgaria or from certain political forces outside parliament. Being a European, being a pro-European, is exactly what it means to fight against the things that create centrifugal forces in the European Union, which divide the European Union into zones, speeds, large, large, small and so on. Therefore, we of the DPS, being a pro-European party, will fight against these things in the European Union, defending business, all countries having equal rights, and not just a book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. For the back, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr Minister! I do not understand Mr. Tsonev's statement as a replica, but perhaps as a certain clarification to what I said or an extension of the subject. I would like to draw attention to another fact, which is also important. This is our understanding, our attachment, after Bulgaria became a member of the European Union, to the general principles of the construction of the euro area. If we remember, yet one of these key principles is the free movement of goods, people and capital. It turned out that in this common market Bulgaria is only competitive with its work. I don't think there's anything here about it being mentioned somewhere in speeches. It turned out that neither capital nor otherwise nor the technological Bulgarian economy, investors... I will give a number of more examples of other sectors. Is there protectionism in the European Union in energy? How many Bulgarian energy companies can work in Italy, France, Germany, although they are competitive in financial and other indicators? In this order protectionism is currently referring to that component of our economy, which is competitive. As they say, we have one thing we can compete with, and they take it away from us. That's what this is about. That is, that general principle of building the European Economic Area cannot be plotted. Because I have a hypothesis, a personal understanding that this principle will be plotted. The free movement of the labour resource will be limited and will remain the free movement of capital. This principle will be modified, and we must be ready to stand up for it in its entirety, because it enables us to have a decent share in the common market. Years ago, there was this concept of division of labor. We do not even realize that our holding in any way does not participate or participate peripherally in the European division of labour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the draft decision on the European Commission's legislative mobility package.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u74	140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision's been made. [[Applause.]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next item of the weekly programme: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I'm going to introduce you to new questions for the period 4 - 10 May 2018: - Asked by the MPs Anton Kostadinov Kutev and Mihail Ivaylov Hristov to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. The reply should be made in plenary on 18 May 2018; - was asked by the MPs Georgiev Mihaylov, Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Georgi Yanchev Gokov, Ilian Angelov Timchev to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, about the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 18 May 2018. Two questions were received in total. Written replies to the service.. written reply from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question of the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question of the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests of Rumen Porozhanov question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on three issues from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Let's move on to the questions... [[Noise and lines.]] For the procedure please, Mr. Kutev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u75	Dear Mr. Notev, I regret once again that you are holding the meeting when I am doing the same procedure for the second time two weeks ago. Then we talked about the Law on interest rates and about citizens with savings deposits, and that this bill hasn't been on the Committee on Budget and Finance for half a year with the sole purpose of not passing. The most immoral MPs from GERB voted for the first reading and from then on they do their best not to enter the Chamber, but to avoid entering the Chamber the Committee between first and second readings. I'd like to inform citizens with housing savings that they're being conned right now and that they're trying to take their money. The difference between this bill, which is currently proposed and the current bill in force, is 190 million. 190 million, which the state currently does not want to pay off to citizens who have the opportunity to sign up again and extend the time limits for paying the interest rates, the state to pay for them. Gentlemen of GERB, this is a scam. You cheat your constituents. Therefore, Mr. President, once again, I call on you to have the necessary impact on Menda Stoyanova as President of the Committee on Budget and Finance in order to enter the bill in question in committee, respectively, after that. I'm taking the chance that I'm taking the floor right now to invite all the citizens who are concerned, and I repeat, it's 190 million. BGN, which the state is trying not to pay them at the moment, I call on all citizens to organize and to protest before the National Assembly, because I am sure that this fraud cannot otherwise be resolved. She's doing it on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Procedure? Please come in for another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am taking this procedure to express my indignation and sharp disagreement against the careless, most euphemistically speaking, the behaviour of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Zaharieva, who, in my opinion, shows too careless attitude towards a procedure for the control of the legislative and executive powers laid down in the Constitution and detailed in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. For three months we have asked questions that do not find their answer, and therefore I call on you, Mr President, to encourage it to be more regular at these meetings, firstly, because it makes our work much less meaningful because the questions are already losing their current character, and, secondly, its behaviour is yet another element of this policy or rather of this visible erosion of the National Assembly institution. Please call her to come more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Let's move on to the agenda. We begin with questions asked to Mr. Radev, Minister of the Interior. First is the asking by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov and the National Representative Diana Savateva on prevention and countering the spread of drugs among adolescents. Mrs. Sawateva will develop the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! There is no doubt that countering drug distribution is among the priorities of the Ministry of Interior and this has been repeatedly highlighted. Selling is directly related to the use of drugs, and in this sense this cannot be a priority and task of just one office. There are dozens of cases of drug dealers being detained near educational institutions for a reason in police journals. There is another alarming trend that has been observed over the past few years.. in police chronicles more and more often there are cases of drivers who have been detained not only after drinking but also after using drugs. In most cases, these are young people between the ages of 20 and 30, who literally yesterday were students, were in school yesterday and most likely went after drugs for the first time then and continued to do so as adult citizens. We have to admit that countering drug distribution cannot really be just a priority of the Ministry of Interior, because prevention is a major part of this countermeasure and other departments should be involved here, but there is no way that their involvement should not be with the assistance of the Ministry of Interior, as an institution, as a ministry, which is most clear and in depth knows the problem. In this sense, our question is aimed at this: Mr. Minister, can you tell us what are the latest trends in the distribution of drugs as types, mode of distribution, intensity and what is the concept of the Ministry of Interior for countering the distribution of children and young people in school age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u80	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, dear Mr. Boychev! You are right, of course, this is a priority in the work of the Ministry of Interior, especially the distribution of drugs among children. What's the big picture? In the last few years, including 2017, there is no single centralised drug market in the country, there is no monopoly of highly prominent, prominent leaders, characteristic of the recent past, and there is no territorial distribution of the drug market. The distribution of drugs on the territory of Bulgaria follows the trends of European drug markets, and the volume is already much smaller. Mostly, several types of narcotics are distributed, cannabis, stimulants, cocaine, amphetamines, ecstasy, and drugs, morphine, heroin, methadone, and others. The highest market share is cannabis or marijuana followed by amphetamines. The heroin and cocaine market is shrinking. The leader in use is marijuana. It is distributed as cigarettes, balls or sticky doses. The growing use of cannabis and favourable natural conditions are a motivation for its cultivation in some areas of Bulgaria. There are also attempts to produce in adapted premises. After marijuana, amphetamines are distributed mostly on the local market as a substance in small bags or tablets, as well as amphetamines in significantly larger quantities. The mass distribution is in nightclubs and during large concerts. The slight decline in the use of some traditional drugs is offset by dynamic changes in the synthetic drug market, as well as the rapid onset and use of new psychoactive substances. There is a trend of use and sale of new psychoactive substances, so-called designer drugs, which lead to intoxication and often fatal outcome. The annual report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, submitted in 2017, identified in particular the continuing availability of new synthetic drugs and the increasing number of deaths following their use. In 2016 alone, 60 new types of psychoactive substances were identified. How is drug proliferation countered by the Ministry? A large number of drug-related crimes are part of latent crime. The perpetrators of drug crimes in 2017 were mainly in the 18-year-old age group, that is, about 57% of all of the perpetrators, the perpetrators in school age below 14 years, respectively, are about 0,3%, and between 14 and 17-year-olds are 13% of all of the perpetrators of drug crimes. Police authorities of the Ministry of Interior plan and implement various measures to counter the spread and use of narcotics. A police work programme with schools has been developed and specific objectives related to the prevention of children at school age have been met. The development of models for safe conduct and the creation of positive attitude towards the police and its activities in this area. Meetings and lectures shall be held in educational institutions, paying particular attention to the use of drugs and their harm. In 2017 in order to prevent the use of drugs, tobacco and alcohol have been printed and distributed, I have said it another time from this tribune, over 400,000 brochures. In relation to prevention and crossing the distribution of drugs in the areas around the schools in particular, meetings are held with the directors of educational institutions to coordinate joint actions and increase security in the areas of these educational institutions. People with questionable behaviour around schools are observed, constant contacts with representatives of educational institutions are maintained in order to notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in a timely and systematic manner in cases of drug crime. Special police operations are carried out throughout the country related to ensuring the security of children in educational institutions and in public places in order to limit criminal offences by and against them. In carrying out police checks, juveniles, drug dealers, minors, drug users, shall be monitored, of course, drinking, entertainment establishments, especially those close to educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Savateva, come in, you have the opportunity for two supplementary questions to Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, what you said as a trend regarding the spread that in recent years the element of organisation has been significantly reduced and there are no such large organized criminal groups that act in this direction is definitely a positive trend. Along with that, of course, there are still a lot of unresolved problems. Naturally, and when asking the question, I clarified that there is no way the Ministry of Interior could be the only organisation, the only ministry and a structure at all to deal with countering the spread, but it has a leading role. It is clear that heroin in recent years has become an exotic rarity, but along with this, the invading of new drugs is extremely dangerous. You yourself said 60 new psychoactive substances were registered. For example, last summer in the Burgas region there were many cases of aggression after the use of synthetics. I wouldn't list them, but at Prima Vista, any one of us could name at least five of them. According to psychiatrists and psychologists, the new drugs metaphorically fried the brain and destroyed the personality, so my first supplementary question is: is there, is there a more intensive distribution of the new synthetic drugs, which is very often prepared by the so-called chefs, and is not really known exactly what it contains, is there, are there any trends of the distribution of this type of new drugs in some regions of the country? My second supplementary question, although you have answered in part, is: can you share successful practices for good interaction of the Ministry of Interior with other institutions in terms of countering the spread and use of drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u84	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, dear Mr. Boychev, it is, for the zoning and distribution of the current modern is that they are sold over the Internet. It's a trend, we're following it with the Directorate-General for Organized Crime. There we are very active, along with the activity, of course, of these distributors. Designer drugs are the focus of our attention. I stressed that there is a general reduction, but in large cities is the opposite and one of them is Burgas, especially around tourist resorts. I want to give an example here. As we passed with our colleagues during the analyses, which made the various regional departments of the Ministry of Interior, I will not forget one.. I cannot remember exactly the village, but he is mayor of a small village, and he expressed himself this way: I am returning from abroad. I think he said Spain has been a long time, now he is a mayor, elected and said I did not believe that when I returned to Bulgaria, in this small village I will deal with designer drugs as mayor. How do they know that? This is the first time I've heard it. It's a small town, designer drugs! The guy was just surprised. If it's about a city, as you mentioned in Burgas, there's obviously a place for them to go even across the sea or so, but he resented it. So I can't add much to the zoning, but what I told you about the Internet is the focus of our attention. The other question was, who are we interacting with? There is a National Center of Drug Addiction, the Focus Center of Drug Addiction at the Ministry of Education and Science and last but not least with the Customs Agency. We work very well. Other times, I have exported numbers from this tribune and have said what is happening with the fight against drugs, but this battle, which we are carrying out together with the Customs Agency, is perhaps the most important in the fight against drugs and especially with these new types of drugs over 60, as there are not so many specialists on them as well. Now we have a meeting with our American partners this month during the Presidency in our country. We were there at the end of last year. There I heard from them, and my colleagues, who were from the professional leadership, about new drugs that flooded the United States of America, and we prepare a little bit in advance for them. They'll probably get to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I thank you, Mr. Radev, for pointing out the trend of distribution, especially the new drugs across the Internet, because this is a trend that is really worrying and knows no geographical boundaries. Obviously, we need to work in countering this direction, which is quite difficult and requires better knowledge of new technologies by many of the people who work in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Besides, I kind of want to replicate you. Although the organisation was not as highlighted as it was seven years ago, eight years ago, however, in the last two years, including last summer, several organized criminal groups were broken down. I remember in particular that in June an organized criminal group was broken down. I mean in the Burgas region and its investigation was taken over by the Special Prosecutor's Office, which is actually a positive fact, because in the end, when there are problems, they should be placed on the table and looking for their solution. Although in smaller quantities, in much smaller limits, organisation in some way continues to function. In my opinion, it is important to think in another direction about the possibility of performing drug tests on children who are in school age. Such a practice was introduced in Burgas a few years ago, including studies among the students themselves, to see what the trends in distribution are. A large part of them said they could get drugs in the school district. This is information that is helpful and helps the Ministry of Interior to act more adequately. I'd give another example. I think that the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Burgas is working very successfully with a non-governmental organization, which also has a structure in Sofia. This is the Reto Association, which is actually dealing with former drug addicts, if I may say so, who work and help themselves to overcome this dependence, but this can be done in partnership and in coordination with both the municipalities and the Ministry of Interior. I hope that the Ministry of Interior will have a more active position on the idea of drug tests, because it can hardly be achieved if we do not have the support of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. The next question is from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov on the activities of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior on the territory of Krushari Municipality, Dobrich District. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, during a reception day in our capacity as MPs, citizens of the municipality of Krushari shared their concerns that there is no permanent police presence in the whole municipality. The municipality of Krushari includes 19 settlements located in a territory of nearly 418 sq. km, which represents almost 9% of the territory of Dobrich district. In this regard is our question to you, Mr. Minister, and it is the following: with what personnel resources does the Ministry of Interior perform its tasks in the territory of Krushari municipality and is it secured with sufficient police presence to ensure the peace, safety and security of citizens in the municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Yankov! Krushari division in the structure of the Ministry of Interior is at the Second Regional Government, it is responsible for it, Dobrich municipality, at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. The division serves the territory of the municipality of Krushari km, as you said, 19 settlements and a population just below 5,000. State of Krushari has 7 posts: one division chief, one police inspector and five junior police inspectors. Six employees are currently employed in the Krushari precinct: one division chief, police inspector and four police inspectors. There are five micro-regions in the precinct, which are served by territorial police inspectors, junior police inspectors. In order to designate the service area with sufficient police presence, to ensure the peace, safety and security of citizens, the available police staff shall carry out their daily duties and shall, according to the established timetable, carry out reception of citizens in the settlements. According to the operational situation in the dark part of the day, as on holidays and holidays, specialized police operations are planned and conducted with the participation of mixed teams of Security and Road Police. In this way, it aims to effectively counter conventional crime, ensure road safety, prevent individuals from the contingent of interest to the police, and to make visits and contacts with lonely elderly people. In order to monitor the security environment on the territory of the municipality in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Dobrich, an organization was established for visiting settlements on a schedule of mobile groups of senior officials from the Departments of Security and Criminal Police. The same are meeting with local authorities and the population to identify local security problems and search for solutions, especially and especially if there are signals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. In your presentation, you mentioned the answer of 4 April 2018, stating that police officers carrying out surveillance on the territory of Krushari Municipality are six in number, one chief, one police inspector and four junior inspectors. When asking the question, I mentioned the area of the municipality. However, the people who live on the territory of the municipality of Krushari, according to the site of the municipality, are 7500. Check your information. To the north, the municipality of Krushari borders on the Republic of Romania is also a fact you should have mentioned. I make these details to give you an idea of both the territory and the inhabitants of the municipality. The information I presented to you raises serious concerns in view of what large territory these six employees should cover, which I repeat, is 418 sq. km and is a border zone with the Republic of Romania. On the territory of the municipality of Krushari is also situated the Border-Severniak (Northern). That raises a lot of questions. Do you, as the head of this office, have a vision to provide a 24-hour police presence, as well as an increase in the state of police officers in the Ministry of Interior, given the repeated signals we receive from citizens alerting us to the lack of a continuous 24-hour presence of police officers? The citizens expect this from us and from you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Iankov, Mr. Krushari, Mr. Dobrich By order of the Prime Minister, I met with the mayors, including the mayors. And in Varna, I wasn't in Dobrich. But I promise you, if you're interested in this, I'll check there next time. But in most places, I didn't hear any comments about the presence. I'm talking about those more than 1,000 police officers with constant presence in all the settlements, so our program started, and further down goes the sentence: that we will carry out our future work then we said when the Programme and government management began so we would distribute people that there would be mobile groups everywhere, or then we said a presence. Then we decided to have cell phone groups. Everyone fills out an information card where and when he was, what signals he received and so on. I will personally check what is going on in Dobrich when you say that there is some tension or lack of 24-hour presence, as you have said. Whether this 24-hour presence should be there or not, however, that is decided by the professional management. I'm just confirming these plans. I accept your note, but remember that I have repeatedly shown an interactive map of Bulgaria with darker and brighter spots. I remember that the regions of Varna and Burgas are especially dark, as well as of Sofia. The brightest are Smolyan, Kardjali. For Dobrich, there was no such thing. I will pay special attention to Krushari, since you as the MP have some remarks from your meetings with local citizens. I will certainly do what is necessary, but I am telling you the picture, as the Minister sees it and how the information about this region reaches me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u96	If you call for the checks, we'll come too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u97	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u98	I think we've come to a rational decision. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Alexander Siddy about another domestic incident in the village of Rozino. Here you are, Mr. Siddy, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u99	Dear Minister, in my reception of a MP, I received numerous signals of disorderly conduct in the village of Rozino, the municipality of Karlovo. Weekly reports of beatings and scandals. I remind you that three years ago there was a murder and half a year ago there was a beating on forest workers. Over the past month, there have been several heavy beatings, the last one from last week. After the beating in Asenovgrad from last summer, a district police station was built in the neighborhood, which greatly helped calm the tensions there. A regional police station was also built in one of the gypsy neighborhoods of Plovdiv, which also helps order. I therefore ask you the following questions: First, does the Ministry of Interior foresee the uncovering of an additional police station in the village of Rozino, where people from the Gypsy ethnicity live mostly and there are daily domestic crimes? Secondly, what measures will the Ministry of Interior take to ensure the tranquility of the residents of the municipality of Karlovo, especially after the murder three years ago in the village of Rosino and after the beating of forest officials and the frequent clashes there? Thirdly, could the technicality control of drivers' motor vehicles be increased without driving licences, with books taken for violation or after the use of alcohol and other tranquilizers, as such violations are mass among the population of the gypsy neighborhoods in the municipality of Karlovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u100	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Siddy! The village of Rozino is part of the territory of the district management of Karlovo, and has a section of the police department in Sopot city. Currently there is a reception room in the village building used by the local police officer of the territorial police. Since the beginning of 2017, 25 crimes of a general nature have been registered on the territory of the village of Rozino. Currently, 22 of them have been discovered. On 10 November 2017, a meeting was held between the management of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Plovdiv and the mayors of the settlements from the service territory, including the village of Rozino, on issues concerning domestic crime in Roma communities. According to the analysis of the criminogenic environment in the territory of the settlements with predominantly Roma population, the need to build an independent reception room in the village of Rozino can be considered. The municipality of Karlovo has stated readiness for assistance, discussing the appropriate location of its positioning, ways and forms of financing of the project. In relation to countering criminal crime and improving the road safety you have addressed, additional forces and funds from different structural units of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior are given monthly in the territory of Karlovo. Since November 2017, an organization has been established in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of Plovdiv for the monthly formation of mobile teams of police officers from the Department of Security and Criminal Police. On a visit to the respective locality, mobile teams are hosting citizens and meeting with representatives of the local authorities. The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv held workshops with representatives of the local authorities from the municipality of Karlovo and local committees on public order and security, discussing opportunities for building a video surveillance system. Police operations are regularly planned to improve traffic control in the region of Karlovo, as well as in small settlements such as Hristo Danovo, Slatina, Rosino and others. An improved traffic situation for 2017. The analysis carried out shows that compared to 2016 there was a decline of 4 car crashes, injured road users with 38 and registered heavy road crashes. For the reported good performances also contributes the fact that in 2017, new service vehicles equipped to carry out checks on drivers as well as their testing for the use of alcohol and other tranquilizers were assigned to the district management. Staff members of the Department of Transport in Karlovo are also actively involved in the control under the Road Traffic Act. 568 acts have been drawn up for 2017. In the light of the above in 2017, acts for the identification of administrative infringements are drawn up as follows: for the found technical malfunctions of.87 pieces, for the iniquities of drivers, for the iniquities of drivers. 196 pieces, smoking during management. 31 pieces, for the use of alcohol or other tranquilizer. 112 pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u103	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer and for your statistics. Despite the efforts I am convinced that the Ministry of Interior is doing, unfortunately, there is no way for the population to be re-educated because they continue daily and weekly beatings in the gypsy neighborhood. For now they are fighting each other, but from time to time there are more mass melets that are the reason for this issue. I hope the Ministry will be able to take timely action before it comes to another death there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u104	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Siddy! I only took the floor to complete something important. You're saying they can't be re-educated. I don't agree with you. All citizens of our society can be re-educated or at least with the repressive apparatus of the Ministry of Interior to be forced to comply with the laws. Something very important, related to the Gypsy ethnicity, the government has a very successful mechanism through the Ministry of Education and Science over 22 thousand. Roma children have already been introduced to the class. The responsibility you're asking me about and holding me responsible right now is not just the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We show up at the finish line. Before that, there's local power. Let them do what they have to do. I mentioned only one way to help with cameras. Pour it all over the place! There is a village in Burgas region. They say, "We've put the cameras on crime zero." And that's only for three years! To do something like that. Put up cameras and film everyone who breaks the law. For our colleagues there will then be very easy to reveal them by going to the places where they should be and not to continue to do what you say. This mechanism is very important. We support the government and personally the Minister of Education and Science. We're still working on it. I repeat, we appear at the end, but before that many institutions have to do their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Request for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. JORDAN JORDANOV (OP): Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Minister! Today, May 11th, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church honors the Holy Equal Apostles brothers Cyril and Methodius. The earliest preserved memory of their memory is from the 12th century and in our new history the first celebration was in 1851 in the city of Plovdiv at the initiative of Nayden Gerov. A few years later, in 1863, May 11 was also established for a church holiday. This is the date which during the years of the Bulgarian Revival became first a school and then a universal celebration expressing the aspirations for enlightenment, for the church and national independence of the Bulgarian people. The importance of the work of the holy brothers is written much and will continue to be written. The fact remains that almost 12 centuries later the memory of them does not only fade but, on the contrary, more people in Bulgaria and around the world pay their due respect. How many of us and people of our time will remember in two, three generations, and for 12 centuries?! But when we talk about the two Solonian brothers, they remain timeless, who received their recognition as creators of the verb and because of the numerous trained students, one of whom Kliment Ohridski, later created the Cyrillic, named after Cyril. They are canonized for saints from the church for the translation and popularization of the Bible in the Old Slavonic language and the spread of Christianity. In 1980, Pope John Paul II declared them saints, patrons of Europe. On the same Apeninian peninsula where they are declared saints, Constantine-Cyril Philosopher in his life in the talk against the trilinguals stood up to the Latin clergy, supporting the theory of the three sacred languages of Christianity, Jewish, Latin, and Greek, and declared to them: "Is God not sending rain equally to all? Doesn't the sun also shine on everyone? And don't we all breathe the same air? How are you not ashamed by recognizing only three languages and by ordering all other nations and tribes to be blind and deaf? Happily at the beginning of the 21st century things changed. With Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, the Cyrillic alphabet becomes the third alphabet within the Union, after Latin and Greek. The Bulgarian language was accepted as official. It is now up to us and only to preserve for future generations what is bequeathed to us by the two brothers and their disciples. Because in the beginning it was the word! But it is doomed to doom if there are no letters to remember it forever for generations to come. From this perspective, as a people living from the Danube to the White Sea and from Ohrida to the Black Sea, no one can take away the contribution of the Solonian brothers and their disciples to world civilization. This is also the calling and challenge that stands before us, the MPs of the United patriots. Today 300 million people around the world write in Cyrillic and make the work of Cyril and Methodius and their disciples exist forever. Deep bow, Bulgarian enlighteners, and happy holiday! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u107	We continue with questions to Minister Radev. The next question is asked by the MP Todor Bajchev. It is about the scope of the activities of the staff at the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior and the opportunities for using their expertise and skills against football hooligans.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Fellow MPs, football is a beautiful game which, unfortunately, is accompanied by quite ugly scenes and this is becoming more and more saturated as a trend. What happened at the last game, and the children who were painted with swastikas, with obscene inscriptions, Nazi greetings, all of this is criminalized and has it in the Penal Code. On the other hand, in a number of foreign sites Bulgaria is advertised as a country in which football firms can set up battle tournaments among themselves and measure forces, unfortunately. All this repels fans of football, worries parents to leave their children alone to go to football games and repels the children themselves from sports. Instead of making them play sports, we make them watch from the TV screen or we point them to another direction. Therefore, I would like you to tell me: how do you use the resources of the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior in escalating the tensions of football matches? One of the last was injured by two police officers, one of whom was a woman in the eye? Do you use instructions specifically from the specialists at the Institute during the period of investigation from the beginning until now? What actions have you taken on the recommendation of social and crisis psychologists working at the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior, respectively, for targeted work with the citizens, as well as for anti-crisis intervention of police officers? My question to you is: what is the scope of action of the personnel of the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior and the opportunities for using their expertise and skill against football hooligans?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, the scope of the Institute of Psychology, as you have expressed yourself, realizes the following main activities. I will try to synthesize them: prepare personal and behavioural analysis of operational-interesting persons and conduct criminal-psychological research to assist the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior; prepare psychological and judicial psychological expertise; conduct mediation and psychological interventions in crisis management, endangering national security, public order, security and life of citizens; carry out, in the next place, psychological prophylaxis, individual, family and organizational counseling; carry out stress management activities after critical incidents; carry out specialised psychological training and training; carry out organisational and empirical psychological studies; conduct individual psychodiagnostic studies; create, finally, adapts and introduces new methodologies, criteria and standards for individual and organisational psychodiagnostics. One of the priorities in the work of the Institute is preventive activity. It is obvious that well-prepared, theoretically and practically policemen, who are also in good mental condition, deal more effectively in their work, with their tasks, and with overcoming working stress. For 2017 the Institute has received training 7312 employees, conducted 3415 individual psychological consultations and preventive lectures, organized psychological consulting in 8 structures of the Ministry. The Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior carries out stress management activities following critical incidents, as I stressed, with citizens in cases of disasters, accidents, floods, people who have declared suicidal intentions. With the staff of the Ministry of Interior involved in critical incidents, psychological interventions, diffusion, demobilization and debriefing are mandatory up to 72 hours after the accident, as well as crisis interventions following those in the time period. The purpose of the applied procedures is to overcome the manifestations of acute stress and prevention of post-traumatic stress disorder. In the process of realization is the Project for expanding the expert capacity of the employees of the Ministry of Interior for prevention of aggressive events in society, corruption and radicalisation. In the framework of the project activities, there is a study of about 800 uniformed employees to study aggression in the context of police work, in tense and conflicting situations. Based on the results a training programme, materials and next stage are planned activities under the Project, providing for interactive training of over 6000 police officers. As I mentioned, the activities are directed two ways not only at employees, but also at those who have suffered from accidents. I'm reminiscent of the bus turning around. There were psychologists who spoke to police officers, but also to relatives who were involved or witnessed the incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I listened carefully to Minister Radev. What struck me is that the work of the Institute is directed more towards the employees of the Ministry of Interior and the victims and less towards prevention. You rightly noted that personal and behavioral analysis of operational-interesting individuals is being done, and I think that the efforts should be directed in this direction in order to prevent it. I would also add a statement from you that I share your view that there is no need for a specialized law on football hooliganism, as hooliganism in general is criminalized in our Penal Code and in the Anti-Little Bullying Act. Based on the recommendations of specialists from the Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of Interior, the current measures and codifying norms can be changed in the direction that, in addition to educating and preventing them from acting and preventively on so-called football hooligans or on this part of the society, which, instead of having fun at football matches, goes, destroys and vandalizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Baychev! I took the floor to fill in a few things, because in three minutes you can't say everything. Of course, I stressed that prevention is very important! The people who work at the Institute are very well prepared and from them their structure is such in all Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. Football hooliganism became a special focus of their attention after the derby that was mentioned were injured two police officers, especially the policewoman, who, at least for now, has a problem with one eye. I hope everything goes well. What you've been saying all this time, thank you for asking me this question and pointing your attention to this point, you are actually emphasizing confidence in the Ministry of Interior. And we're burdening the Institute with expectations almost as big as we should be. Yes, he is addressing the employees and perhaps two thirds of his work or half of his work I have not calculated exactly is working with the employees to better work with the citizens, to be more appropriate to situations. Along with that, I stressed that they are working with others with those who are on the field, including football hooligans. Let us not expect that they will improve or make these hooligans less. There is no way we can help, since society, I sum up simply, all the institutions in the chain have not helped and in the end we almost re-emphasize them. I agree with you that this was an extreme measure, and we will make sure that the police there do not appear and then MPs will not ask me questions about football hooliganism if it is carried out on the football field, except in extreme cases when the police will come inside, of course. We will only take care of public order, which is outside the territory of football stadiums or not to say only about football, the police appear at sports events if there are violations of public order. Then your questions will be well addressed to us. For now, of course, they're still right, because that's the way the law is, but, as you said, you agree, hopefully we don't need that law anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before we move on to the next questions, there is a request for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, Mrs. Nino. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One year passed by the government of Borisov and last week we assessed his work. I think there is no need for me to dwell on it again today, as people can best judge how they live, and the findings are no longer enough, there is no need for them. Today I would like to offer you a different look at this one year: could it have been different, could Bulgaria have developed another way and the people have lived a little better? You could have! I'll introduce you to how this was going to happen. It could have been if those 31 Bills of BSP for Bulgaria were adopted during this one year, which represented a different policy. Here's how: health care policy. We could have saved state and municipal hospitals from closing or bankruptcy, and it would have cost Bulgaria 500 million. lv. This is another health policy. We could have conducted a different policy with regard to children and young families because of the scary demographic crisis we are in, if you had accepted, esteemed managers, to deduct up to 50 BGN. to a child monthly from the total income tax due to working parents. We were going to help a million children and it would cost the state 300 million. lv. We could have helped 38 200 children if we had increased the monthly money compensation for raising a child from one to two years to the minimum wage amount of BGN 510. That would have cost the state 78 million. lv. We could have helped with the demographic crisis by expanding the aid for the beginning of the school year and for students from low income families for the second, third and fourth grade. The state would be in help and care for nearly 40,000 children and pay for it 30 million. lv. from the budget. Could we have had a different policy with regard to socially weak people? Yes, if you had accepted the BSP Bill to double the scope of energy aid by another 250 thousand households and would have cost 90 million. lv. the budget. Could we be different in our attitude toward older people? Yes, if you had accepted the proposal for the BSP Bill to update pensions and reduce the differences between old and newly granted pensions, it would have cost us 810 million. BGN, but it would have affected all the pensioners and helped them live a little more dignified. We could have had a different policy in terms of education, science and culture if you had accepted our proposal to increase the budget for higher education and science by 95 million. lv. We would have helped young research scientists with the amounts I represent; we could have cared about the education, education and culture of young people in Bulgaria if you had voted for a check for cultural events worth 200 BGN. for every young man who's 18 years old. Forty thousand young people would watch Bulgarian cinema, read Bulgarian books, go to a library, to a community center and it would cost a budget of 8 million. lv. If you had accepted the alternative, honourable Members, for this year we would have had basic state education standards; the state funding of private schools would have been exhausted; the rule would have been introduced: a textbook in one class for one subject; we would have restored the technicians we need because of vocational education; students and doctoral students would have more easily received training credits; there would have been state regulation in terms of the quality and origin of food and in the retail chains would have been sold Bulgarian food. Bulgaria would have an effective body to fight corruption, not the one whose goal is now to cover corruption, and not by this law, which in one month you change twice. Texts about petty crime would have dropped out and people in villages probably less would have suffered from domestic crime. The treatment facilities of the commercial companies with more than 50% state or municipal participation in capital would be included in the sites prohibited from privatisation and not on your list prepared for privatisation. The vicious practice of companies with obligations mainly to the National Agency for Revenues and Workers' wages to be transferred to underprivileged and socially weak citizens would have been terminated; the problem of white and black spots in the use of agricultural land and so on would have been solved. Thirty-one bills that express different policies, and this year could have been different. I want to break four myths that you keep repeating this year, not to mention honest lies. That's how. First, the BSP is a loud opposition that does not offer anything. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Facts: 31 bills that express policies other than your.. specific policies, proposals and laws. The second myth: The right ones collect money, pay the debts of the left parties, and the left ones only spend ready money and lead to financial instability. Here's how, fellow Members, this happens. Duty. Who's collecting debts? [[Replications from the MPs Toma Bikov and Stanislav Ivanov.]] In 2009, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The end of the socialist governance, the mandate of the Socialists, 9 million debt; 2017, after eight years of management of Boyko Borisov, nearly 25 million debt. Official stats! Who collects debts...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u117	A billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u118	A billion, yeah. I accept the note. Who collects debts at this speed and this size? How do you spend money? Who spends more and for what? Look at the slide, guys. If you had adopted the policies that we have proposed this year, 1 billion. 911 million. would have been spent on policies that would have helped the lives of 3 million 632 thousand and 500 Bulgarians. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] In 2017, not by means of policies, not in the legal way, through the budget, but by over 120 decrees of the Council of Ministers in one year, one hundred twenty times a month, Borisov distributed 1.7 billion. lv. Can anyone tell me what and how many Bulgarians you helped with this money? [[Relations, excitement.]] Yes, I dare you! One of you to become like me and list: we gave 1.7 billion. for seniors, young scientists, children, young families...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u119	What about teachers' salaries?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u120	I'm sure none of you know what Borisov spent a billion and seven hundred on. [[GERB lines.]] That's who's spending money and how! Who's collecting debts, who's making expenses! The next myth, the BSP, offers these things only when it is in opposition, and when it rules, it gives up on them. The facts. The way we propose updating all pensions today and recalculating, in exactly the same way, this was done in 2008 when BSP managed. The children and their commitment to the minimum wage, as we proposed this year, was absolutely the same in 2007. Energy aid, increasing the scope of the socially weak to receive energy aid, as we proposed this year, was done in the same way in 2006. Relieved interest on loans to young scientists, PhD students, which is what we wanted to do right now. 2008 I can go on like this, point by point, but I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u121	The Commission shall adopt
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u122	Here's the third lie you've been repeating all year, which is disproven by the facts and by the truth. The fourth myth: there is no alternative to GERB. They're unique, irreplaceable.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u123	Thank you, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u124	I think from what I've said so far, you've seen it. There's an alternative! Here it is in effect, in legislation. But from the alternative, it is more important that there are policies for six large companies that are close to power, policy for small and medium-sized enterprises; instead of the Development Bank giving a dark and hidden credit to Ginka Varbakova for CEZ, to buy it for you, would help small and medium-sized enterprises; instead of bankrupting public and municipal hospitals - health policy; instead of replacing the content of Bulgarian textbooks and clearing authentic Bulgarian authors, we would have a consistent educational policy linked to the economy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Instead of genocide against the Bulgarian pensioners, they would have recalculated pensions and a slightly more dignified lifestyle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u125	Because you stole them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u126	Don't miss the last one. We would have given even the slightest gesture of justice if you had agreed to cut your salaries and freeze them, like what Polish colleagues did yesterday. But you didn't do that either, guys. Therefore, our task, of the BSP for Bulgaria, is to give our people an opportunity to choose one or the other, and this is what we do and the people to decide what they choose. [[The President reminds us that the time has passed.]] I believe that very soon such a choice will have to be made and I believe in the mind and heart of the Bulgarian people that it will ask for a change of life and a change for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u127	Thank you. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group Here you are, Mr. Markov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I respect the declaration of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. It is the right of the opposition to give its alternatives. I treat Mrs. Ninova personally. However, she is the chairman of a party that is second in parliamentary elections, although four times in a row lost elections from GERB, because the comrades and comrades from Europe are from third place backwards. It is therefore good for GERB to have such a strong opposition. I followed your congress very closely last year, in which you gave some very difficult conclusions about the government as a whole, about the prime minister mostly in foreign and domestic politics. In foreign policy you said: "He leads a chaotic policy, goes only to take pictures, to make a cheap PR, plays the role of a Mediator and returns quietly to Bulgaria. From these findings it is only true that Borisov comes quietly. Modest is the man, modesty beautifies the man! [[Applause from GERB.]] Thirty years of democracy! Who is the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who on the 30th day was adopted within 48 hours by the Chancellor of Germany and the President of France who rule Europe? Why do they have to rule? That's another topic. I'd be in it sometime. When he was going down the stairs in Germany, he was not greeted by the photo "Papakochev" to take his picture and return, and Mrs Merkel said: "Dear Boyko!" Dear Boyko doesn't tell every prime minister. When did the French president accept a Bulgarian prime minister, after a month he was in Bulgaria and tell him: "Mon sherry, I am here because of this, among other things, that we are friends."! Is Borisov a Mediator? Last June, he went to Erdogan one of the strongest statesmen at the moment, with the strongest army in Europe, and the Turkish president is confessing to him: "Boyko, they wanted to kill me." He makes Congress GERB and receives an hourly telegram: "Your choice as head of GERB is a guarantee for our friendship." There is nothing more important for Bulgaria than good relations with Turkey, because the European Union has commissioned, for an evil fate, Turkey to protect not only Bulgaria but also Europe. And Borisov managed to hold a meeting with Erdogan, European Union. For the first time in 30 years of democracy, Bulgarian Prime Minister managed to create a Balkan or Varna Four with Romania's Prime Minister, Serbia's Prime Minister and Communist Tsipras, so that on July 3rd when Li Kutzian came here, we could come up with common Balkan projects. When did this happen? In braces, should I say that the housekeeping of silk, of the Chinese Prime Minister, was not easy? It was in competition with the Czech Republic and Croatia. Bulgaria took it. The Treaty with Macedonia. Thank you for your support! Borisov could have gotten away with it by saying: "Lord, you who are currently ruling Macedonia have lost the election party, you are ruling because the Albanian party has turned the pancake around. "Something like Oresharski has reached his consensus, we are not in a hurry. Yet he gave them a hand, showed government. Last night I was watching TV again Merkel and Macron, and she said to him: "Bravo, Boyko! That's what the German Chancellor tells you. You did it. It is historical and its history writes GERB and Boyko Borisov because we brought them here. [[Applause from GERB.]] And a statement will be signed. Integration may not be quick, but it has to start! And where does it start? From Sofia. Whose household? To the one who won four parliamentary elections in Bulgaria, named Borisov, and twice as a governor. It's very difficult in a Balkan country to win elections as a ruling, it's easier to be an opposition. You say: "In slavery was Bulgaria and again at the convention. GERB enslaved us? Why didn't the president release us? He's in charge, isn't he? By the way, he's your president. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, but with a directly elected head of state. GERB, because of the lousy electoral law, which the Bulgarian people rejected only 500 thousand. people voted for him, fourth time he rules, and he has to rule in a coalition. If the elections were entirely majority or mixed, the result would be Ala Orban or almost. Manages in coalition, with a coalition of three parties, last time in coalition with 5 and 6 and GERB is open to the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Let's let Mrs. Ninova take over this high office. This was also done to Mr. Mikov. But look at the facts: Maya Manolova, your blade, the inspirational of the Kostinbrod affair, ombudsman of Bulgaria, good Ombudsman; Evgeni Tanchev the son of Petar Tanchev, the old nomenclature, adviser to President Parvanov in Luxembourg lawyer. Tens of thousands of euros! So can't Sasho Gerov go there too?! But send Tanchev. Now your presidential candidate Kalfin and he's headed far up to go. Is he gonna be head of OLAF? If it's possible, whenever a Bulgarian can head something, I'd be happy. GERB overflows with tolerance. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As for the economic indicators, the World Bank recently gave them a rise of 3.9 this year, 4 growth next year. It's good that you give alternatives, that's your job. I understand that Mrs. Ninova is uncomfortable to put the ball back because she was not then the leader of the BSP and could not bear responsibility, but you are not a newly established party. After November 10th, you had a unique chance - the only party from the former socialist countries, which 1990 won the elections with an absolute majority for the Grand National Assembly. Nobody bothers you and wants to. Manage, do these things, 1990 to push like Hungarians, Poles and Czechs. You made the lucan winter. The second time the absolute majority is a second historical chance. I was a constitutional judge, $3 paycheck! Then came the coalition of Mr. Stanishev, who brought GERB. She gave birth to Boyko portions, works, nothing, timeless. And Boyko from a lonely player, a lone runner, became a favorite in the European Union and a member of the EPP. [[Applause from GERB.]] Finally came Oresharski as a lid. He only went to Vietnam, with all due respect to the Vietnamese people, who are developing very well economically, to open a restaurant. Total isolation of Bulgaria! You say: "There will be a vote." Well there will be a vote, next year there will be European elections, GERB will be preparing to win them. Then there'll be locals. This will be the vote of the Bulgarian voter, but it seems to me that this momentum that we have from the European Presidency, this momentum... He says: "Now they will land here 400 Chinese, it will be a madhouse. " - I saw him last year in Budapest. To use this momentum as Bulgarians, to hang on to this train, to enter money in the Balkans, because we very much want these Balkans to become European, but they must first change their mentality that when you enter by car and pass Sobotitsa, start unwashed houses, dirty toilets, homeless dogs and cats, and so on. We, GERB, are proud to give the Balkans an example of political stability. This is also your contribution, in the case of Macedonia. What do we want to be like Romania, to change four times in one year the prime minister; like Serbia, we want to wander between Putin and the European Union, or like Greece, where Tsipras has long been surpassed in the polls by the New Democracy Party? I wish you success as an opposition! We are proud of this government and will continue to support it. Thanks! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u129	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to how the two declarations took place. We just heard a lot about the Bulgarian Socialist Party from a right-wing shaman. [[(SIGHS FROM GERB: Eee!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u131	Please, please! Mr. Kutev, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u132	Shaman is a good word for me. It's not a bad word, it's a good word. If you don't know what a shaman is, a shaman is a man who knows more than others. For me, Mr. Markov, with all due respect to him, when I say Shaman, I put only good into it. So a right-wing shaman said a bunch of shit about BSP, and there wasn't a word from there. While before that, when Cornelia Ninova spoke, here two, in the back three, a bunch of people, here now sits and laughs Mr. Ivanov in front of me, Mr. Bikov too. Gorgeous people! What were you doing before that? You yelled like I wouldn't say how.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u133	You kept quiet because Mr. Markov was right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u134	There must be some order in parliament. When you're told something you don't want to hear, you can calmly... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] There you go again. Make a note to him, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u135	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u136	Now, the moment the leader of the opposition spoke, you behaved exactly as you do now. We heard a lot of unpleasant things from Mr. Markov, which I can talk about a lot of things, but we kept quiet. We listened to you carefully, heard what he said with all my remarks to him and to your work, but we had the respect. You didn't have it. It's still the same. Therefore, I am doing this procedure in the manner of conduct: I ask you to introduce some standard! In my opinion, this way of dialogue that we had just now is below the level of parliament, and I hope below your personal level, because I do not believe that you have fallen so low, just emotions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u137	I get it, Mr. Kutev, the remark is with me, I'll deal with it. Please, let's really call off the dialogues from where we are. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The next question is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev regarding the sanitary and hygienic state of the border crossing points. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! During Mr. Markov's statement a moment ago, our question is related to the poor sanitary and hygienic state of the land border crossings along the Bulgarian border and, above all, to Kalotina. In our reception rooms, citizens are constantly coming, who, figuratively speaking, are worried about the fact that foreigners who come to visit form their first impression of the state of land border crossings and it is far from in favor of the state. We are well aware that representatives of at least four institutions are operating on the territory of these points. The Ministry of Internal Affairs through Border Police, Ministry of Finance, Transport, Agriculture. Mr. Minister, our question to you is: are you planning to improve coordination between the above institutions in order to improve the sanitary and hygienic state at these points, and I repeat, above all, Kalotina's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Timchev, Mr. Yordanov and Mrs. Klisarova, the organisation, activity and management of border crossing points located at the internal and external borders, as well as the interaction between the border control services in our country, are defined in the Ordinance of border crossing points adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers May 2002. According to one of the members of this regulation for border crossing points, land estates, buildings and facilities in border crossing points are public government property. According to another member of the same regulatory document, the construction and construction of buildings and facilities in the points areas shall be carried out in consultation with the border control services of the Interdepartmental Border Control Board. There is one, subject to the provisions of another art. Art. 141, Art. 143 of the Law on Structure of the Area, and other regulations in this area. In the exercise of its powers referred to in art. 7 of the Ordinance on Border Control Points, the Director of the Customs Agency, gives instructions on the construction, maintenance and conversion of the building fund, facilities and terrains in the crossing points areas in order to comply with the technological order of work. The Director of the Customs Agency manages land estates to which the checkpoints are built, regulated land properties designated for such points, buildings built on them, as well as technical infrastructure not provided for the management of ministers or directors of other departments for the performance of functions related to the carrying out of border controls. The Customs Agency is responsible for the protection and protection of state property, as well as for the provision of landscaping activities, marking of road infrastructure and cleaning of border crossing points, including public use sites. You stressed that many institutions are involved. The Ministry of Interior and, in particular, the Directorate-General for Border Police, have no authority regarding activities related to organisation and improvement of sanitary status at border crossing points in the country. I only inform you that in November 2017, with the funds of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works then on Kalotina, it is specifically indicated in the inquiry, there is such a thing, new public toilets are installed and operating. The area has a renewed water infrastructure, which solves the problems of water shortages in the first place at least. That's my brief information on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov for a line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u142	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I've been waiting for such an answer. You are legally right, but go to Kalotina, I urge you to see the situation with your heart. I call on you to be the owner of this territory and really understand that this is no way to enter the Western border of Bulgaria, at our entrance and exit to Western Europe. After all, we are in the European Union. He can't go on like this any longer. We are proud that we are a country of the European Union, let us not say what our border crossings are and again I repeat "Kalotina." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u143	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to add to your reply on the occasion of the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Timchev. Colleagues who asked the question, first of all, to thank you again for your confidence in the Ministry of Interior and you treat it to me well, I undertake the commitment to further synchronise our actions with the Ministry of Finance, as it is addressed by the Customs Agency and not only Kalotina. I'm going to the Tower, for example, and now I've just passed there, I've been to Greece, there's a visit to the Presidency, if it's not the same, at least it's about the same, it's probably the same, and if we compare them to Captain Andreevo a little bit better, but there are other problems there, so it's not just the western one. Like you, I wanted to come in here once told me as I passed Captain Andreevo, once upon a time we came from Turkey, we came in and we entered Europe. Now, it seems as if we are going from Bulgaria to Turkey and we are going to Europe and we are going in quotes. I agree, your remark is correct, thank you for pointing your attention here. I make the commitment to talk to the Minister of Finance, see what we can do together and initiate. If I need any new responsibilities, I'm willing to take them over as the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question raised by the National Representative Todor Bajchev. It concerns the number of employees in the Ministry of Interior administration and the state committees led by Minister Radev, executive agencies and other administrative bodies established as independent legal entities. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister Radev, my question to you is provoked by one of your speeches in Vratsa, I think that on 2 April, when you say that in the implementation of the Program, a police officer in every locality has 2800 new employees, with more than 1340 having police functions, meaning the others are not involved or have no police functions. This raises some questions about what is the number of employees in the Ministry of Interior administration and is not the state too large and bloated, and is it not eating part of the salaries of police officers who are directly involved and engaged in preventing and combating crime? It is constantly speculated on the number of employees in the administration of the Ministry of Interior by subordinate departments, including by MPs in the current National Assembly. I think it is important for the public interest to know the total number of employees who do not perform direct police functions, but still serve the public. My question to you is as follows: what is the number of employees in the Ministry of Interior administration and of the state committees, executive agencies and other administrative bodies established as independent legal entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who are not a police authority or bodies under the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, performing activities of the general and specialized administration, according to the Law of Administration, art. 142, para. 1, t. 2 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior are civil servants whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer and persons working in the employment relationship whose status is governed under the terms and conditions of the Labour Code and the Law on the Ministry of Interior. As of 26 April 2018, the total number of employees from the specialized administration was 4611. I have noted that the employees of the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior are also assigned here. The total number of employees of the general administration is 6942, the specialized There are also employees occupying positions for employees working in the employment sector who perform the functions of service staff for the operation of auxiliary activities suppliers of office and warehouses, maintenance of buildings, their adjacent areas, maintenance of internal water supply, sewerage, care of service animals - dogs, horses, we have such in the police, and others. These are the two numbers. I put it together, about 11,500 in total, about 24%. I've got another number of 13,5. I'm trying to get them to calculate the exact number of administration myself. Due to various ways of shaping and recording in the laws what exactly is administration and the different way of accounting the number of administration in other departments, it is difficult to make this comparison so far, but such a task has been assigned and colleagues are doing so.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev, do you have a reply to Mr. Radev's response?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u150	My line will be brief. Mr. Minister, thank you for the correct answer and for the correct numbers. Unfortunately, you are right.. it is confirmed a trend that in Bulgaria, however, as a champion of a number of police officers per capita, we and in the field of administration are emerging as the champion of 24 per cent is almost a quarter. These are people who do not deal directly with the fight against crime. I do not deny the need for administration, including a uniformed one, but we all know that the administration is only aggravating and not helping. I would rather direct you to do a functional analysis of each unit in the system, its suitability and effectiveness, and to draw up a reform plan for the system to be relevant to the National Security Strategy. I think that reformist thinking would suit you even more, that ultimately we are trying to reform this system, which emerges as a rather rigid system and unchangeable one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u151	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, will you complete the reply regarding the line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baichev, yes, thank you for the idea, that's what we do. As soon as I came to the Ministry of Interior, we agreed that we would make such a structural-functioning model first, review this, and if there is a larger administration, we could reduce it, if there is no or less, we could increase it, what would happen at the Ministry at all. Not to use the word reforms, but these changes will be made, we wait for this to happen, I said in the middle of the year. At the moment, we are walking and working on the larger public procurement. We have taken one step, we are waiting and a second, we have the information from the World Bank and this will happen. As I have prepared here one answer I do not see Mr. Stoyan Mirchev who asked me a question. I always say, yes, if there's anything I'm not telling you right now, I'll give it to you in writing. I don't know which one of you to give it to, I'll give it to him. The same thing I promise you, if I do not have to answer here to MPs, I will personally provide you with information on what we have done after work and after completing the work on this structural and functional model. For the administration, I agree with you, but I would like to stress that it is not a bad word We compare ourselves to other countries. Here is the Deputy Prime Minister, he can probably lecture you about the administration and what GERB does. We're doing good there. In the Ministry of Interior in particular and I look forward to completing this work on the structural and functional model, and I promise you I will give you personal additional information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control today. We are moving on to questions that are referred to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. The first of them is a question from the MPs Atanas Tashkov, Alexander Matsurev, Dimitar Ivanov and Hristo Gajev. It is related to the connectivity of the administration in the so-called electronic document turnover. Here you are, Mr. Tashkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! My question, my question and my colleagues' question is about the connectivity of the administration in the so-called electronic document turnover. Dear Mr. Donchev, on the occasion of the comments in the public space regarding the connectivity of the administration in the so-called electronic document turnover and the adopted in the Ordinance on the general requirements for information systems, registers and electronic administrative services deadline from 1 November 2018, I would like to know what rate of development this process is going and what are your expectations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Tashkov, Matsurev, Gechev, Gajev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The issue is undoubtedly timely because, as you mentioned, this year important deadlines are running out, and the most important one is, of course, 1 November 2018. I hope that, apart from today's short parliamentary discussion, you will ask me another question after 1 November this year, so that we can see how the process is finally completed and I hope that all administrations are able to exchange documents electronically. What does the situation look like at the moment, with one clarification, what is the background? The most important document is the Ordinance on general requirements for information systems, registers and electronic administrative services adopted at the end of the previous government mandate, which obliges all administrative authorities to use electronic document-turning systems and to participate in the electronic exchange of documents with other administrations. The same regulation laid down a clear regulation and way of carrying out this exchange, i.e. determined by the President of the State Agency. The follow-up with regard to the regulatory base has also continued within the framework of this mandate. The Council of Ministers, by Decision No 357 of 29 June 2017, obliged the administrative authorities to align their systems for electronic exchange of documents by 1 September 2017 in accordance with the technical protocol. Of course, the exchange of electronic documents is implemented through direct communication between the electronic document systems of the participating administrations. It takes place between participants registered in the so-called administrative register. In addition, the State Agency "Electronic Management" has created and developed the so-called electronic communication exchange system, the so-called EIA as an abbreviation to which all administrative authorities must join. Numbers. To date, a total of 430 applications have been submitted and processed by administrations wishing to join the EIA. At the same time, with the implementation of the regulations and the decision No 357 of the Council of Ministers of last year, 250 administrations at central and local level are already connected to the system as real participants in the electronic exchange of documents. The other administrative authorities are at different stages of preparing their document systems. Opportunity to exchange documents with each other already have all the ministries. It's been a fact for a month and a half. A large part of municipal and regional administrations, in particular 59 central administrations, here we add agencies, committees and 191 territorial administrations to ministries. As a percentage, there are 47% of municipalities in the exchange, that is, slightly less than half, and 75% of regional administrations. Of course, I specify that the process is extremely dynamic and even at the moment I answer your question, perhaps some administration has entered the electronic document system. There is no need to specify how much easier, faster, how much more traceable each action is in such an environment of electronic document turnover. Of course, electronic document systems at the interinstitutional level contain other advantages. They allow in some cases, instead of making the citizen obtain a document from one administration and carry it in another, such a reference to be made electronically, even if there is no digital register available, which is the highest level and the ultimate goal that we aim for. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In addition, the connectivity of electronic document systems is extremely important and I am convinced that all administrations will be able to handle it within the time limit. It's not the only plot, it's not the only purpose. The highest level is complete digitalization of all registers, archives and the creation of an opportunity to access electronically from one administration to another. Only then will we have real working electronic control, but connectivity is also important. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There'll probably be lines and you'll fill in. Here you go, Mr. Tashkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear Mr. Minister! Thank you for the comprehensive answer and the numbers you mentioned. Thank you for the work you've done. I am counting and I have no doubt that you will continue at the same pace as you have expressed yourself until the full digitalization of the processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u159	Will you take an attitude, Mr. Donchev? Yeah. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u160	Dear Mr President, only the short time in the procedure was not enough for me to inform you of some more data, although we are in a transitional period. As I said, according to the regulatory framework, the obligation to complete electronic turnover arises at the end of the year. Despite this transition phase, according to the data provided by 103 participants, only 15 423 were received for April and sent 18 211 documents electronically through the electronic communication exchange system. If this is the beginning, it's promising in any case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u161	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Galya Vasileva, Dimitar Lazarov and Andrian Raykov on the expected pace and priorities regarding the implementation of the operational programmes by the end of the year. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our issue is related to the implementation of the operational programmes during the current programming period "programmes financed by the ESI Funds." I'm starting with a few undisputed facts. The Unified Information Portal shows that more than half are currently agreed, nearly 52% of the funds on the budget of the programmes, and the payouts are nearly 17%, which is a good indicator compared to the previous programming period. The same should be said in comparison with the other Member States, Bulgaria stands well somewhere in the middle in terms of the percentage of implementation. It is important to note that all preconditions have been met and approved by the European Commission, which was a very important test and test for our country. According to audit bodies, management and control systems are sound and functioning well. In terms of the logic of the programming period, this year is a year of negotiation, it is entering an intensive implementation period and the expectations are that payments will increase and we will enter an increasingly mature phase of the programmes. At the same time, it should be noted that 2018 is a key year for the programmes, because next year, through the annual reports, the performance of the indicators achieved at the end of this year will be taken into account, on the basis of which the so-called performance reserve will be allocated. There is also the challenge for the n+3 rule. In this regard, please inform us: what are the expected pace and priorities for operational programmes by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Vasileva, Mrs. Vasileva, Mr. Lazarov, Raykov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mrs. Vasileva, we know best that the rate of payments is not everything, that much more important has the effect of every spent lev or euro. A higher level goal is to maximize the effect and benefit of all money invested. Of course, the numbers are also important, as far as the funds that are paid out and agreed are updated in real time and everyone can make a reference to www.eufunds.bg, in the section ISN. The subtext of the issue is rather an analysis of the situation compared to the others, compared to Bulgaria in the previous programming period and possible forecast of trends. With regard to the issue you have raised regarding the situation, the expected pace and priorities regarding the implementation of the operational programmes by the end of the year, I would like to inform you that the agreed funds by the end of April are more than 56% of the budget of the programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds. The funds actually paid are over 19%. If we look only at the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund programmes, the agreement is nearly 60% of the budget of the programmes, the funds actually paid almost 20%. For the Rural Development Programme, what is agreed is about 45% and what is paid is more than 17%. Overall, as you have noted, this period in the implementation of financial instruments is characterized mostly by an intense pace of negotiation and the numbers I shared are another proof of this. The process of actively concluding contracts with beneficiaries is definitely high if we compare ourselves with others. You mentioned that Bulgaria is in the middle. That's not exactly a reference. Depending on the ranking of the different funds, Bulgaria moves between fifth and seventh place, which is definitely above the middle. If we compare the situation now with the previous programming period, over 58% of the total budget of the programmes are agreed, at a little more than 30% for the same reference date for the last programming period paid to the beneficiaries are 20% of the total budget, with nearly 15% for the last programming period. Of course, we can do a much more complex analysis if we divide things program by program. If we look, for example, at the Transport and Transport Infrastructure Programme, within this programming period, it has paid twice as much money compared to the previous programming period. The agreement reached 87% at 37% of the last programming period, and in any event this is a good achievement, especially for such a heavy infrastructure programme. In the case of programs that work with a wide range of R & D, OPHRD, where the agreed amount reaches 70%, 68% at OP HRD, compared to the previous programming period we can talk about 24%, 42 percent, respectively, so that you can make a comparison. Human Resources Development payments are already above 28%, while at the same time the last programming period had not reached 10%. The data is what it is. Regarding forecast, I believe that the pace from now on will only accelerate. As you well know, the only and most powerful prerequisite for a large volume of payments is the considerable amount of agreed funds. That's a fact at the moment. I believe that payments will move according to forecasts, taking into account the fact that the programming period still ends in 2023 and that it is customary for all Member States to have the highest rate of payment, the largest volume of payments concentrated in recent years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Vassileva, come in for a line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your response and detailed information on the implementation of the operational programmes at the moment. I am convinced that Bulgaria has both experience and expertise and the administrative capacity for managing European funds, addressing risks and tackling challenges. The first programming period is proof of that. I am satisfied with what has been achieved and I am really convinced that the pace from now on will increase. As you said, it is extremely important to focus not so much on numbers, it is important to focus on the effect of investments and results. Last but not least, to build capacity in terms of programming and policy making, supported by European funding, especially in this period, when we are already starting the preparation for the programming period 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Mr. Donchev, you will take two minutes to complete the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u168	Dear Mrs. Vasileva, the payments are undoubtedly important because without payments we will ultimately not be able to comment on the effect of what we will maximize. In addition, if you allow me to do a brief analysis, the technical management of the money has not been a challenge for Bulgaria for a long time. Once we have mastered this toolbox, we should focus a great deal of our efforts on next-level targets. I mentioned earlier the absolute focus on the effect. Along with this year, next year, probably next year, along with a good rate of payments, we need to pursue several other goals. First, to negotiate an adequate financial package for the period after 2020. Secondly, dealing with all the reforms that will be required as a precondition for using funds for the period after 2020. You know that the European Commission is extremely ambitious for the tight binding of money and reforms. And thirdly, in no case of importance, this is the programming of everything that needs to happen, everything that needs to be an investee, everything that needs to change in Bulgaria within the next programming period. This time, I think Bulgaria should set even higher goals and be much more ambitious. In addition to the sectors the worst question, you know as well as I do, is the so-called policy mix in which sector how much money goes. In addition to this no less important issue, I would even say a problem, is an adequate formula for regional distribution of funds, the toughest challenge. For me, this is a topic that has not yet been commented is the creation of a meso level of thinking, planning and investment. Currently we have an investment process at national level and a strong investment process at local level, carried out by local authorities. That's great. The regional context is lost. Some of the investments, some of the projects are not at national level, but are defined above local level. We do not have an administrative structure with such capacity, with such competences to carry out such investments, and this is the most difficult task that lies ahead of us. I say as a topic with a continuation because I am absolutely convinced that the measures that are currently being cleared, thought and planned will also require the support of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u169	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you for today's participation in the jury's day. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u170	We start with a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev about the data on the distribution of municipalities by percentage of lesistost. Please, Mr. Danchev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! First of all, thank you for your time for today's parliamentary control. On 11 August last year, the draft Ordinance on the Implementation of Sub-measure 8.6. was published for public consultation. In the forestry and forestry technologies and in the processing, mobilization and trade of forestry products and the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020. According to the Commission's selection criteria, one of the main priorities is for projects carried out in the territory of a municipality with high lesistostost. The assessment shall be carried out in accordance with Annex No 6 of the list of municipalities with high lesistness. The 10th meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Rural Development Programme took place on 28 February 2018. It presented a new version of the table for distribution of municipalities by percentage of lesistostost. The management body of the RDP argues that the changes in the content of the dynamic table of the process for establishing the percentage of lesistost of municipalities and points out that the new table is made with the help of the Forest Executive Agency and that it is up to date at this time. On 16 March this year, the Managing Authority of the Programme presented for public consultation guidelines for application under the procedure by selecting under Sub-measure 8.6. The points obtained from projects carried out on the territory of the municipality with lesistostost shall be determined according to the mass allocation table by percentage of lesistost, which is listed in the information applications to the conditions of application, as Annex No 9. There is no need for any in-depth look, a glimpse of the table shows that in less than one month its content has been seriously changed again for the third time in a row! Since the data in these tables essentially contain information about the state of the forests in Bulgaria, the serious differences in lesistity over a short time period have caused me serious concern and, in this regard, please reply to me as follows: why and how, within half a year, the list of high lesist municipalities undergo dramatic changes in their distribution? Please indicate the sources on whose basis some successive versions of the allocation table of municipalities are drawn up by percentage of lesistost, and is there a thorough analysis of the reasons for these extremely worrying changes in the state of the Forest Fund of the Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u173	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Danchev! This is the second time I have answered this question within a month and a half, so my answer will be relatively similar. Under national law, the percentage of lesistostost is determined by the ratio of the forested area in the municipality to the total area of the municipality. This is normal and very easy to calculate. It shall be established when carrying out inventory and planning activities in forest areas. In this sense, subjectivism cannot be referred to in determining priority municipalities. When publishing on 11 August 2017 the draft Ordinance on the implementation of Sub-measure 8.6. The list of lesistos was used in forestry and processing technologies, mobilization and trade of forestry products. The data on this list were from 2004. Even then I said to the previous one that, even if we say it, clerical negligence, put the old list, which was from the previous programming period, therefore it was necessary to update it. At the tenth meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Rural Development Programme, held on 28 February 2018, an updated list of the allocation of municipalities by percentage of lesistost was presented, which was included as an application in the draft guidelines published on 16 March this year under Sub-measure 8.6, as well as in the information package Annexes to the conditions for applying to the draft proposals under the Sub-measure launched on 27 April. The updated list of distribution of municipalities by percentage of lesistost was developed on the basis of information at the end of 2016, provided by the Forest Executive Agency at the beginning of February, as according to art. 19th para. 1 of the Forest Act The Agency shall establish and maintain the information system for forest areas and activities within them. An analysis of changes has been made according to the percentage of lesistostost of the municipalities, the differences in the lists are due to the fact that the data on most of them are hesitant around the limits of the individual groups according to lesistostity and even a small change in the value of a municipality could transfer it to one group or another. I would like to assure you that there are no worrying changes in the state of the forest areas in the country, even on the contrary, the trend in the last five years is that forest areas increase by between 10 and 20 thousand hectares each year. For example, in 2005, the country's forest territories were 4 million 76 hectares, of which 3 million 615, and by 31 December 2017, it was 4 million 243, of which 3 million 877 forest areas were forested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Thank you for your response. The question that I asked really has something to do with the one that my colleague asked me a few months ago. But my concern, I say again, is not so much related to the Rural Development Programme and to the criteria on which the projects under this programme are based as to the condition of the Bulgarian forest. Of course, I use your answer to say that it is clear for everyone that, in this programming period, the Rural Development Programme has fewer funds than in the first programming period and the precise objectivity of the criteria required for those applying for the Programme is of utmost importance. Therefore, the change in these values in terms of the percentage of afforestation that you are talking about, precisely in the border section of the Table and the timing of individual projects, is disturbing, especially for the municipalities that were preparing. It is obvious to me the trend that regulations are often prepared under the Rural Development Programme, respectively now guidelines for applying to create artificial conditions for improving the chances of financing projects of certain municipalities and withdrawing the chances of financing projects of other municipalities. I had the opportunity a few months ago to give such an example with Measure 7.2. and to comment on this problem with you, and now I see it under Measure 8.6. The percentage of the Bulgarian forest, according to the data of the Executive Forest Agency, is increasing, but looking at these tables that you apply in Measure 8.6., I have a doubt that this data is correct. It is a serious mistake of officials who prepare the documentation on the projects, a mistake which creates a number of concerns in Bulgaria as Bulgarian citizens, as people who care about the Bulgarian forest. Therefore, it is not only important for me to hear that there has been some mistake, but to really understand: are there guilty persons for this mistake, are they punished and how are they accordingly sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u176	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u177	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the topic of the Bulgarian forest is very great and if you are interested, both regularly invited and Mrs. Yankova, as well as you, Mr. Danchev, you are always welcome to discuss any topics on it. I would like to assure you that under the Rural Development Programme, especially for this criterion, it is objective. Yeah, I know the employee, the easiest thing to do is punish him, punish him, he's a longtime employee, he slept with him literally, putting the old list in the Regulation, that's established, and we've requested the current list. The problems in the forest, of course, are much, much bigger. Problems with the fight against disease. I would like to point out that for one year it has been a priority and I think we are doing well, especially fighting the crown. There is a crisis headquarters that is meeting on a monthly basis, and what we are reporting as dealing with the subject is more than satisfactory, not to say very good. We are currently developing and will be ready the Afforestation Plan, it will be a four or five-year afforestation plan. But there are many other topics that are related to forest control. Over 400,000 checks have been done. We get these data all the time, but there's certainly a lot of concern. Therefore, we will also take a proposal for legislative changes for these controlling persons, I do not need to mention the Lovech case from yesterday or from that day, because our employees, who are controlling, are also the subject of poor behaviour by aggressive attacks in forests. So this is a big topic, and we are going to propose a lot of harsh measures in the legislation regarding poachers, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u178	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev and is regarding the proposed amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications and the applications submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for registration of geographical indications under Regulation of the European Union 11/51 of 2012 and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! A draft amendment to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications is introduced to the National Assembly, which provides for the termination of national protection of registered in the Patent Office registrations of geographical indications, indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, including traditional products and foods such as white salamure cheese and Bulgarian yogurt. The importer of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on trade marks and geographical indications, the Council of Ministers, points out as a basis for this activity the adopted Regulation 1151/1220 of the European Parliament on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. That regulation effectively repealed two other previous regulations, namely Regulation 509/2006 and 510 on geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs. All these regulations were harmonised in Bulgarian legislation and especially in the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications after Bulgaria joined the European Union. This fact is also reflected in the law itself. Separately, on the basis of our membership, our country should have developed an internal mechanism for the effective implementation of the registrations of traditional agricultural products and foodstuffs in the European register of agricultural products and foodstuffs with protected geographical indications. Such a mechanism, unfortunately, has only been made in the past calendar year. Thus, despite the timely introduction of Regulation No 16 of 14 September 2007 on the preparation and submission of requests to the European Commission for agricultural products and foodstuffs with protected geographical indications and traditional speciality for control of compliance with the product specification and maintenance of a database of manufacturers and controllers, in practice due to the lack of appropriate regulations of the registration process of our traditional agricultural products and foodstuffs with protected geographical indications, are threatened by extinction from both our national and international markets. Given that according to the mechanism developed, the Ministry is a national authority for the implementation of the procedure for registration of agricultural products and foodstuffs in the European register of protected geographical indications, in this regard, would you answer us, Mr Minister, the following questions: How many applications for registrations of agricultural products and foodstuffs in the European Register of Agricultural Products and Foods with Protected Geographical Indications have been received for the period 2007 until now in your ministry? For which agricultural products and foodstuffs is there a pending registration procedure in the European register of agricultural products and foodstuffs with protected geographical indications? Which traditional Bulgarian products currently enjoy national protection or temporary protection under our national and Community legislation, and is Bulgarian yogurt among these foods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u181	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, an extremely up-to-date question for which I thank you. Since 2007, four applications for registration of agricultural products and foodstuffs in the European register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications and seven applications for registration of foodstuffs in the European register of traditional specialities guaranteed have been submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Applications for protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications are of the following products: Gornooryakhovski sudzhuk, Bulgarian rose oil, Strandzha manov honey, Eastern Balkan pig meat. Two of these products are already listed in the European Register as protected geographical indications. These are Gornooryakhovo Sudzhuk, registered in 2011, and Bulgarian rose oil in 2014. With regard to traditional specialities guaranteed, we have five listed products in the European register, namely: fillet The application for the entry of Strandzha Manov honey as a protected designation of origin in the European Register has successfully passed the national procedure and has been sent to the European Commission for consideration, which proposed an amendment to the application. The next stage is the publication by the European Commission of the edited application in the European Union newspaper (EU) for granting the right to object at European Union and third countries level. The application for the entry of meat from the Eastern Balkan pig as a protected designation of origin in the European Register was examined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, with comments being sent to the group of applicants for the product and their response expected. With regard to applications for traditional specialities guaranteed by products: Lionka "Troyanska" and Sudjuk "Turnovski" the producers concerned are in the process of analyzing the microbiological performance of the products in order to combine around common parameters in the application. The above listed seven products in the European register have national and Community protection. Bulgarian yogurt is not among the products protected under this European scheme. In Bulgaria there is a parallel national scheme and protected geographical indications under the Law on Marks and Geographical Indications, which is separate and independent from the European scheme. According to this law, the Patent Office maintains a State Register of Geographical Indications, but the opinion of the European Commission is that Member States cannot maintain such a parallel national scheme for the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products. The Ministry of Economy has therefore drawn up a Draft Law amending and supplementing the same law to end the registration of agricultural products and foodstuffs in the State Register of Geographical Indications of the Patent Office. The products that will be affected by these changes are 13, of which traditional Bulgarian products are: Bulgarian yogurt, Bulgarian white salamure cheese The national and European laws provide for the granting of temporary national protection of products whose applications for protected geographical indications have passed the national procedure and are sent to the European Commission for consideration. At present, only the application of Strandzha manov honey meets these conditions, but producers have not requested temporary protection. The Ministry is working to prevent the loss of acquired rights until the affected products from the State Register such as Bulgarian yogurt are included in the European Register. The Ministry held a number of meetings and seminars with members of the branch organizations and companies affected by dropping the national registration of geographical indications in order to prepare them for applying at European level. As a result, milk processing producers are currently preparing application documentation, which is actively supported by the Ministry. In addition, we have conducted correspondence with the European Commission. The Milk Sector is currently preparing their documents, as they cannot come out of one company, but to produce more companies so that they can pass in the appropriate order and be presented. In addition, in the Bill proposed by the Ministry of Economy, we will participate in the Commission, which is next week, and we will ask for additional texts to be included to enable us to have a derogation for a certain period, but not infinite, in which all these applications can be processed and sent to the European Commission in compliance with the relevant order. So that these 13 products, especially the milking cheese, cheeses from different animal species, including yogurt, are provided under an appropriate protection procedure in the European register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u182	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. Indeed, these 13 milk sector products and mainly for Bulgarian traditional yogurt, which has a thousand years of history, is unacceptable if the state does not do everything possible, as you said, to register these meetings with the milk sector. We know that in the spring of last year some Greek companies were quite aggressive so that we do not get to the point where we lose the registration of traditional Bulgarian milk under BDS 12:2010. As you mentioned about the "El Bulgarikum" after all, El Bulgarikum is a state-owned company and it is nice with the Minister of Economy more actively I suppose that you are doing it with the Milk Sector, in order to be able in addition to them, there should be at least three companies in registration, to find two more companies and to start the registration procedure. However, you promised from this tribune that this thing is being done and I hope that we as a country will keep these traditional Bulgarian products so that they can register in the European register for protected geographical indications and quality of products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u185	Thank you. I want to assure you of what you have found that we are doing everything we can. We have done the meetings, two are the big associations in the dairy sector, so for the most part the companies will be included in this procedure. What is to keep the name, but to keep the quality, I just open a light clamp, you are aware of this thing that we have already uploaded it for public discussion, it is no longer related to the indications that milk processors who produce dairy products are not allowed to have the right to have a derogation after one month after the regulation comes out to import plant fat. Because at the moment, the regime creates a prerequisite for both of them. This compromises to a certain extent the quality of Bulgarian products, and it is compromised both outdoors, and in Bulgaria the possibility of buying milk from Bulgarian farmers in the use of such products is also compromised, so that every processing company or dairy, to say it, will have to be determined whether it will make milk products or make imitation products. These are two different groups and we believe that a very good effect will be achieved in both livestock and product quality as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. And again to Minister Porozhanov a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Rumen Georgiev and Chavdar Velinov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the development of the sector. You have the floor, Mr. Velinov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u187	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The Beekeeping sector as a livestock sector has an outstanding role and importance in maintaining biodiversity and ecological balance in nature, as well as in obtaining normal crop yields from cultural plants. Therefore, the creation and maintenance of the required number of bee families is extremely important and important for agriculture. In addition, I would like to stress that the Beekeeping sector has an extremely high social value, which provides highly skilled professional employment for thousands of people, in the majority young. Leaded by this understanding, together with Professor Bachvarova and colleague Georgiev, we responded to the invitation of the Regional Beekeeper Union to participate in a meeting of beekeepers from all over the country, including with the participation of some heads of national industry beekeeping organizations. At the meeting with great concern and concern, the beekeepers involved stressed that in recent years the problems in the Beekeeping sector are becoming more and more acute. They relate not only to the non-functioning legal framework of the Beekeeping Act, but also to the implementation of the control by state bodies, indicating as an example the lack of an accredited state laboratory to examine the quality of honey or to establish poisonings in bees. The presence of a special programme and the possibility of applying under the Rural Development Programme also do not provide the opportunity for sustainable development of the industry. Leaded by this meeting and by the problems that have arisen our question to you, Mr Minister, is: what is the overall vision and measures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for State Support of the Beekeepers sector, and how will the control of state structures be increased in the implementation of the Plant Protection Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. You have the floor to answer the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u189	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, dear Mr. Georgiev, dear Mr. Velinov! A very sensitive sector, a sub-sector of livestock and concerns are justified. However, we should not only look at the problems in the sector, and there are many positive things that are happening. I'll mention some of them now. It is quite normal, when there are meetings with you, whether with the Ministry or with others, to mention mainly the problems in order to seek their solution. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has always defined beekeeping as a significant traditional agricultural sector. The national beekeeping programme approved by a decision of the European Commission is fully in line with the European Union's policy in the sector. The policy is aimed at protecting the health of bee families, ensuring the quality and safety of bee products, improving the general conditions for the production and marketing of honey. Last but not least, taking into account the depopulation of rural areas, we strive, along with the development of professional beekeeping, to provide additional income for the population within them. As of 1 October 2017, the bee families in the country were 765 thousand. 800, which is one percent and a half more than the previous year. The manufactured honey honey 11 thousand. 807 tonnes is 15.6% more than 2016. There is a lasting trend for the consolidation of the apiaries. Since the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union thanks to European and national funding, the average number of bee families in a family of bee producers reached from 21.4 in 2007 to 57 in 2017. The state provides opportunities for financial support to the sector through the following national schemes. First, State aid of the type de minimis. The last four years, taking into account the adverse climatic conditions, provide financial resources under the State aid scheme of the type of de minimis. In 2017, under the support scheme, 2 million were provided. 400,000. lv. $4,000. 300 beekeepers at the rate of a bee family of BGN 4,77 In the previous three years, the rate for a bee family in 2016 of similar assistance was BGN 11, 2015. - BGN 7,8, 2014 BGN 3.45 The scheme to compensate for material damage to fallen agricultural animals and destroyed bees and crops as a result of natural disasters started in 2015 and for the Beekeeping sector alone is compensated for both the destroyed bee families and the destroyed hives. In 2017, more than 11 thousand were paid under the scheme. lv. for destroyed bee families and hives. State aid for keeping a family book and determining productivity and genetic qualities. Through this assistance, we provide indirect support to beekeepers by supporting the activities of breeding organisations authorised to breed. In accordance with art. 229b of the Law on the livestock breeding of the two breeding organisations during The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated The next scheme is the State Fund's Credit Scheme for Investment in Agriculture, Life Holding. Registered farmers can participate under this scheme for the purchase of bee families, equipment, new construction of buildings and so on. Under the State aid and investment scheme for the construction of commercial premises and the purchase of commercial equipment to farmers carrying out direct supplies of small quantities of raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin. This scheme has been notified and published on the official page of the European Commission. The aid under the scheme for the entire programming period is 6 million. lv. In addition to national budget funds, the sector is also supported by European funds. Through the National Beekeeping Programme and the Rural Development Programme, both programmes also have national co-financing. First of all, the National Beekeeping Program. The implementation of the annual national beekeeping programmes has continued, which have established themselves as the most accessible and preferred source of funding. The budget for 2017 is 4.8 million. BGN implemented under the Programme. The implementation of the programme is for the support of 2,250 beekeepers, concluded contracts 253 thousand. lv. There are a number of measures under the Rural Development Programme that can be applied for, although they have said that there is no such thing. First, the measure 4.1.2.. investments in agricultural holdings under the thematic Small Farm Development Programme; 6.1.. starting aid for young farmers; 6.3.. starting aid for small farm development; 9........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! It is no coincidence that our question is about the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests regarding the beekeeping sector as a whole and what is to come from here on, as the problems of beekeepers are extremely many. One of the questions that we have put here is how the Plant Protection Act applies, where many of the problems that arise in the beekeeping sector are related to bee poisoning. I would like to inform you, perhaps you also know that there is no accredited state laboratory in Bulgaria that allows the appropriate analysis to be made when poisoning bees and the beekeepers by judicial means to seek the opportunity to compensate for precisely those cases in which poisoning is caused by incorrect spraying and plant protection preparations. It's a serious question, it's put to all the meetings we've had with the beekeepers. The fact is that there are different directions of support. The funds are insufficient to cover the 16 or 17 thousand farmers who have registered bees under the livestock law, but after all, as a vision of the Ministry, it is interesting to know what your intentions are with regard to the possibility that the beekeeper programme will be increased by 50 percent. A report was adopted in the European Parliament month in February, which recommended that Member States extend the possibility of implementing the Programme and financing it. This will also enable the sector to develop sustainablely. Is there expert potential in the Ministry for the implementation of such programmes for working with the sector? During the meetings with the representatives of the different branch organizations, there are 10 or 11, they stressed that only one branch organisation is working in the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. there is not enough consensus on what is offered and respectively what are the guidelines of the Ministry when working in this sector. Finally, let me ask if there will be a change in the Beekeeping Act, as one second of the texts in the Beekeeping Act do not correspond at all to the current social relations and to the problems in the sector. Literally on Wednesday, we changed again the Beekeeping Act in connection with the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, but these are solutions per piece that do not allow for a complete solution to beekeeping issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u192	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u193	Thank you. The questions were many and of a different nature, so I will not comment on them all, as I do not have enough data. With regard to plant protection, I would like to remind you that this year we did not make a derogation for the use of neonicotinoids, which was made last March, I will not say by which minister, how and why. There has been a report on the neonicotinoids problem and you already know that for almost 10 days now, there has been a decision by the European Commission to ban their use. However, before that, we did not give such permission. As far as they affect bee diseases and mortality, the European Food Safety Authority, which came out, described things quite thoroughly. With our beekeepers, there are other problems they miss. They are in the right care for bees, because many of the bee families, when they are not properly cared for when there is no proper hygiene, bees also suffer from diseases, not from being sprayed or not sprayed. There is undoubtedly nothing to increase with regard to spray control as a whole and the information that all large producers close to bee families must provide from the point of view of closing beehives. With regard to the Programme itself, I cannot answer you right now because I do not want to mislead you about one thing or another. I want this tribune to be accurate when I say something. I will take care to inform you personally whether it can be upgraded with additional funding by 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. You will take the attitude of the answer, come in, you have the floor, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, unfortunately, yes, there is a state policy, but it is not enough in the Beekeeping sector. First, as regards the legal framework, the legal framework is what Professor Bachvarova said. In accordance with art. 5 Of the Beekeeping Act you answer, but it is said in the same law that if seven beekeepers unite, prepare statutes, and register, it is now one organization. There are about 12 associations, but the law itself states that the one that proves 50 plus one has the right to negotiate with the Ministry. This in the fetus is doomed, since it can't be done. There's a working group on beekeeping that you're communicating with. Unfortunately, however, in these negotiations there is no discussion, there is not one from which adequate state policy can be taken in the Beekeeping sector. In terms of scientific and scientific activity in the sector, beekeeping. Until 1989 there was an Experienced Beekeeping Station at the Institute of Animal Health in Kostinbrod, which is now closed. There was a Scientific Council on Beekeeping that doesn't exist now either. I hope this thing with your help will be restored, as there were then 40 researchers and employees who worked, now there is an associate professor with two PhD students who deal with the Beekeeping sector. We have beekeeping organizations based on what you said about the National Beekeeping Program. In the measure "E" the three-year programmes "2011" 2013, 2014 "2016." The programme allowed non-governmental organizations and industry associations to apply for research-applied projects. Now in this 2017 Programme, this thing is unacceptable. My request is also on behalf of many of the branch organizations, if this measure can be changed in order to be able to apply, as you have currently restricted only universities and higher schools to apply. The problems in the Beekeeping sector are indeed quite many, and I hope that this will not be the last conversation on this topic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u196	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. And thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the MP Ivo Hristov and is about special relationships at the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts. You have the floor to ask the question, Professor Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u197	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I liked your wording on the special relationship, I'll remember it. Now get to the point. The issue is about scandals at the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts in the city of Plovdiv. Dear Mr. Minister, as MP from the Sixteenth Multi-Multiple Election Region, I was asked for extremely disturbing processes at the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts. The information addressed to me is a copy to you, so I will not repeat your signals, as I expect you to be well aware of them. In summary, they are related to breach of procedures under the Higher Education Act and the Academy's Rules.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Visified signals indicate responsible for these violations, the Rector of the Academy. More accusations have also been made to him by lecturers and students from the Academy. A special declaration against his actions announced the Union of Bulgarian Music and Dancemakers and the International Federation of Musicians. The formal responses that you have given so far, constructed on formal checks and prepared by the interested parties, have already been exhausted. Urgent measures and urgent action are needed because the scandal from local is becoming international, and a higher education institution of the size of the Academy does not deserve this. Mr. Minister, are you going to do a thorough inspection? When? On what terms? What kind of outsider for the Academy team? What have you done so far on the signals deposited with the Ministry of Education in relation to the above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u198	Thank you, dear Professor Hristov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u199	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the signals you are talking about were received at the Ministry of Education and Science. By my order, a committee of experts was appointed to carry out a review of the allegations by the Ministry. Such verification was carried out between 11 and 13 April 2018. In the preliminary analysis of the facts and circumstances found confirmed some of the signals, but another part of them proved false. On the question of the legitimacy of the Faculty of Faculty of Musical Pedagogy, it was found that in the period from September 2017 to February 2018, its numerical composition does not comply with the requirements of art. 26, para. 7 of the Law on Higher Education. The General Assembly in February has decided to bring the composition into line with the requirements of the Law. Currently, the Faculty Council consists of a total of 25 persons, of whom twenty habilitated, four unhabilitated and one student. The Commission found that the allegations of family and family ties between the members of the Academic Chamber and the administration of the Academy corresponded to the truth. It is a fact that Vasil Vassilev, who is chief assistant at the Faculty of Musical Folklore and Choreography, is the son of the Rector. It is also a fact that the son of Hristina Koleva, head of the financial department, has been appointed to the position of the assistant on the basis of a temporary contract of employment. Family relations are obvious. The Ministry has no competence to establish the existence of a conflict of interest, but the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property allows the Commission established by it to establish the existence or absence of such a conflict. We've sent out the competence signal. The fact is that the Rector of the Academy receives additional remuneration for an elected academic at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is different from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and has no status as a scientific organization under Bulgarian law. This additional remuneration is 150 BGN, although such a title is not regulated in the legal framework of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Development of the Academic Composition of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is also a fact that the Rector is the only one to receive such additional remuneration, agreed with an annex to the collective contract in which he, by the way, is an employer. He signed it by an employer. In this case, the powers of the Ministry shall be limited to the verification carried out by us. Based on the findings we will send recommendations to the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts. One of the reasons why we initiated the development of changes in the Law on Higher Education is precisely the control activities of the Ministry. In any private case, there are system dimensions. We have also had the opportunity to speak at a meeting of the Committee on Education and Science on the issue of academic self-government, the control work that the Ministry provides. The fact is that in this final regulated model of closed academic self-government, all governing bodies are chosen from within, by the academic community. She should hold the Rectors accountable. On the other hand, the Rectors must hold the representatives of the academic community responsible. This leads in some cases to a lack of responsibility, in other cases to a lack of correctives and sufficient mechanisms to correct such behaviour within the framework of the model of academic self-government. What's disturbing to me is that the Rector has initiated disciplinary proceedings against these professors to undermine prestige. From our point of view, it is inappropriate to take responsibility for sending a signal. I hope that with the changes that we will make and propose, we will be able to correct some of these imperfections of the model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, dear colleagues, as much as you are in this Chamber! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister sincerely and not within the framework of hypocritical diplomacy. For me, this is the first person to know what he's in charge of and what he's doing his job for. This will, of course, bring him the corresponding negatives, as it is a system that has been rooted for nearly 30 years and which, under the label for academic autonomy, actually hides various attempts to be at the top of the food chain, at the expense of academics and the quality of education and science in Bulgaria. You are also right in your answer that the case of Plovdiv is only a private definition of a common characteristic, of a common pattern, namely that under the label of academic autonomy there is actually abuse. The abuse of financial, abuse of personal, disciplinary, power, at the expense of the quality of Bulgarian higher education, which is, to say the least, improbable. I know it from personal experience. It is a fact that the current legal base is now in the face of the Higher Education Act, which does not provide enough opportunities to counter it. It is also a fact that the so-called academic community is only a community of paper because of the simple fact that it cannot control those who are supposedly controllers. The fact that you have pointed out for the repression of the people who had the courage to refer to the Ministry, respectively, the MP, is already being subjected to repression by the supposedly elected academic rector. On top of that, the Rector in question is a Rector in violation of any regulatory requirements, including in terms of his retirement age. He's already outnumbered her, and he's holding this post. It is a fact that some of the Bulgarian higher education institutions have become personal vassals of self-forgotten local feudals who appoint relatives to the fifth knee. This can't go on like this anymore! In Bulgaria there are 53 higher education institutions in 5 and a half million population. Where's that? It is a fact that some of the Bulgarian higher education institutions have become special forms of joint criminal activity. The state needs to enter into its functions not only financially, because one part of these higher education institutions comes out of the assumption that we will take your money, which means mine and yours, of all taxpayers known as state money, but do not ask us where this money is going, because it was academic autonomy. It can't go on like this! In law there is one such figure, it says: abuse of right. Once again, thank you for your actions. Secondly, it seems to me that measures should be taken against self-preservation rectors and other administrators of any rank, as academic communities cannot sanction them for one simple reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A hole? Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u203	Thank you. Dear Mr. Hristov, you have pointed out some final assessments. Maybe I won't share them. In every professional community we have and statistically similar cases are inevitable. The question is whether the model of academic self-government stimulates them. For me, the problem of the closed model of academic self-government is above all in that in the long term, I am talking about state universities, we do not have enough good incentives for development, good strategic governance and therefore a change in this model is needed. We did a comparative analysis of almost no countries with such an extremely closed model of academic self-government. In two other former socialist countries, this model has been chosen for them and for us in the early 1990s. It was to some extent a reaction to the fear that we would return to the totalitarian state. Higher schools were then liberal communities that were supposed to be of high independence. However, from today's perspective, we are not talking so much about autonomy, but we are talking about the fact that the owner of state universities is society and we need to be responsible for the development of higher schools. The public includes many representatives, may include the municipality. In many cases, municipalities are interested in the development of the university. It may include employers' representatives. We need to open the model of academic self-government. The fact of this model and what impressed me is the Internal rules on salary. The design of the wage system is not so oriented towards development. We have a great challenge in the system with attracting and detaining young lecturers, although you will often hear from academics that remuneration is lower for young teachers than teachers. The average salaries in higher schools are twice as high as in the school education system, but at the same time we do have these low salaries of young teachers just because the scissors between one and the other are large. In many cases, if you analyze the pay model, you'll see that it's more vintier than development-oriented. This is more or less a manifestation of this model. In the long term, our opinion is that this model will not ensure good development of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u204	Thank you, Minister. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Yordan Mladenov and is about the announced competitions from the Regional Management of Education. Mr. Mladenov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! By order No RD-06-135 of 16 April 2018, the head of RAO Pazardzhik, Valentina Kaitazova, announced a competition for the appointment of director of only six schools in the territory of Pazardzhik district from 27 schools without holders. In regional media, it makes it clear that this is by order of the Ministry of Education and Science and that this year the competitions will be held in stages. It also states that after the completion of the procedure for the six schools announced, the Ministry of Education and Science will ask them to be submitted to them further and thus until they are exhausted without a time schedule. My question to you is this: by what order is the way, timing and stages of holding the competitions for the Director of Schools after you delegated the right to conduct them to the heads of the RVO? By what criteria do the heads of the RVO select which schools, at which stage to be included... by criteria for temporary acting of directors people who are of one, two, three years occupying these posts as temporary executives? Why is this first stage not included the Sofia University of Botev in the city of Septemvri with Director Ivelina Tabakova? We are talking about the same director, who, together with the pedagogical advisor and students, participated in a time of study in protests against the detention by the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Mayor of Septemvri "Marin Rachev." Everyone is aware that the ROU Pazardzhik, quickly and promptly arranged the leave and that day, at the end of the first school period, when the responsibilities of the principal in wholesale secondary school are great. Mr. Minister, are you aware that this director has been charged with criminal charges and imposed a guarantee of $5,000? lv. For purposeless idleness as Deputy Mayor of Septemvri Municipality? The same rather than taking leave until the investigation is completed, continues to work and dispose as a secondary officer of the school's budget. Not to mention that from the moral point of the pedagogist, her place is not there right now. Mr. Minister, I expect your answer and I hope you will convince me that the Bulgarian school is depoliticized from the point of view of its management staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mladenov, the Preschool and School Education Act gives the heads of regional education governments the right to conclude and terminate employment contracts with the directors of municipal, state and non-specialized schools, state and municipal centers for special education support, as well as the centers for personal development support, whose activities are not organised by the school. The competitions for taking up the position of director in Pazardzhik district were announced by order of the head of Regional Education Management Valentina Kaitazova. The legislature has replaced the heads of regional education governments with the obligation to ensure a lawful, qualitative and transparent conduct of competition procedures by complying with the most appropriate period for this. It is within their powers to judge schools for which a competition is to be declared, complying with the regulatory requirements. Announcing competitions is a procedure in which, first of all, the most appropriate period should be considered for the conduct of the competitions in view of the commitments of the institutions to ensure a learning process. It should also take into account the requirement of art. 217 of the Pre-school and School Education Act, according to which competition committees are included, in addition to experts from regional education departments, and representatives of other institutions. These features determine the staged conduct of competition procedures, which, in turn, will also ensure that the normal rhythm of work is maintained in the educational system. Currently, the head of the Regional Educational Management " Pazardzhik" has announced a contest for the appointment of director in six schools. In five of them, the current directors are temporary executives and the Director of the Primary School of Paisiy Pasiy in the town of Batak is at the retirement age. No competitions have been announced in these educational institutions until now for the appointment of the Director. One of the schools on the territory of Pazardzhik district, for which a competition is to be held, is the Middle School of Sofia in September. This was held in the summer of 2016, but ended without a ranked candidate. By 1 August 2017, the post was carried out by the long-standing director of Yanka Kmetska School. Where the contract of employment is terminated by mutual agreement, the current Director of the School shall be appointed for a term of office on the basis of a contest. A few words on your further questions. The Ministry of Education left to the governors of regional governments what part for the posts to be declared a contest to be announced at the first stage. This is because the number of directors who have reached a retirement age or are temporary acting is very large in some cases, and the conduct of competition procedures risks either interrupting the activity or stressing the system when it is for a very large number of educational institutions. No instructions have been given on how to prioritize which ones to be at the first stage, which ones to the next. It's left to their judgment. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I am not aware, as this is the case now. I'll check it out. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u209	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, in your reply you mentioned the.... with regard to the commitment and employment. I can't imagine how a director is so committed to not being able to hold a competition and at the same time taking leave and attending political rallies in support of certain mayors, whether it is the mayor of the municipality itself. [[Passing a picture to the Minister.]] This is one of the photos where the so-called principal attended this rally in support of the mayor, and, of course, took leave of absence at an important time for school and children. Also, the problem is not only at the school of school...................... in the city of September. In the town of Peshtera, Kliment Ohridski has been without a director since 2016. There are many high schools and secondary schools where perhaps for political reasons, perhaps political parties have not made clear which director will be appointed, no such competitions will be held. Therefore, my request was: can I get a time schedule in which all these 27 competitions will take place in all these 27 schools so that principals can stand up there to be responsible for education in the field and in the schools themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u210	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u211	Specifically, yes, you can get a schedule. Personally, my opinion, I haven't analyzed all the areas, is that here the percentage of schools for which competitions have been announced at the first stage is low. There could have been competitions for a larger number of schools. The next stage of competitions will be in autumn, so we'll discuss the possibility, I'm not sure if it's 21 as you mentioned, I'll check again if it can be announced for all the other schools. If we don't give you a schedule. The next stage will be in autumn. Our desire was a greater share of the schools for which competitions should be announced, this being done at the first stage, but we still decided to approach reasonably and balanced by recommending to the heads of regional governments how much to be announced in the first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u212	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova concerning pedagogical and administrative activities in the 97th School of Brothers Miladinov. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my question is caused by the fact that I have received two signals from teachers and parents from 97 S &amp; A from the Brothers Miladinovi. The city of Sofia, which in one part of those who are exposed in these signals, are very disturbing to me. Therefore, my question is: the Ministry of Education and its subordinate structures, are they aware of these problems, do these problems really exist, have checks been carried out, what control has been carried out on the activities of the school management, where according to the signals there are very serious violations of the regulations in the field of secondary education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u215	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, until now the Ministry of Education and Science has not received complaints and signals of violations related to the organization of work and administrative and management activities of the Director. We will issue a check on your problems. The regional management of education Sofia-city has carried out two checks in 97 S &amp; A in Sofia. The first was made on 19 March 2018 and is related to a signal claiming that in the classes of physical education and sports a swim coach insults students and allows a parent to attend during training. The verification showed that the claims in the complaint were not confirmed. On the basis of my order on April 20th this year, another check has been carried out at the school in regional management, on the activities practiced at the school as innovative and related to the creation of a positive learning environment by applying an educational platform to stimulate the activity of students. No infringements have also been detected during the verification. Regional education departments shall carry out their activities on a well-established annual basis. Their control activities shall be carried out through thematic and ongoing checks, in accordance with this plan. Outside it and after award by the Ministry, and following alerts and complaints received in the relevant regional government, checks on their claims shall be carried out. My instruction to all regional governments and to colleagues in the Ministry who are conducting control activities has always been to respond to all complaints. The opinion of regional governments is that a very large part of these complaints are clearly unfounded, and I am not saying that this is one of them, but we still have no right to rebut that the signals that are displayed are not justified. In this case, checks have been carried out on the received signals. In one part of the cases, the infringement referred to in the alert cannot be identified, since it can only be established at the moment, is not related to documents or other which may indicate that the infringement exists. And the interviews that the examiners do don't always confirm the signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Anastasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u217	Mr. Minister, I expected that would be your answer. Of course, it should be because, in order to declare any findings, verification must be carried out. I also can't tell whether in the signal these violations, some of them very serious, are justified, and whether they really are. Therefore, I am asking you for a serious inspection and to be informed of the results of this inspection. To ask the question, I was worried about the seriousness of the violations, because it was about appointing teachers, not one or two, but 18 people, for example, without announcing job vacancies. It is said that extracurricular forms of activity are being carried out instead of compulsory school hours; that teachers teach in classes that are different from those listed in the List-Master 1; that funds are being collected for supplies by students; I think that there was even a letter of yours that prohibited this from teaching schools; that students are being removed from school classes for weeks without being punished, or that there is no decision of the Pedagogical Council; that they are not deleted from surpassed children who have gone abroad and so on, I do not want to issue a small part. That really requires checking. I thank you for your attitude and will count on being informed of the results.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Will there be a hole, Minister? No. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Irena Anastasova regarding the funding of schools in the secondary education system in the country. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u219	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! My question is caused by the fact that, as is known, this school year has changed the scheme for the formula for funding schools. The emphasis is given not only to the number of students but also to the number of classes as well as to a number of other factors when determining the funds for a school. Since the aim was to support the development of schools with a small number of students, as well as schools that are forced to work in difficult conditions, in any case more seriously than in the rest of the country, so my question to you is: does the Ministry analyze how this is perceived, how does it affect the activities of schools this new type of funding? Are there positive changes and, if there are, what are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u220	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u221	Thank you. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Anastasova! The introduction of new standards gives better financial opportunities in the general case of small schools and kindergartens compared to the current model where the funds were determined depending only on the number of children/students. Regional coefficients have been introduced in determining the funds from the state budget, thereby increasing the funds by standards for the more remote and less populated municipalities and the backward regions. The changes in Chapter "Financials and property" of the Pre-school and School Education Act increased the minimum amount of the basic component of the formula from 80 to 85 percent and reduced the amount of the emergency and unforeseen expenses reserve of the institutions which the budget managers may allocate from the funds received under the standard. These changes increase the guaranteed minimum of funds distributed on the basis of the main components of the formula. The State Budget Act for 2018 introduced a mandatory requirement for the chief authorising officers with a budget in the distribution of the funds by formula for 2018 not to allow a reduction in the budget resources of the institutions compared to what they would receive by the old model. According to the amendments to the Law on pre-school and school education, kindergartens and schools will receive additional funding for work with children and students from vulnerable groups, supporting classes for obtaining qualification in protected specialties from professions where there is an expected shortage of specialists on the labour market, and thirdly, to support protected kindergartens and schools. For the implementation of the new funding model and allocation of state budget funds for the maintenance of education activities, an additional 55 million were allocated. lv. by standard. In order not to have an adverse effect on any senior authorising officer with a budget since the introduction of the new funding model, an additional 6.8 million were provided to compensate for the negative differences in 88 municipalities. These differences do not necessarily have to be for all activities. What we did as the most general analysis is that in the activities of kindergartens 78% of the municipalities have positive differences, the rest do not have a reduction, but they do not have an increase. In a non-specialized school activity this percentage is 82, in professional high schools is 93%. This is under equal other conditions, without taking into account the funds that were additionally provided for a year-round increase in remuneration of 240 million. Additional funds were also provided to increase the number of psychologists and pedagogical advisors of nearly 7 million. BGN, as well as to cover the higher amount of the minimum wage of non-pedagogical staff. The funds for the total increase in the minimum wage we have were approximately 32 million. lv. In the system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The 55 million I mentioned are above all these funds and they lead to an increase under equal conditions so that nearly 490 schools and 390 kindergartens do not have a reduction. It is important to specify that we have two levels of allocation of funds in the system. At the first level the budgets of the executive officers are 265 municipalities and five ministries, and at the second level the funds are allocated with the mechanism of the formula. Maybe I'll just keep going through the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u223	Mr. Minister, from my visits to schools in the country and in Sofia schools, it is clear that schools with children under 200 continue to experience a shortage of funds and schools with children between 250 and 500 are well. My concern was that some of the big schools, which are used to a serious budget in previous years, would now have to work on a smaller budget. Yeah, there are cases like this, but they're not disturbingly much, so that's not such a problem. Rather, the question is: is the Ministry monitoring these processes? Yes, schools in the country, which were in severe conditions, are now feeling better financially, but there are many schools in the cities that, figuratively speaking, are tightening the belts seriously so that they can fit into this framework. So does the Ministry of Education and Science do a serious analysis and follow the processes in detail so that, for example, with the funding of the next school year, the shortcomings of the application of the new productions for this year can be taken into account and can be removed where it really turns out that there are problems?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u224	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u225	Thank you for these supplementary questions. We have 2400 schools in the system, 2100 kindergartens how to change their funding year per year depends on what formula will be made at the level of a top-level usher. But under equal conditions, if we design this funding, which was done with cost standards, the educational institutions this year are much less, which have problems with funding precisely because additional funds were aimed at a large number of municipalities where smaller schools are concentrated and more remote municipalities. We do at least a few indicators every year to see and what the inequalities in the system are about the possibility of securing the learning process. One such indicator is the average gross salary. The fact is that we have some segments in the system, some types of educational institutions in which it is lagging behind. The most visible is that between schools and kindergartens in kindergartens is lower average salary, in the last 10 years it has fallen relatively behind. So in recent years, more funds have been directed ahead of the height of the standard that we had, the average, the basic growth of the standard for kindergartens. They were included in the National Programme for Refunds, which is also additional support for these institutions. We are now doing an analysis of our backlog with regard to special education support centres, former support schools. In other institutions, we therefore have higher remuneration. We, of course, are not seeking an equalisation of the schools that you mentioned, more or less have adapted their costs to this funding that is being obtained. It is very important that we do not have these negative differences that was the goal in order for all schools to have better or equal opportunities than those they had at the end of 2017. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The other indicators on which we will be following up on is still early to conduct such a comprehensive analysis in which educational institutions, where no additional remuneration has been paid, no work clothing has been paid, but it will need to be completed at least this year. In the context of the 2018 draft budget, we will do more analysis of the distribution by formulas we have in individual municipalities. The fact is that it was also a challenge for municipalities to best distribute the funds in this change that was made. They're never all happy. In a formula by which they distribute, perhaps when everyone is equally dissatisfied, it is best distributed by the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. Next is a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova about the future of the buildings of the secondary school Angel Kanchev Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, before I develop my question to you, allow me to congratulate those working in the Bulgarian libraries with their holiday today. There is a sign that on the Day of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius with you we will again discuss a Bulgarian school. Unfortunately, however, this is another Bulgarian school that was closed last year. This is about the secondary school of Angel Kanchev in the district of Kushovtsi, town of Plachkovtsi, municipality of Tryavna. By your order of August 2017 the school is closed. According to S.A. 3 of your order the property of the school is state property, which is transferred to management of the Regional Management of Education in the town of Gabrovo. To date, it is not clear the fate of adjacent buildings to this school. There is a hostel that was renovated in 2011. The PVC windows were replaced, a major renovation was made inside. Moreover, the school is located in a place that is suitable for the treatment of cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the vision of the Ministry of Education and Science for the future of the buildings, which until recently were owned by the secondary school of Angel Kanchev and have been shut down for a year and have been desolate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, according to § 8, para. 2 of the Law on pre-school and school education, those who entered into force of the Law health schools continue to carry out their activities as secondary schools. Under the Law, the property managed by the General Educational School "Angel Kanchev" "The City of Plachkovtsi" after 1 August 2016 has continued to be managed by the Secondary School "Angel Kanchev" "The City of Plachkovtsi." The secondary school of Angel Kanchev is closed in August 2017, as you mentioned. Its property is state property and under the current legal framework the same is provided for management of the Regional Management of Education. In order to protect the property and the building fund in it, the head of the Regional Government has entered into a contract with a security company, resulting in no violations of it at present. Due to the remoteness of the real estate from the district center, as well as from the town of Plachkovtsi, the existing buildings are currently not used for the needs of educational institutions in Gabrovo district. The opinion of the Regional Management of Education is that the property is not necessary for the needs of educational institutions in the field. In view of this, the Ministry of Education and Science will propose to the district governor of Gabrovo and to the mayor of Tryavna municipality that this property be provided for the management of the district governor or transferred to the property of Tryavna municipality. The regional governor, acting as the sole authority of the executive in the area of state administration on the ground and ensuring consistency between national and local interests in the conduct of regional policy, shall have the necessary information and competence to assess the relevant needs of settlements and to take action to meet them. The local municipal administration also has a commitment to provide a favorable living environment for the population. In this order of thought may also be interested in the future management of the existing building fund of the indoor secondary school. In short, the Ministry of Education and Science currently has no other need or initiative and would support the implementation of any initiative related to the effective management of the indoor school building fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u231	Mrs. Chairman! Thank you for your answer, Minister. I sincerely hope that what you are saying will happen and that the buildings of Middle School Angel Kanchev will be used. The Ministry of Education and Science may be a mediator between the Regional Government, the district governor and the municipality, the buildings can be turned, for example, into a green school, to be used for education for the purpose for which this school was created for which these buildings were built. Given the place where it is located and the functions it has recently performed, I believe that this school can be of benefit to the Bulgarian children - not only to the students from the district of Gabrovo, but also to the whole country. I hope that you will fulfill the commitment you have made and that the buildings will be filled with life again, with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u232	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. There won't be a hole. Colleagues, on the balcony of the Chamber today are students from the Natural Mathematical School of Jane Sandanski, in Gotse Delchev, the students whose school is an ambassador of the European Parliament. They're guests of Mrs Eva Maidel and our guests, of course. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] We move on to the next question by the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov on a training system at the Medical University in Sofia in specialty. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! My question is too specific. When it was constructed, we had directed it, first, to the Minister of Health, but by competence then it was directed at you. It concerns a cyclical system introduced more than 10 years ago in the clinical training of the students from the Medical University of Sofia, a specialty of medicine, which is not only in my professional opinion, but also in the opinion of many lecturers, the students themselves, to a large extent crippled their education. Medicine is a multi-component and synchronized discipline, with very serious interdisciplinary areas and it is necessary, as in crucial universities in the world, to conduct clinical training in parallel to different specialities. This system was implanted at the Medical University of Sofia, from another European country, but in one way which is absolutely inappropriate, and is not as implemented where it was created. It creates a number of problems for students, as they complete a cycle, literally one type of training, take their exam and then within a few months at all forget what they have been trained in, and it is about very serious, leading disciplines in the field of clinical medicine. This generally affects their qualifications at their completion. In a sense, I can also continue the topic which Professor Hristov put at the beginning of your answers that academic autonomy, respectively the possibility of drawing up a curriculum, creates an opportunity in case of not good control for such a deviation, which I believe exists at the Medical University of Sofia. My question to you is: how is it possible to achieve a professional consensus to end this, in our view, wicked training system? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u234	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. For your answer please come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, the modular or so-called cyclic training system of students in the speciality of Medical School from IV. up to VI. a course was introduced in 1996 following the experience studied in five European countries "France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, England and the United States." The aim is the construction of a modern model of medical education, the implementation of this innovative training model for its time, carried out with a decision of the Faculty Council of the Medical Faculty and the Academic Council of the Medical University of Sofia, and is practically implemented through financing of two European projects under the Program "TEMPUS" between 1997 and 1999. Within these projects, over 150 lecturers and students have been given the opportunity to conduct different practices in leading universities around the world. The introduction of the specialty training in General Medicine and Emergency Medicine are the result of shared experience with the partners of the Medical University in Sofia from the United States. At the heart of cyclical training in clinical disciplines, the principle of predominance of practical activity is laid down, i.e. students, taking into account certain clinical discipline, for a certain period of time monitor the patient's intake, diagnosis, treatment and so on. Students are actively involved in the treatment process, also called "To the bed of the sick person" led by their assistant, thus helping to develop their clinical thinking in order to acquire the ability to self-solve the clinical problem. The duration of the module of a discipline is consistent with the curriculum of the curriculum and includes for one working day: two hours of lectures, four hours of practical classes and two hours of clinical practice. After the study of the entire study material under a particular discipline, an examination shall be carried out in accordance with the curriculum. The medical university is a university with a high accreditation grade in the professional direction. This accreditation has also covered this element of training. Until now, no signals have been sent to the Ministry of Education to define the modular system as a less appropriate way of learning. Obviously, it is difficult to achieve an ideal model of teaching. With the introduction of a cyclic system, the Medical University aimed to improve its educational model in line with the leading trends in medical education. You may have better observations on the practical realization of the concept, and what I have read to you is the essence of the concept. I don't think we can best evaluate this model against the alternative. This consensus, which you said, should really be sought within the framework of academic self-government. Here we are talking about academic self-government in the narrow sense, which is undeniable and non-alternative. The academic autonomy of higher schools in its narrow sense is expressed primarily in these purely academic decisions relating to the freedom to define their curriculums, ways of teaching. The faculty council is the body which legally accepts the curriculum of the individual specialities. The management of the Medical University Sofia, respectively the Medical Faculty, has the right to analyze and assess the benefits and negatives of the so-called cyclic training system and to make changes if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Valchev, I did not expect that the answer that you will give will not come out of the sphere of what you have been offered as information. Undoubtedly, because you said that I had direct impressions as a teacher of the Medical University, I should share with you that regardless of the program, which was then carried out through two projects, despite the fact that the model submitted had nothing to do with the patterns of cyclic training in those countries that you quoted, the results were sad at my professional discretion. Along with the promiscuous distribution of titles in university hospitals in recent years of dozens of medical institutions in Bulgaria in practice students at the Medical University of Sofia are scattered in the many university bases, where there are not everywhere real conditions for what you called Training to the bed of the sick person. Students themselves are not paid enough pedagogical attention, not to mention that scattered around the big city, they practically do not attend these classes, lectures that you call, and the choir that you quoted. It's only collected when you take signatures. Not to go into details that are very humiliating to me over the years I've watched. In the end, taking the slides from the lectures, the slides from the lectures are going through this cycle, not even what exists in those countries that you quoted as a Colloquium, which enables you to enter the cycle, that is, a student's censure is required, a knowledge of this discipline that he is trained to be able to start learning. This doesn't exist at all. Being correct to you, I contacted and talked to the Rector of the Medical University Professor Zlatkov and the Dean of the University of Medical Faculty. They told me that in their personal beliefs are also against this system, but it is already going, as you see, for more than 10 years. Inertia, this inertial moment, along with what you mentioned, the narrow type of autonomy that gives no one but the Faculty Council the right to propose, leads to this inertia in a way of learning. Not to go into all the other details of the recent history of Medical University "Sofia," which is quite sad and which very damaging its authority, one of the oldest educational institutions in Bulgaria with more than 100 years of history. Therefore, my request to you is really to use all your abilities and prerogatives as principal of the Ministry of Education, together, of course, in cooperation with the Health Minister, and to raise this discussion at the University of Sofia, the Medical University I mean, and not the University of Sofia, so that this problem can really be resolved for the benefit of our children who are trained in this highly responsible discipline, such as the Medical Master's degree. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u238	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Will there be a hole? There won't be. We should thank Minister Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. Question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the rule on maximum amount of pensions received. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u239	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! If the actions of the ruling majorities and governments are traced back in time and especially of the current one year of management in relation to the pension system, including the legal basis on which pensions are calculated and updated in the Republic of Bulgaria, interesting moments will be noticed. I won't analyze them now in front of you, but I'll pay attention to two of them. First, there is a permanent care and protection for persons with small income, the unemployed and those who have provided themselves with minimal income. This care is mandatory, but it is insufficient and not adequate to the expectations of society. However, it must be admired as long as the basic principle of equal treatment is respected and all others with a greater contribution to the insurance system receive proportionate protection, respectively an increase in their pensions. The second point I would like to draw your attention to is the attitude towards people whose contribution to the social security system is significant, even more than significant, to people who, in recent years or at all during the years of their work, have made maximum provision. The fact is that they are wronged and do not receive their real pension for employment and the imported funds. These are usually people with a very long service experience over 45 years and more, working in science, defence, internal security, health care, or performing hard physical work, whose relative share compared to the total number of pensioners is much smaller than 50 thousand. Souls. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received, the so-called pension ceiling, was introduced by the Social Security Code in 1999 as a natural regulator of the amount of pensions. Since then, it has been fixed to 35% of the maximum insurance income. According to the Social Security Code, and according to your statement, Mr. Minister, the ceiling will be removed for the persons retired after 1 January 2019, however, for all other pensioners is maintained, which is obviously a double regime creating inequality. In the light of the provisions of the Constitution of Bulgaria, such a decision is unconstitutional, discriminatory and segregating and, last but not least, violates one of the basic principles of social security. My question, Minister, is: what is your assessment of keeping the so-called pension ceiling of some of the pensioners in the context of their removal for the rest, what is your response to the claims of unconstitutional and discrimination and how does it benefit and improve the Bulgarian pension system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u241	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! According to the provisions of § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, the maximum amount of the pensions awarded until 31 December 2018 without additions to them shall be determined, with effect from 1 July of each calendar year, at the rate of 35 per cent, from 1 July 2019 at the rate of 40 per cent, from the maximum social benefit for the same calendar year as determined by the State Social Security Budget Act. The increase in the maximum amount of pensions from 35 to 40 percent of the maximum social security income has important financial implications for the budget of the State Social Security and significant social effects for not a small part of the pensioners. For 2019 alone, the measure will result in additional costs for the State social security of around 32 million. lv. for the second half of the year. At the same time, about 55,000. pensioners whose pensions are currently limited to BGN 910 will receive an increase in the paid amount of the pension due to the increase of the so-called ceiling of pensions to BGN 1040 and 25 thousand of them will receive the actual amount of their pensions. The limited amount of pensions, as you have pointed out, is not a novelty in our social security legislation. During the different periods of time, the level of limitation has changed depending on the specific financial possibilities. On the issue of the maximum amount of one or more pensions received was pronounced by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Court, by judgment No 21 of 17 July 1998, in constitutional case No 18 of that year, held that I quote: "The establishment of maximum and minimum pension borders, as well as their mutual condition, are dictated by the pension system in force in our country. It shall qualify financially as cost-covering. In this system, a pension ceiling is necessary. It serves to ensure the payment of a certain amount of minimum pensions. These functions show that the contested provision satisfies the requirements for social justice expressed in the Preambula of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The European Court of Human Rights has also ruled on this issue, which in its 2009 Decision determines that the ceiling of pensions in Bulgaria does not violate the right to property and does not constitute discrimination. In the same sense are the Commission's decisions on protection against discrimination issued in the period 2015 - 2017. The issue of the existence of a maximum amount of pensions should also be addressed in relation to another change in the insurance legislation which enters into force in 2019. In the provision of art. 70, para. The first sentence of the CSR provides that for pensions granted with a starting date before 1 January 2019, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the insurance income of the person for a period of three consecutive years from the last 15 years of insurance service until 1 January 1997 at the choice of the person and from his insurance income for the period after that date until the date of pension award. In accordance with art. 70, para. 8th sentence first of the CSR on pensions granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the individual coefficient shall be calculated only from the insurance income of the person for periods after 31 December 1996 until the date of granting the pension. It is clear from this point on that pensions granted by the end of 2018 and those granted after that date are calculated by different rules. According to the settled case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, discrimination against a person is the application of different rules to similar situations or to the application of the same rule to different situations. The concept of recognition of discrimination in the practice of the European Union on human rights is identical. In the light of the foregoing, I consider that the provision of § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code does not violate the principle of equal treatment of insured persons and does not constitute discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u242	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive, correct and all the definitions I can give for the answer. Did we, however, please the people who are listening to us, or at least the smallest part of them that awaits another solution to the matter?! Because from what you told me, I realized that there is no discrimination, that what we do is legal, but whether it's moral is another matter. Whether it stimulates confidence in the insurance system and causes people to provide their real jobs and received funds is another matter. I realized that there was no will to give what was deserved to those who had an unaccounted for great contribution to the insurance system. In the short time of parliamentary control, and of questions and answers, I am sure that we will by no means run out of the subject, but I would like to tell you a few things. The first is that from many meetings with such people, including in my foster groups with initiative groups, I would like to inform you that they are collecting signatures to support the request for dropping this ceiling. Miners gather them, retired Bulgarian scientists, lecturers, retired Bulgarian officers and all people with long service and respected in society. I must tell you that with these actions we are challenging this year to have an outstanding record of low numbers of retired people, you know that, and a record high number of retired people next year, as no one who is above the pension ceiling will retire this year, but will leave retirement for next year so that they can receive a pension without a ceiling. I can go on, but I'm running out of time. I don't think you need me to explain that trust in the pension system is needed, and that's how we lose it. I am not, in principle, an absolute supporter of the drop in the ceiling of pensions, but this issue is extremely discussional. Maybe we should convince the whole society of not removing the ceiling. Otherwise, people get the impression of injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, as is known, in the transitional provision of § 6, para. 1, the period for dropping the ceiling has been extended several times. First, it had to be dropped in 2009, then extended to 2011 and so on. The proposal, which is also the entry of the text in the current provision, is from 2015, when significant changes to pension legislation were made. In response, I pointed out that this decision has been linked to the entry into force since the beginning of 2019 of various rules for the calculation of pensions granted after 1 January 2019. I would like to add that the automatic regulator of the size of the pension was the maximum social security income introduced in 1999. It is actually more and more acting and will act as an automatic regulator of the size of the pension, and this is the other reason why this administrative regulator is proposed to drop out, which is the introduction of the pension ceiling. That's logic. I accept that this should be discussed, that arguments should be given, that people should be convinced, because I agree that this is an important issue for the future, as well as for the previous pensioners. By the provision of § 6, para. 1 all pensioners will win because for the first time the rate of substitution is increased from 35% to 40%. Until now, the increase in the ceiling as an absolute amount has been the result of an increase in maximum insurance income. Now the substitution factor is also increasing, which is a step in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u246	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova and Violeta Zheleva on the coordination mechanism for joint work of the institutions covering and including in the educational system of children and students, and the need to review the procedures for granting family and other assistance to the individual needs of children and students. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u247	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, Madam Minister! Reducing the share of dropouts and early school leaving are one of the most serious problems Bulgaria needs to solve. In this regard, on 5 July, the Council of Ministers' Decision introduced a mechanism for the joint work of the institutions on covering and detention in the educational system of children and students at compulsory pre-school and school age. The figures as of 5 July 2017 are that 206 378 children and students aged 5 to 18 have dropped out of school or have never been enrolled in kindergarten or school. In view of this, results were produced and on 1 March 2018 there are already 21,000 children and students who are enrolled in connection with the established coordination mechanism in kindergartens and schools, but the results are not good in view of the fact that about 10% of those enrolled have already dropped out of school. The main reasons for dropping out of these children and students are also summarised. One of the main reasons why the highest percentage and share in this regard is the socio-economic reason or that these children are exposed to poverty and the risk of social exclusion. Even more disturbing are Eurostat data, which came out at the end of last year, in relation to the fact that 45.6% of Bulgaria's children are at risk and social poverty. The distribution of income to the richest and poorest is 8.2 times, which also reflects on children. This requires the conclusion that there should be better and more effective social support for them and their families in this particular case in order to be scopes at school. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In June last year, before the creation of this mechanism by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we proposed to extend the scope of the one-off aid, but this was not accepted with the argument that funds were missing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u248	Ma'am, it's time for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u249	I understand. It is obvious that a revision of the procedures for granting family and other assistance to the individual needs of children and students is necessary in order to implement the coordination mechanism effectively. In this regard, my question is: as a coordination unit and you within the framework of your institutional competence in this Coordination Mechanism, what measures will you take in this direction? I apologize for the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u250	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u251	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the Agency for Social Assistance actively participates in the implementation of the Mechanism for Joint Work of the Institutions on Entrepreneurship and Detention in the Educational System of Children and Students in compulsory pre-school and school age. From your question, I understand that you are well aware of the Minister of Education and Science's report on the implementation of the Mechanism, so I will not quote the data already exported. I will refer to another aspect of it directly related to your question, namely the role of family aid for children. On a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Council of Ministers with Decree No 246 of 2 November 2017 adopted changes in the regulations relating to better commitment to the provision of family and social assistance to regular visits to pre-school and school preparation. The right of principals of schools and kindergartens to offer the type of family aid in kind to children at school and pre-school age is regulated. There is an opportunity to pay full or partial fees directly for nursery or kindergarten when the aid is in kindergarten. There is a commitment to the regular visit of pre-school and school preparation of the monthly social target aid for renting municipal homes when granted to a single parent to a pre-school or school age child. As you know, monthly family aid is linked to the regular school visit of their first regulatory regulation in 2002 and from September 2013, the receipt of these aids is also subject to the condition that the child regularly attends the preparatory groups for compulsory pre-school preparation. This clearly shows that measures have been introduced in the field of family assistance for a long time to better cover the education system. In relation to the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, No 754-01-28, submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 June last year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy expressed its official opinion. Our concerns are not only related to the lack of financial resources in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but also to the following unresolved questions in the project: it is not clear on what principle it is determined that it is children up to the fourth grade who have a much more serious need for support compared to other students, as according to information from the Ministry of Education and Science the share of dropouts in the secondary and high school stages of education is the largest. Secondly, the main risk of introducing the new type of assistance is the inequality of the students up to 12th grade, because, regardless of the age of the children, each student's family has the appropriate costs for its preparation at the beginning of the school year. Last but not least, I believe in principle that the detention of children at school cannot be provided only through financial support. In this regard and in view of the already existing serious commitment to family aid to regular school visits and pre-school training, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not plan any further legislative changes in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u252	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! I am not satisfied with your response in the part where you do not foresee new policies related to the social support of children who are at risk and social exclusion. The worrying data from the end of last year talk about that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should have more effective and targeted support for the children of Bulgaria at risk. Why am I saying this? Because the price of dropping out of school for children who are at risk and social exclusion is extremely high. According to recent data, people between 25 and 64 years of basic and lower education are over 700 thousand, half of them inactive, i.e. they are not looking for work at all, and 80 thousand are unemployed. In just the last 10 years, due to early school dropout, nearly 150,000 people with primary and lower education have entered the labour market. Their chances of finding a job are extremely low, with 68% employment rate for people with secondary education, for those with primary education is 33% and for primary and lower education is only 18 And one more thing I want and one more thing I need to mention. With regard to our proposal to amend the Family Aid Act for children and to extend this aid to fourth grade children, our only justification was: up to fourth grade because additional financial resources are needed and our proposal was in the middle of last calendar year. You very well know that between the first and second reading of such an amendment, having sought a greater level playing field for all children and students, this could be a change and the scope of this one-off help to be on all students and, basically, be on those children who really do not have the social opportunity to buy their teaching tools, to buy the necessary technical materials to go to school. And just one last thing, despite the fact that I come out of time from these summary data from the Minister of Education's report, about 30% show the parents' claim for unwillingness and neglect precisely because of this social premise of risk and social exclusion. In this regard, I hope you will reconsider your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u254	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. For the coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, my response was focused mainly on the measures taken to bind the payment of family aid to children with the obligation to attend school and kindergarten. And in this direction, I think that it has been made possible for children to be in school and kindergarten to be stimulated by this mechanism, respectively. What I will add to my answer is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will come up with a legal proposal for support for children left without one or two parents, a question that has been in the public domain for several months, and we will actually offer one, in our view, a basic solution related to introducing a new type of monthly assistance under the Family Aid Act for children, for children left without one or two parents, which will also be support for them, including for them to be able to continue and attend school or kindergarten, depending on age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u256	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions of the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. Question from MP Anna Alexandrova, Altimir Adamov and Kiril Kalfin about the Office of the European Prosecutor's Office. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u257	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! In connection with the international conference held in the period 26 March concerning the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, whose theme is among the main priorities of both the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, my question to you is: at what stage is the structuring of the Office of the European Prosecutor's Office, what is the Bulgarian participation and what are your expectations of the establishment of this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. For an answer, the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Tsacheva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u259	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kalfin, you rightly said that one of the priorities in the sector "Justice" of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is precisely intensive work on the implementation of the already adopted Regulation establishing the European Prosecutor's Office. Bulgaria is one of the countries that participates in enhanced cooperation and we can with self-confidence note that, throughout this period of work on the Regulation until its adoption, and now that it is being implemented, we are one of the leading countries, as we take into account the importance of this new European Union service for all citizens of the Union, in view of the increased control over the way the Union's finances are being spent, in fact, these are our funds, the European taxpayers. The Bulgarian Presidency is working priorityly to take organizational and logistical actions related to institutionalisation of the Office of the European Prosecutor. There was a debate on this topic, which was held at the informal council here in Sofia, at the end of January 26 January, on which the Council discussed issues related to cooperation and mutual relations between the European Prosecutor's Office and the already existing institutions such as Euroeus, OLAF, Europol. On this topic we also dedicated a two-day conference, which was held here in Sofia, on 26 and 27 March, with the participation of representatives of the European Commission, which is the institution of the European Union, entrusted with the possibility to issue delegated acts in accordance with the European Prosecutor's Regulation. There were also senior representatives from the General Secretariat of the Council, as well as many magistrates, many specialists, representatives of scientific thought. What was the subject of the debates and in the presence of chief prosecutors of Member States of the European Union were issues related to specific elections: the election of the European Prosecutor General, European Prosecutors, European Delegated Prosecutors, the adaptation of national legal systems for implementing the Regulation, cooperation with national authorities, the case management system, internal procedural rules and something very important, which has always been a priority of our attention: the relationship with those Member States of the European Union, which are not yet part of this enhanced cooperation at this stage. Time's up. I will continue in the debate on what lies ahead from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u260	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Kalfin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u261	Thank you for your reply, Madam Minister, a comprehensive answer that shows that indeed the Ministry of Justice and not only that, but also the Bulgarian government work hard and lay the foundations for the creation and work of this European Prosecutor's Office. I believe that this is a key pillar in our European cooperation, and I think that it will indeed produce a great positive result in all the countries involved in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Kalfin, several specific dates and years related to the structuring of the European Prosecutor's Office. On 14 March, the first meeting of the expert group of representatives of Member States for interaction with the European Commission was held, which has the task of drafting proposals, the procedural rules on how the individual elections of the European Prosecutor, European Prosecutors' offices will be in Luxembourg, as well as the rules on the selection of delegated prosecutors, which will be among the respective prosecutors of the Member States, but will work in national countries. The time limits as set out in the Regulation are: the European Prosecutor General's choice must take place in 2019 and it will take place in March 2019 and the College of the Office will be formed in November 2019. European Delegated Prosecutors will be appointed in September 2020 and the European Prosecutor's Office will start operating in November 2020. I can summarize that, at this stage, our work is being carried out by Bulgaria as chairman of the Council of the European Union, together with the European Commission, in full sync, within the time limit, as defined in the Regulation, the individual dates for the specific procedures and elections are being implemented, so I am convinced that this main priority of ours is the criminal justice part of the Bulgarian Presidency will be successfully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u264	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Iglika Ivanova Sabeva, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva on the policy of the Ministry of Justice in order to ease the administrative burden of citizens and businesses. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u265	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, with colleagues Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva we present to your attention a question about the policy of the Ministry of Justice to ease the administrative burden of citizens and businesses. Undoubtedly one of the main priorities in the management program of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 is to reduce and alleviate the administrative burden for business and citizens. A will has been expressed to shift the principle of silent refusal from the principle of silent consent, as well as the attachment of the principle of one information in an administration. The direction in which the activities in reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses should be oriented is outlined, namely the transfer of the burden from business and citizens to administration. This will be realized as representatives of business and citizens will certify compliance with the requirements of law and give consent to the circumstances being verified by completing a declaration. In order to perform the service, the administration will obtain the necessary documents from the relevant state or municipal organisation. At present, measures have been taken in this direction, including through changes to individual regulations. It has been reported that taking the administrative burden by the administration will indirectly stimulate the administration itself to introduce faster electronic services and online registers in order to save itself internal administrative efforts for correspondence, while maintaining the time limits for each service remains crucial. In municipal administrations, regional administrations, as well as other departments, certain electronic services for citizens were introduced, and the existing spectrum of the electronic services offered accordingly was complemented. In connection with the realization of this key for the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, our priority is also to you: what electronic services are planned to be implemented by your office and provided to citizens and businesses in the context of the government's categorically stated policy to reduce and alleviate administrative burdens?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u266	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. For an answer, the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Tsacheva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u267	Mrs. President, Mrs. Sabeva, honourable Members! The Ministry of Justice and the policies it conducts are in particular in the implementation of government policy as a whole, to ease the administrative burden and introduce electronic services for citizens and businesses. The Ministry of Justice has already implemented a small set of such electronic services, which are publicly known and made available to the public as a whole. For example, the provision of electronic evidence of criminality for business purposes. With effect from March of this year, an electronic service has been put in place which allows for the issuance of an electronic service certificate of criminal record, an electronic application has been made available for all the institutions of Central, Local and Municipal, as well as for the Supreme Judicial Council and the judiciary, to issue an electronic certificate of criminal record. This is only valid in respect of citizens who are not convicted, including those who have a fine imposed under art. 78a of the Penal Code. With regard to four other administrative services, the project is currently being implemented. The Court of Justice is co-operating with the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council, where four internal administrative electronic services are planned to be implemented. This is an electronic criminal record, electronic notification of a changed judicial status, electronic notification of the time of rehabilitation, electronic newsletter of criminality. The government has submitted and is already here in the National Assembly, Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, which provides for the issuance of certificates in electronic form and their receipt by electronic means respectively. At the same time, the amendments to the Law on Money Laundering Measures will provide an opportunity to enter circumstances electronically concerning the actual owners of natural and legal persons and other legal entities in the BULSTAT Register. With regard to the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, the following activities are currently being worked on: increasing the number of services provided electronically for non-profit legal entities; establishment of a Central Electronic Register of Special Bets; upgrade of the Trade Register for Connecting Central, Commercial and Company Registers; ensuring the integration of the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities with the Property Register; something that is a big problem so far; realization of a Single Entry Point for the submission of annual financial statements. The Registry Agency provides for the implementation of a minimum of nine new electronic services currently being provided throughout the country in broad public consultation. Yesterday the Executive Director of the Agency was in Burgas, today in Varna. Other appeal areas have passed, so this project is also very active. I would like to inform you that in March, a new free electronic service was also implemented at the Registry Agency, through which everyone can electronically verify the authenticity of their issued certificate of property burdens and compliance with the content there. Currently, with the amendment of Decree No 1 of 1999 for amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Citizens, a number of improvements are being made with regard to the procedure and deadlines for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and the main aim is to avoid the presentation of documents in paper form, to make the citizens as relieved as possible, as well as to shorten the duration of the entire proceedings, taking into account the necessary checks that are being carried out by the Ministry of Interior and by the State Agency of National Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u268	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Sabeva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u269	Thank you, dear Minister, for your comprehensive response. It became clear from your reply that the Ministry of Justice is actively and consistently working on the implementation of this main priority of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I express my satisfaction and admire the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to reduce the administrative burden of citizens and businesses. I believe that this will speed up the country's economic growth by allowing legal entities to concentrate and put more power and energy into their core activities, without burdening themselves with unnecessary burdening activities. Thank you again, and I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u270	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Will there be a hole, Madam Secretary? No. We're moving on to the final question for today. He is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev on the activity of the Agency for the. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u271	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! By virtue of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the Accounting Act all registered under the Commercial Law traders are obliged to announce in the Commercial Register by 30 June of the following year the annual financial statement, consolidated financial statement and others. Exception is introduced by the provisions of art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Accounting Act, according to which traders who have not completed their activity are obliged to declare this fact, declaring a declaration in the Commercial Register. These notices aim to make the data contained in the financial statements public and to give a clear picture of the situation of the trader concerned. These data are particularly useful in commercial turnover as they provide sufficient information on the material and financial collateralisation of the legal entity concerned. In a meeting with voters in the Burgas Election Region, I was repeatedly warned that the reports in the Commercial Register were not announced in due time, despite the fact that traders strictly fulfil their obligations, all the more so that a serious penalty has been provided for failure to comply with this obligation. In the general case, applications for reporting in June 2017 have not been processed at present. There are paradoxical delays and applications for reporting are only processed after a subsequent application has been received on the trader's account. In most cases, the examination of applications, respectively the announcement of the accounts, is delayed by more than a year. Thus, the accounts adopted in 2017 for the activity of a company which was carried out in 2016 are announced only in 2018. While this delay largely nullifies the obligation to publish annual financial statements, the state in which the Commercial Register is currently in place, as a result of the problems arising from the performance of the obligation of traders to submit declarations under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Accounting Act is ridiculous. Applications requesting entries of circumstances essential to trade turnover, such as change of addresses, change of managers, transfer of shares, sale of undertakings and others, have not been processed for more than a month. In any case, this problem is multiplied because, according to the Commercial Register Act, applications are processed according to the order of their entry. At the present time, three or more consecutive applications are accumulated per account as follows: for the announcement of a financial statement for 2016 submitted from 30 June 2017, subsequent to the declaration of non-executed activity submitted by 31 March 2018 and subsequent to the entry of changes. It is precisely the last application that is of the utmost importance to the trader in terms of his activity. The trader may request a change of a dishonest manager or have requested an entry at a new address with a view to changing the office, may expect substantial revenue from the sale of shares and so on. The hypotheses are numerous, but each of them can lead to significant damage and missed benefits as a result of untimely and delayed processing and entry into the Trade Register.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u272	I'm waiting for the questions, Mr. Tishev. We've been over two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u273	I'm on my way to the questions. In conclusion, traders are alerting us that applications submitted in the period 15 March 15 April for the entry of changes have not been processed and currently, with the practical activity of the Trade Register blocked. In this regard, I have two questions: how many are there at the time of entry of the present inquiry submitted raw by the Registry Agency, respectively the Commercial Register, applications for which no decision has been made by an entry official within a period longer than the one referred to in art. 19th para. 2, and how many applications for which no decision has been made by an official on entries for a period of more than one month? And second question: in addition to being a violation of law, do you find it unacceptable to hinder trade turnover in the absence of a timely pronouncement of applications submitted by traders? If yes, what measures will you take to prevent such blocking of the activity of the Trade Register in the future and compliance with art. 19th para. 2 of the Commercial Register Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. For an answer, Mrs. Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u275	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Tishev, honourable Members of Parliament! I thank you for this question, which is one of the tens, not of the hundreds I receive from the end of March to the present. In relation to the provision referred to by you in art. 19th para. 2 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities I would like to note that applications for initial registration of traders are examined by the end of the following working day and the entries are made in it in due course. You are right, however, that there is a delay, which by all means we are trying to catch up. This is already a fact, but by the time you asked me your question, there was indeed a delay, and the reason for that is the adoption of amendments to the Accounting Act, which have been in force since 1 January 2018, adopted by § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. In accordance with these changes............................................................................................... 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Law, for companies which did not engage in commercial activity, a declaration shall be filed. This proposal and this amendment came from MPs between first and second readings in plenary, without being agreed with the Ministry of Justice. Conversely, the Registry Agency has explicitly reacted that there is no technical and physical capability for these declarations of zero activities in the previous year to be processed within the same short time limits which are already burdening the Registry Agency. And from the answer to my previous question, as well as from your legislative activity, you know that a number of laws provide registers for something that is right, which is good, useful for citizens, for carrying out electronic processing of information, but for this must be kept in touch, and to hold meaning for the Agency's capabilities. You know that from 1 January this year, the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities from the Ministry of Justice has also moved to the Registry Agency, and in practice there are currently two forms of F-1 and F-2: two desks, in general, to which, by submitting these applications, such is the software of the product, that cannot be preliminarily applied, submitted on the late afternoon of today, to be processed before what was submitted in the morning. But to your question: what do we do after the problem is identified, we work on it. Above all, we have introduced extended working hours, as well as work on weekends, to actually catch up on this pile of thousands of applications, which was not physically possible to process. To date, applications from April 26 are being processed, and I am convinced that we will be on a regular schedule next week. Between this, however, as early as April 18th of this year, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, we adopted changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency, increasing the Agency's number by 75 employees, of which 14 new members of the Registration Officers Directorate. The aim of this increase is to provide administrative capacity with a view to the volume of work that I am convinced will grow, as there is an idea at the moment of new registers in new amendments that MPs are proposing in current laws to be once again placed in the Registry Agency. In this regard, with my order of 16 March 2018, when it became clear that the volume of information that is entered and to be processed in the Agency, I created a working group that is at the final stage of drafting a draft amendment and supplement to Decree No 1 of 14 February 2007. This is the Ordinance on keeping, storing and accessing the Trade Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities in relation to regulatory changes in recent months concerning the commercial registration and registration of non-profit legal entities. What the work of the working group as a problem emerges is two opinions that, in order to ease the work, a legislative change in the laws is needed and the project under which it is currently working for a Single Entry Point is currently being used. This is a project of the National Statistical Institute. The other group is that we could only, with amendments to the Ordinance as a legislative act, make sure that there is no such delay in the processing of documents in the future, and otherwise I agree with you that it is extremely important for any commercial entity that the circumstances, the facts that are recorded, are made available to third parties in due time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u276	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u277	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes I get the feeling that we're living in parallel realities. On the one hand, as in the answer to the previous question, you have stated that the government, the government, is taking measures to reduce the administrative burden, and now the answer shows that the reasons for blocking the Trade Register and the processing of applications are due to legislative changes that the majority has adopted, as well as structural changes in the Ministry, which are also due to actions taken by the majority. That is to say, on the one hand, we strongly state that we are fighting the administrative burden on citizens and companies, on the other hand, business is practically facing a complete factual inability to serve its commercial needs by entering the Agency. And one more thing. You gave quite specific answers to my question, but I didn't hear anyone take responsibility for having delayed months of filing applications? And these are companies that gave sole traders, whether LTD, gave joint stock companies. Will someone pay them back, make up for it? They are the main taxpayers of the State, but in practice the State did not provide them with such conditions that they would function normally legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u279	Mr. Tishev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the issue of the parallel state, I do not have the competence and expertise that you have in your parliamentary group, so there is no way to answer that line. I'm not a specialist. As far as the rest of your lines are concerned, they are definitely not covered by the truth. There's been no delay for more than a month. Moreover, for business compensation, it cannot be said because the facts that are included as circumstances that need to be registered are being taken into account. At the very beginning of my reply, I said that you are another one of the hundreds with which I contact both business representatives and lawyers, and especially the employees who work. We will continue by the government the policy that we have taken to introduce e-Justice, e-services, because I firmly believe that first, thus overcoming corrupt practices, and secondly, this is the right approach and it is applauded by both representatives of administrations and business, but also by Bulgarian citizens. With regard to the fears and suggestions that you make to them, I think it is incorrect because people are reporting and seeing the results that we achieve in the already realized electronic services. I assure you this will continue in the future. It was no accident that I stopped in the few short minutes that I had to answer for you, the projects that were being developed. What we're doing is extremely ambitious. Make sure we do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-11.u280	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. Let's thank the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva for her participation today. Due to running out of time, I'm closing the session. The next regular plenary session of May 16th at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
