ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u1	Good morning, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for 9 May 2018: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Landing "A General Project prepared by the Commission on Agriculture and Food on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 19 October 2017. Yordan Apostolov, Boris Yachev and Hristian Mitev were introduced on 5 September 2017; Zapriyan Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018. Adopted on the first vote on 25 April 2018. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Budget and Finance Committee on 3 May 2018. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Services to support the implementation of projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. 8. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2017. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media on 30 March 2018. 9. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: 129, none, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate Europe's Day a day dedicated to the peace and unification of European peoples, a day on which we once again state our determination to continue to uphold the principles laid at the heart of a united Europe. Today we all have a reason for sound pride, because in recent months Bulgaria has not just established itself as a responsible, reliable member of the European Union, but has made a significant contribution to the debate on the future of our common European home. I believe that Bulgarian parliamentarians will work hard to ensure the peace, freedom and prosperity of Europe. Europe is now Bulgaria. Here are discussed important topics for all European citizens, are sought and are found the best solutions, which are dictated by the desire of all European peoples for the calmer and safer future of our children. Because it is children and young people who are the most secure guarantor and trust in the unity and integrity of the European Union. I am confident that each of us will continue to work and put our energy in order to contribute to our common European goals: peace, stability and prosperity. Happy Thanksgiving, guys! [[Applause.]] Thank you. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in. They'll pass the manifests and we'll release Al. Three, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we celebrate the 9th of May, the Day of Europe, on which in 1950 the French Christian democrat, minister and twice Prime Minister of France, Robert Schumann, read the Declaration, which remained forever in European and world history. With it, France lends its hand to defeated Germany and proposes that the centuries-old feud between the two countries be buried and replaced by cooperation. Thus, the sense of revenge is replaced by the desire for European unity based on equality and respect for everyone's interests. This historic act replaced the wars of the old continent with peace, the feuds of reconciliation and cooperation, and the economic catastrophe caused by World War II with economic rise. The European project, from its beginning to today, is undoubtedly the greatest peace project of mankind. GERB's parliamentary group expresses its respect and recognition to all who worked to achieve the dream of a number of generations of Bulgarians to see Bulgaria, ordered as an equal member of the family of the free European peoples. Today, we would also like to recall that on 7 May 2018 it was 26 years since Bulgaria's accession to the Council of Europe as an equal member. Then, with the rise of the Bulgarian flag in front of the Palace of Europe in Strasbourg, symbolically represented the beginning of Bulgaria's return to the common European family. With our membership in the Council of Europe, our country has begun to develop a society based on the principles of democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, the three pillars of European civilization. On the same date 7 May, 26 years ago Bulgaria again received an invitation for association with the European Communities today bearing the name..................................................................................... The Agreement on this Association was initialized at the end of the same year, 1992, which marked the beginning of this second aspect of our European integration. As a result of the sincere efforts of the Bulgarian society to achieve this goal in 2007, Bulgaria became a full member of the European Union, a Union based on the principles of freedom, solidarity and equality between the European Member States, which aimed to establish the free movement of people, goods, services, capital and the achievement of prosperity for all citizens. This was a really historic moment for us, and the road that has come gives us the opportunity today, when Bulgaria is chairing the Council of the European Union, to take account of what has been achieved and to set clear goals for the future. A political party GERB has always defended and will continue to follow Euro-Atlantic values and will guarantee our membership in the European Union and NATO. For the past 11 years of our EU membership, Bulgaria has received significant and visible support for the implementation of the numerous projects in all areas of public life as an expression of European solidarity. Within three governments with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, we are actively working to ensure regional and global security of the Union, we are making efforts for a well-guarded and secure external border, we are maintaining financial and economic stability, and even in the period of severe debt crisis Bulgaria through strict discipline has remained with balanced macroeconomic indicators and a sustainable banking system. The current first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union gives us the opportunity to contribute even more actively to finding a united vision for the European future, which we wish to share with both the other countries of the European Union and our neighbours from the Western Balkans. We believe that together we can respond much more successfully to the serious challenges of our time. We hope that this position shares both all the political forces in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian citizens. In this we from GERB see the protection of the Bulgarian national interest. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is an important day, a day where we bow our heads to the insatiable will and military feat of those who ended the greatest and most devastating war in the history of mankind and saved millions of lives. Today is a day where the Bulgarians traditionally revere the Soviet army and the thousands who died in the anti-fascist resistance. Today is a day when we look back at devastated Europe, but we see the first sparks of its revival and unity. 73 years ago, on May 9th, fascist Germany signed its unconditional surrender. 68 years ago in Paris, on 9 May, Robert Schumann shared his idea of a new political union in Europe to make the war between the European peoples unthinkable a coincidence sought, ladies and gentlemen, or a sign of the deep mind of post-war politicians. Without May 9, 1945, Victory Day, there would be no May 9, 1950. ▪ Europe Day, and Europe would not be what it is today! The world too! The two dimensions of this date actually express the victory of creation over destruction. But are we building or breaking today? The world's post-World War II collective security systems are under serious test. Tension has escalated despite the many words about freedom, democracy and peace. Peace and war already sound, unfortunately, synonymous. Europe also lives in the rhythm of new challenges: refugee wave, threat of terrorism, a continuous war against normal life. Today there are attacks whether you are in Moscow, St Petersburg, Paris, Nice, Stockholm, Brussels, Madrid, London. Bulgaria has its place in this dynamic and according to Bulgarian socialists this must be the place of reason. This mind begins by finally appreciating the dignity and calm past, stopping denial and petty internal squabbles. It is a historical fact that the Soviet army has a major role to play in achieving peace in Europe and in the world. It is a historical fact that the peace building that began in 1945 was successful thanks to the targeted efforts and the conscious responsibility of states and politicians, regardless of the political order. Today BSP works for Bulgaria as a threat-conscious country, but reasonable enough and balanced enough not to deny its past and relationship with the Russian country. Bulgarian Socialists protect Bulgaria's European perspective, but we also believe that the oppression of hatred, suspicions, negativity towards the Russian country is harmful and dangerous, including for Europe itself, and for the world, because Russia civilization, spiritually, economically and politically is part of Europe. Bulgarian Socialists are a strong political opponent of this government and we will continue to be one, but right now we are saying that we will work for a single policy for Bulgaria's place as a state - a source of stability not only in the region, but also on a European scale. Enough ideological squandering and following propaganda plots, no matter what. It is time for awareness and unification around national goals. I will end with the words by which Schuman begins his declaration: The world's peace cannot be preserved without creative efforts proportionate to the dangers that he is facing. They're relevant today. Our call is: unity in the name of Bulgaria. It is always better to bow our heads to the mind of history, even if we do not accept its lessons than to swim along the course of the conflict. [[(Applause and single shouts "Bravo!" by BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Any other affidavits? You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Happy celebration by the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms! The day of united Europe is a day of suffering, a day of dream of many generations of Europeans, especially from the last century and millions who did not wait for this united Europe, this peaceful and free Europe in which we now live and which is now facing a crossroads again today. At a crossroads, because unification is not a fact, peace is not a lasting achievement, prosperity is for one another, not so much for another. We must be aware of our responsibility to the generations that have secured this day, and we must follow this path. The movement for rights and freedoms from the day of its creation stands firmly on the European path of Bulgaria, worked hard for the realization of this Bulgarian national perspective and continues to stand in this course and defend this perspective of ours. But both Europe and Bulgaria today face two facts. The first is what led to the possibility of creating a united Europe; and the second is how we view this day: from the perspective of the past, from the perspective of the present or from the perspective of the future? Even in the statements today in the Bulgarian Parliament sounded these two moments: in the Declaration of GERB the present and the future, without mentioning how it came to this, and in the declaration of BSP the emphasis on this. We would like to say that both facts should be noted. Without Victory Day, without the day of the combined efforts of the peoples of the Soviet Union, the peoples of Europe to surrender Germany would hardly have come. Without surrender, without establishing peace, the dream of a united Europe would be an illusion. Therefore, we must note both the facts, must be before history, before the present, before future generations. Noting these facts, let us go back a little bit in history and see what is really the dream of a united Europe? It is a dream of a peaceful Europe, a Europe where there are no world wars, a Europe without nationalism, because there is hardly anyone in this room who will deny the fact that the nationalisms in the 20th century led to the two world wars. German national socialism, the nationalisms of other European countries have led to the outbreak of the two bloodiest conflicts in the history of mankind and the millions of sacrifices that European peoples have made. Therefore, we should never forget: a united Europe is a rejection of nationalisms in the form that they oppose peoples to each other, divide people by ethnicity and religion, oppose them and use this opposition to achieve goals that have nothing to do with people's prosperity, with the prosperity of nations, with the prosperity of Europe. So today, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms says so: Let us go on the path of the dream of the European peoples, but let us never forget what opposes the European peoples, which has led to these catastrophes, because today this danger is more alive than ever. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party. Mr. Netsov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The declaration by the party will be a declaration of thanks and peace on May 9th. A hundred and ten million people from 61 countries have been fighting in the territory of 40 countries for 2195 days. 75 million people die, 50 million are Europeans, of which 27 million Russians, 12 million are lost in concentration camps, tens of millions are missing or severely injured. Consciousness of modern man can hardly perceive this staggering statistic, for behind each figure are separate human destinies. There are no such strong words in any language as to explain what people experienced during World War II. There are no words to define the cost of human life, and there is no unit of measure for patriotism. Do we at Voljas consider it absolutely unacceptable to use the attempts of today as another reason for dividing the society is Victory Day or Europe Day? There's no such dilemma, colleagues. It is clear to everyone that without the victory of May 9th, there would be no Day of Europe over Hitlero-fascist Germany. Let no one attempt to overshadow the memory of the heroes with propaganda. On this day, all we can do is bow down and be silent. One of the most popular Russian songs sings: "Slavey, don't worry the soldiers, let them sleep a little bit." Millions of brave men, women, children, gave their lives to save the world from fascism, sleep their eternal sleep, but their courage and sacrifice will never be forgotten, so today from every European capital must be heard only and singularly: "Thank you! " We named our declaration a peace declaration because nothing is possible if it does not exist. Not only in the name of the millions of victims, but also in the name of our own future, we are obliged to stop any self-forgotten modern politician who blabbers weapons and sees the power of aggression as the only way for interstate relations. If humanity is not able to learn a lesson, history will repeat itself, but in an even scarier way. Is that what we want for our children to experience in battlefields rather than sciences, families, and enjoy life?! This must have been what they wanted for themselves and those brave young men who were called to stand up to Hitlerist Germany, but the recklessness of a deranged political elite in Europe decided their fate in another way. We can't allow such an assault on human civilization to happen again. The main mission of modern politicians is to keep peace as the most valuable thing we have inherited since the 20th century, and therefore it will also take a lot of courage, independence and willpower, but above all patriotism. Happy Thanksgiving! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. [[Applause by Volya., single applause by BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the National Assembly's Work Programme. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. As a point in the National Assembly's Programme is proposed to enter the First Voting of the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence. Mrs. Jeleva, if you'd like to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of February, we from the left tabled a proposal for a supplement to the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence with the clear belief that the changes made by us in Bulgarian legislation will lead to real action in the prevention and fight against domestic violence and it is not necessary to ratify the so-called popularity at this time the Istanbul Convention. The proposed bill aims to provide a higher level of protection for victims of domestic violence, with the emphasis on a measure that helps those victims of violence and, above all, on their accommodation in crisis centres. The proposed legislative change requires that the National Programme for Prevention and Protection of Domestic Violence adopted by the Government contains as a measure the construction, maintenance, management of such centres. In Section IV of the programme adopted by the Government in January 2017, a very general wording for maintaining these centres is laid down, which is too insufficient. We therefore propose that the Law establish a minimum number of such crisis centres, namely at least one in each of the districts of the country, and within two months the Council of Ministers should take action to update the Programme and provide the necessary funds. Just a few days ago Mr. Borisov stated as a disadvantage of his one-year management period that he failed to explain to the public the importance of the Istanbul Convention. In particular, for the prevention and fight against domestic violence, I believe, honourable Members, that today we can correct this mistake and accept and allow our proposal to come to the agenda. Now is the time to show that we are actually defending the rights of Bulgarian women. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria to be included in the Program of the National Assembly of the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence, No 854-01-4. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u12	Dear Mr. President, I am empowered on behalf of our parliamentary group to pay serious attention to the fact that we compromise with the authority of the National Assembly when discussing key legislations. It's about the Bill of Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act. Dear colleagues, we are talking about determining the interest rates of 80 billion leva savings and thousands of Bulgarian companies. What's the problem, Mr. Chairman? The problem is that at the meeting of the Budget Committee, when discussing this key law, no representative of the Governing Council of BNB came.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u13	Mr. Gechev...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u14	You didn't come, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u15	Mr. Gechev, may I pay attention to the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u16	...no representative of the Board of Directors of the Association of Bulgarian Banks, there was not a single representative of the Ministry of Finance. By BNB seven members of the Board of Directors, two governors and four other members, 29 directorates...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u17	Mr. Gechev, excuse me, but you are using the procedure to develop a completely different from the procedure thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u18	No, I would like to address you as chairman, to tell Mrs Karayancheva that we have reached a limit where in the work of Parliament we are humiliated...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u19	There is another procedure, please follow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u20	...state institutions, associations,...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u22	...they started sending from the eighth level people to discuss key issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u23	You wanted the word by procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing a procedure on the way I'm doing it because something weird just happened. I did not understand what procedure Professor Gechev asked for, which discussed the work of a commission on a bill which was not included in the weekly program? I believe that raising the issue in this way is absolutely unacceptable. If the Member has any objections to the way the Commission works, he should discuss this with the President of the Commission. Moreover, those objections examined in substance are absolutely unfounded because, as far as I have heard from my colleagues in the Committee on Budget and Finance, this is precisely the argument that the discussion of the bill in question has been postponed. It is strange, Mr President, during a plenary session, during a discussion on our weekly agenda and on the items on the agenda, that we discuss specific views on the work in committee. Moreover, there is no speech here about principled objections, but about those which could normally be included in the debate on the relevant point. It seems to me that Mr. Gechev is trying in some way to anticipate a debate that has not yet begun. That's also unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Again for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From our colleague Professor Rumen Gechev was raised an important issue. As for the letter of our rules, the procedure, and whether the content of his speech fits exactly in this letter, I believe that there is no need to discuss it and Mr. Kirilov could have saved his speech. The point is that the committees are part of the work of the National Assembly. What happens in the committees cannot be the subject of attention only in the separate committee when it concerns such a gigantic issue as Professor Gechev raised. It seems to me that the procedure, as you interpret it, is a purely technical activity of the stands, which should have no bearing on the content of our work. That is not the point of the Rules, Mr. Chairman. Please, when the question of procedure is raised in the way of work, do not look at it in those letters and commas, which are written in the Rules, but look at parliamentaryism in its entirety. I regret that attention should thus be paid to a matter more important to its content than to the letter in the Rules. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Thanks for the line, Mr. Kirilov. Mr President, I believe that a slightly wider view of the activities of the National Assembly and the implementation of the Rules will not be to your harm. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I just want to say to you that I am looking at the Rules widely enough until it starts to be used for other purposes. I cannot accept what you are saying that I have, in this case, admitted something that has not been sufficiently clear under the Rules of Procedure. I think I've waited long enough for Professor Gechev to develop his thesis. Again, in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u28	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have heard here two suggestions that I liked very much, and I hope you will accept them. The first is to take the procedures more widely in the case of their content and not by procedure. Although the name itself is a procedure, it means an exact procedure. It is not a coincidence that the Rules are Law and there it is said in what way, when and in what the procedures can be taken. As well as my colleague Tsonev's proposal to transfer the Budget Committee to plenary, to hold the meetings here so that you can participate in who is present or not present at the Budget Committee and on the content. Mr. Gechev's statement was incorrect. I get it. BSP is looking for a reason not to support this law [[Applause from GERB]] and found a reason, because last week the Budget Committee did not attend the budget manager under the Law. But notice, that's not true! There were directors of directorates, there was a discussion on the content and, notice, ladies and gentlemen, the vote and the continuation of the debate for this week was postponed, so that it could be included in the portfolio and that all questions could be answered, as well as the opportunity to... [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u29	Professor Gechev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u30	...of the BSP, considering the answers to these questions to vote on this bill. This is on the content, Mr. President, so I would ask you to follow the regulations and not to give procedures with content that could contain false statements, and from this high tribune, to the cameras, these false claims to be made known to the whole society in order to manipulate. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Personal explanation of the procedure cannot give you, Professor Gechev. I apologize. Personal explanation I can't give out of procedure. Let's move on. [[Noise and lines.]] You can do it by procedure, but I'm afraid it will again take a slightly different place in the proceedings. So please, let's move on. You'll have plenty of opportunity to speak. Mr. Kutev, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because this is not the first time this has happened. I do not understand which part and which text of the Rules of Procedure you claim cannot be given a personal explanation. It is explicitly stated in the Rules that it is given when the people's representative is individually and individually affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u33	Speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u34	The procedure is a statement. We have no other form. Who said the procedure wasn't a statement? She's not silence. It can't be anything else. In my opinion, you have no reason to refuse the personal explanation. In a procedure I can say amazing things about Boyko Borisov, for example. You're not gonna stop me and we're not gonna follow the rules? Or we won't allow a colleague to answer if I talk about Mr. Tsvetanov, what I think he is, in this procedure. Of course he should be entitled to an answer. So you have no reason to refuse the personal explanation just because it is a procedure, as long as it complies with the regulations. It just doesn't make sense, and it's been happening for the seventh and eighth time, so I took the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I interpret the Rules as it is written down, but it could be changed on your suggestions. We are continuing to work. I will introduce you to the bills and draft decisions for the period from 1 to 8 May. 2018: A bill to supplement the Credit Institutions Act. Importer is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance as the leading committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. A bill to amend the Law on Radio and Television. Importers are Vecdi Letif Rashidov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Administrative monitoring report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2010 - 2020 It is allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Report on the draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the importer. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the national representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Religion Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadayi. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is leading. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Education and Science. We have not received a proposal for the place of the proposal to include the item on the agenda by the parliamentary group... If there isn't, it's my call. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY CODE. Mr. Ademov, please come in for the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal in connection with a discussion of the draft in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Lazar Lazarov to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u37	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u38	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 2 May 2018 discussed and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov. The draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements for increasing the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights, which the Republic of Bulgaria should transpose by 21 May 2018. The directive introduces rules to facilitate the exercise of workers' right to free movement between Member States by reducing obstacles created by certain provisions relating to certain supplementary pension schemes. At European Union level, obstacles to the mobility of workers related to supplementary pension schemes in different Member States have been identified. Four main problems which prevent the exercise of the right of free movement: tax treatment of cross-border contributions and transfers; conditions for the acquisition of supplementary pension rights; rules for the preservation of passive pension rights; the way in which the transfer of acquired rights is organised. The directive aims to overcome these obstacles by improving the conditions for acquiring and preserving supplementary pension rights. In the current provisions of the Social Security Code, there is no statutory waiting period which enables employers to apply unjustified long waiting periods where new workers and employees and employees under a management and control contract will not be provided in the supplementary voluntary pension funds. In this context, the Bill proposes a regulatory maximum waiting period for the next 6 months after the expiry of which employers, as insurers, will be obliged, if they provide their other workers and employees, to start contributing insurance contributions to an additional voluntary pension fund or an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes for the new employee or for the person with whom a contract for the award of management and control is concluded. In a preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed bill, it is written that the draft aims to: introduce the requirements of the Directive, which the Republic of Bulgaria should transpose by 21 May 2018 and thus comply with its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, avoiding the risk of imposing penalties for non-compliance; removing barriers to the mobility of workers on the labour market in the Member States; facilitating the exercise of the right of workers to free movement between Member States and within the respective country; ensuring and preserving the pension rights of all workers, including migrant workers. The same assessment also states that the interested parties are: 1. The persons employed in employment, service and management and control contracts and their successors, who, according to data from the National Insurance Institute as at April 2017, are 2 429 489. 2. The employers, insurers and employees of management and control contracts whose number according to the NSI data as of April 2017 is 213,906. 3. The missionaries in the supplementary voluntary pension funds and their successors, which, according to the Commission for Financial Supervision of September 2017, are 1244. 4. Pension insurance companies, which are nine in number. A reference from the Ministry of Justice has been attached to the Bill, which shows that according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the compliance of the Bill with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The draft was discussed on 26 March 2018 by the Committee on Insurance Relations at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and on 30 March 2018 by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Both bodies have unanimously supported the bill. The Commission received opinions from KT Supporta, Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, Financial Supervision Commission, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Financial Supervision Commission and KT support the Bill without any comments. The Bulgarian Association for Extra Pension Insurance expressed disapproval that the directive was adopted and published four years ago "on 16 April 2014" and was proposed for harmonisation with the Bulgarian legislation within its deadline. This delay, according to the Association, leads to haste and, in the final account, to ineffective discussion and mechanical adoption of texts. As far as some of the texts of the Bill are concerned, the Bulgarian Association for Extra Pension Insurance are of the opinion that pension rights in an additional pension fund have been settled for the insured person and its successors so far under the Social Security Code in force. Those rights shall also be maintained after termination of the relationship between the insurance undertaking and the insured person, including if the contribution to the fund is suspended. The Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria supports the Bill with the reserve, noting that it imposes restrictions which are not followed by relevant European legislation. The directive requires application for supplementary voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes, while the Bill provides for covering all forms of supplementary voluntary pension provision, which means that the scope of application is extended without having such a European requirement. In perspective, it is possible to continue the depersonalization of the supplementary pension funds with an employer's contribution something that emores the model established in the country and limits the choices of employers. These are grounds by which the employers' organisation does not unconditionally support the proposed bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Rumen Genov and Hassan Ademov. They expressed their support for the Bill with the understanding that the Bulgarian legislation introduces the requirements of the Directive with which Bulgaria fulfils its commitments as a Member State of the European Union. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u39	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Who will present the report by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds? Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. At its regular meeting on 25 April 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, from the same ministry. This Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements for increasing the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights, which the Republic of Bulgaria should transpose by 21 May 2018. The drafting of the Act is in the Action Plan for January of June 2018 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union adopted by Decision No 255 of the Council of Ministers of 17 April 2018. Directive 2014/50/EU lays down rules to facilitate the exercise of the right of workers to free movement between Member States by reducing the obstacles created by certain provisions relating to certain supplementary pension schemes. The European Union has found obstacles to the mobility of workers related to supplementary pension schemes in different Member States. In the current provision of the Social Security Code, there is no statutory waiting period which enables the employer to apply unjustified long waiting periods where new workers and employees and employees under a management and control contract will not be provided in supplementary pension funds. There is also a lack of obligation for pensioners and employers to provide information to insurance and their successors, which are related to supplementary pension rights and the influences that the termination of employment relations with them has. The lack of accurate and clear information on the rights that persons acquire as a result of the provision or termination of their provision in supplementary pension funds is an obstacle to them being able to make an informed choice when adopting employment offers, including moving across the territory of different Member States for that purpose. This Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code proposes a regulatory definition aimed at introducing the requirements of Directive 2014/50/EU in the national legal system. The Bill introduces an obligation for pensioners and employers, in their capacity as insurers, to also provide accurate information in writing within acceptable time limits for the conditions for the acquisition of supplementary pension rights and the consequences of the application of the conditions when the employment relationship is terminated, as well as the amount of payments due to the heirs of a deceased insured person or pensioner in the supplementary pension fund. Following the presentation of the Bill by Mr. Lazar Lazarov and the subsequent discussion, which was attended by Christian Vigenin and Ivan Ivanov, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds held a vote, with 6 votes on the proposal of the National Assembly to adopt at first reading a draft amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time limit for proposals between first and second readings of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code shall be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u43	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to change the term of the newly voted bill by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Moving to second point of the Work Programme: THE SECOND BENEFICIATORY OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNING AND USE OF THE EARTHS OF THE EARTHS OF THE REGULAR PROJECTS OF THE COMMISSION ON THE AGENCY AND FOODS OF THE BENEFICIARIES OF THE FIRST VOICE OF THE 19 octomber 2017 THE LAW PRODUCERS WITH THE INSTRUCTIONS: JORDAN APOSTOLOV, BORIS YATCHEV AND CHRISTIAN MISTIV, 5 SEPTEMBER 2017; AND SAVED YANK AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S PRESENTS, 27 SEPTEMBER 2017 The report of the Commission on Agriculture and Food follows. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, for the presentation of the General Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Land Relations and Comasation, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u45	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u46	Report on the General Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 753-07-14 of 3 November 2017, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 754-01-52, submitted by the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 5 September 2017, and the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 754-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Zapreyan Yankov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. The law on ownership and use of agricultural land is amended and supplemented by the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u48	According to § 1, the importer has received a proposal from the MPs Dessislava Atanasova and Christian Mitev, which the Commission supports in principle. There is a proposal received by Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in general. 2 point (b) and the proposal under point (b) 1 et c. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for option I and version II of the Report and shall propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... New article shall be created. Art. 4a. (1) Agricultural land may be rented out by: 1. the owner or the person authorised by him; 2. a person who has rights on agricultural land, including in its content the power to use or manage the land granted by an owner or by a person authorised by him; 3. co-owner or co-owners of agricultural land, or by a person authorised by them. (2) A lease on agricultural land for a period of more than one year shall be concluded by a co-owner or co-owner of agricultural land holding more than 25 per cent of the ideal parts of the joint property or by an authorised person. In these cases, relations between co-owners shall be settled according to art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. (3) The authorisation for the conclusion of a lease of agricultural land shall be subject to an explicit power of attorney with a notary certification of the contents and signatures of the authorising officers. (4) Notwithstanding the agreement of the parties to the rental contract on agricultural land, the tenant may rehire the land or part thereof after obtaining express written consent from the landlord. Art. 4b. (1) The lease contracts for agricultural land with a duration of more than one year, as well as the agreements for their amendment or termination, shall be concluded in writing with a notary certification of the contents and signatures of the parties carried out at the same time. (2) In the course of the notary production the notary shall perform a check to comply with the requirements of art. 4a and applies to the notary case sketches of the property subject to the contract. The drawings shall be declared for receipt by the notary through remote access to the Cadastral and Property Register information system or shall be provided by a party to the notary production. Where there is no cadastral map and cadastral registers entered into force for the land concerned, sketches of the properties issued by the respective municipal agriculture office at the location of the property shall be attached to the deed. (3) The lease contracts for agricultural land with a duration of more than one year, as well as the agreements for their amendment or termination, concluded in writing with a notary certification of the content and signatures of the Parties, shall be entered into the respective Registry Office at the location of the properties. The acts to be entered shall be subject to those issued in accordance with para. Two drawings of the properties. The entry shall be ordered by the Judge of the Registry, subject to the requirements of art. 4a. The entry shall be subject to a fee fixed by the tariff under art. 1 of the State Fees Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create new Articles 4a and 4b with texts submitted by the President of the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u50	By § 2 of the supplier option I and option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by For the verification of the content and signatures of the parties under written lease contracts and for the rental of agricultural land, a notary fee shall be collected regardless of the material interest or the time spent in the amount determined by the tariff under art. 85, para. 3 of the Law on Notary and Notary Activities. Upon simultaneous verification of the content and signatures of the parties, the fee shall be collected once.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u51	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 2. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u52	There is a proposal received by the National Representative Bürhan Abase and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u53	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u54	According to § 4, the importer has received a proposal from the MPs Dessislava Atanasova and Christian Mitev, which the Commission supports in principle. There is a proposal received by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for option II and shall propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37b is Only rental contracts on agricultural land concluded in compliance with the requirements of art. 4a and 4b, as well as lease contracts concluded in compliance with the requirements of this law and the Agricultural Landing Act. (6) Where more than one lease or lease on agricultural land are submitted for registration in the same property, the municipal agricultural office shall register: 1. the contract entered into the Registry Office with the earliest date; 2. the entered contract at the time of submission for registration of an entered and unlisted contract. (7) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall establish rules for the registration of lease contracts and the lease of agricultural land in the municipal agriculture services.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for § 4. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u57	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, guests of the eastern balcony are students from the school of Vasil Levski. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37g, para. 8 words will be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 6. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u60	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Bürhan Abase and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. There is a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 m, para. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added to
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 7 with a text which has been presented to the Members of the National Assembly. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u62	The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... A Art. 37p. (1) For establishment of permanent bees with more than 10 bee families, owners of bees registered under art. 8 of the Beekeeping Act, a right of use can be established on pastures, meres and meadows from the state and municipal land fund. The right to use shall be established on free undersized properties by complying with the requirements of the Beekeeping Act. The right to use shall be established without auction, at market prices determined by an independent valuer. (2) In the setting of a permanent apiary on pastures, measures and meadows from the state and municipal land fund shall be provided not less than 3 sq. m. and not more than 10 sq. m area of one bee family, with the apiary at a distance of not less than: 1. 10 km from a registered apiary for the production of elite bees and reserve bees; 2. 5 km from registered breeding bees for the production of tribal bee mothers; 3. 3 km from neighbouring bees, as well as from bees registered for breeding bees in a biological way. (3) The permanent bees shall be registered in accordance with art. 51, para. 1 and 3 of the Animal Health Act and Art. 8 of the Beekeeping Act. Hives and bee families shall be identified according to art. 51, para. 9 of the Animal Health Act. (4) The right to use under para. 1 shall be established by: 1. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests for pastures, meria and meadows from the state land fund; 2. The mayor of the municipality for pastures, meria and meadows from the municipal land fund. (5) For establishment of the right of use under para. 1 The owner of the apiary shall submit an application stating the period for which he wishes to be granted the right of use. The application shall be submitted to: 1. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests through the Director of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Rural Development at the location of the property in the cases under para. 4 t. 1. 2. the mayor of the respective municipality.. in the cases under para. 4 t. 2. [[Noise. The Members of the National Assembly shall speak to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u63	One moment, Mrs. Taneva, please stop here. My fellow Members, I support the right of Members of the National Assembly for free communication in this House, as long as this does not interfere with normal work. Please, the noise is a little louder. Please continue, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u64	In the cases referred to in para. 5, t. 1 on the basis of the application submitted, the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall complete a file to which they apply: 1. a document stating that the applicant has a registered establishment of a permanent apiary with more than 10 bee families, which is entered in the register under art. 8 of the Beekeeping Act; 2. a document of ownership of the property; 3. a market valuation of the property prepared by an independent valuer notified in writing by the applicant with a return receipt; 4. written consent of the applicant with the valuation of the property prepared by the independent valuer; 5. an opinion from the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, indicating the status, current status and use of the property; 6. other documents required by special laws. (7) In the cases under para. 5, t. 2 on the basis of the application submitted, a file to which they apply shall be complete: 1. a document stating that the applicant has a registered establishment of a permanent apiary with more than 10 bee families, which is entered in the register under art. 8 of the Beekeeping Act; 2. a market valuation of the property prepared by an independent valuer notified in writing by the applicant with a return receipt; 3. written consent of the applicant with the valuation of the property prepared by the independent valuer; 4. other documents required by special laws. (8) The authority under para. 5 shall rule on the application by issuing an order to establish a right to use or order a refusal. (9) The acts under para. 8 shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The price for establishing the right to use under para. 1 shall be paid within one month of the entry into force of the order establishing the right of use. Where the price is not paid within the specified period, the rights of the person in whose benefit the right of use is established shall be repaid. (11) On the basis of the order in force establishing the right of use and the payment made, the director of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture, respectively the mayor of the municipality, shall enter into a contract with the applicant. (12) The Treaties establishing the right of use on pastures, measures and meadows of the state and municipal land fund for the establishment of permanent bees with more than 10 bee families shall be concluded for a period not exceeding 10 years. (13) The Treaties of para. 12 shall be entered in the Registry Office at the location of the property and shall be registered in the respective Municipal Agriculture Office at the expense of the person to whom the right of use is established. (14) Persons who have entered into contracts for the right to use for the establishment of permanent bees with more than 10 bee families, after written consent of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, respectively, of the mayor of the municipality, may build temporary subsidiary buildings and facilities related to their activities which do not constitute constructions within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. (15) Within one month of the expiry of the contract or its early termination, the persons referred to in para. 14 remove the buildings and facilities built in the property. In the event of non-compliance with the obligation within the specified time limit, the ownership rights of the buildings and facilities shall be exercised by the owner of the property. (16) The right of use shall be terminated under the conditions of art. 11, para. 3 of the Beekeeping Act. (17) For accommodation or relocation of a temporary apiary within the meaning of the Beekeeping Act no right of use shall be established on pastures, meres and meadows from the state or municipal land fund, but permission shall be granted by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, respectively by the mayor of the municipality. The issue of an authorisation is requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A very complex procedure has been described in terms of how state municipal land can be provided for setting up bee families, which seems very difficult to work with regard to documents and the need to coordinate at different levels. What I would like to propose for a change in this text is related to the proposal under para. 2, where it is written in t. 3 that: "In the setting of permanent bees on pastures and measures 3 km from neighbouring bees, as well as from bees registered for raising bee families in a geared manner. If this hypothesis is perceived, this means that in a populated area, at most, one person may have the opportunity to use this procedure to remove the apiaries from the respective settlement, because 3 km is too long. The proposal I am making is that the 3 kilometers remain only for beekeeping, which are registered for raising bee families in a professional way and that the other cases are solved specifically. You know that we have adopted by a regulation of municipal councils to determine distances and the possibility to position bees in settlements and outside settlements, to assess according to what resources there are for bee breeding. Nowhere in this text do we comment on the possibility that there is enough grazing for these bee families that are inside or outside the settlement and it may be that the 3 kilometers are too long a distance for bee families, which are respectively grown in a way that is not biological. I am making this proposal to discuss and consider the three kilometers to remain only for biological bees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u67	Thank you. I'm just going to ask you one more time to make the text clear, and I get the text, but I'm asking you exactly the text you're proposing, art. 37p, para. 2, p. Three, three kilometers...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u68	Three kilometers from neighbouring bees registered for raising bee families in a perennial manner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u69	I mean, you're suggesting that I get involved as well as bees?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u70	It is thus clear that for bees which are not organically grown, this requirement does not apply. At least that's the way I see it, only for a biological 3 km, and for everyone else to be judged according to the rules in force that municipal councils accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. [[Definitions between President Emil Hristov and MP Svetla Bachvarova, away from the microphones.]] Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Professor Bachvarova's proposal for a change of art. 37p, para. 2, p. 3 in the way that was proposed by it, for a change in the text of t. 3. They voted 109 MPs: 56 against 1, abstention 52. The offer is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, but there's a problem with the system. The offer is not accepted in this case. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u72	Mr. Chairman, I propose a re-voting procedure. Keep in mind that this is another vote that does not mark my vote and in this case it was a "for" vote, and you see that it is fatal and therefore I ask for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. I will re-vote the proposal of the MP Professor Bachvarova for a change in the text of art. 37p, para. 2, p. 3. They voted 133 MPs: 116, none, abstention 17. The offer is accepted. Now I'm going to put the whole paragraph to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of § 8 with a text on a proposal from the Commission and the change that has just been voted on. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u74	According to § 7 the importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal received by the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova, made in accordance with the order of art. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In the Additional Provisions § 2c is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. For the purposes of this law: 1. "Passant farm animals' are: (a) large and small ruminants; (b) horses with official identification in BABBH, pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/262 of 17 February 2015 laying down rules in accordance with Council Directives 90/427/EEC and 2009/156/EC as regards methods for the identification of equidae (the passport Regulation for equidae), excluding horses intended for sport. 2. The establishment is an establishment registered under the animal health law in which grazing livestock animals are kept continuously, except registered establishments on properties with a permanent use of pastures and meres.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 7, which shall become § 9. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u76	There is a proposal received by the National Representative Bürhan Abase and a group of MPs: In § 2g of the Additional Provisions, add a new sentence with the following content: The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u77	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that I made to the property restored to real borders not to participate in the agreements for use or not to enter into the arrays of use, in my opinion, firstly, is very useful and, secondly, very constructive, as it concerns the fates of thousands of small, small, poor farmers who own such properties. Usually these properties are small, remote from the municipal and district center and are owned in most cases by many elderly people. By the way, the measure was not new, it acted until 2015, then it was repealed. The repeal of this measure gives rise to very much tension among farmers because they have to submit a declaration annually on how they intend to process their land. Since they are not thousands of acres and have neither administrative capacity nor legal capacity to monitor the deadlines, nor the physical opportunity to travel to the district or municipal center, which is usually 70 km away, this creates tension among them. This proposal of mine excludes these lands recovered within real limits from the commitment to submit this declaration. In fact, what's going on? Owner of agricultural land, usually undersized, which was worked by his ancestors before the formation of TTZS, is currently working by him and there is no problem. At some point a tenant comes and says that the land will work this year because there is an agreement for use and this land is included in its array. This creates tension between the tenant and this small owner of agricultural land. With my proposal, I wanted to prevent this conflict so that we could regulate this relationship before we got into a situation where we could be famous somewhere that some people fought and slaughtered in the field. So if I do not now accept this proposal, I beg my colleagues from the Ministry of the next amendment or the next law that you will propose to settle land relations, that this be borne in mind, because it is indeed a problem that exists in the country and it must be dealt with in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech has to do with supporting what my colleague Abase offers. The reason is that especially in southern Bulgaria, in the Rhodopes, there are small plots that farmers, due to the fact that they are not informed, they are not informed by both the mayors and by the mayors, and by not making a declaration, their lands enter into agreements and these agreements can lead to the provision of the land in far-reaching places. There's something else I'd like to add here. Under the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, tobacco producers, which are also one of those who use small parcels, must submit a corresponding request for land registration. They, if they have filed a registration but have not filed a declaration, may still enter into this hypothesis. So it is really necessary to review fully what is proposed in the Law on Property and in the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products in order not to get a coliseum between the texts. It is a fact that many of these farmers are processing land that has been rebuilt on real property and there are too few parcels to be moved in any form into the respective land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u81	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u82	I think it is wise to make the exception, because the general rule is for larger, larger, larger pieces of land, but here the nature of these places is such that sometimes it concerns several hundred square meters. They are scattered, they are pieced together and the livelihood of local people very often depends on such scattered over several pieces of land. Their inclusion in the common table would not be wise. From this point of view, the rule exists, but let us make the corresponding distinction and the exception that will be useful and proper, which will really protect from conflicts that arise and which are very often present. In order to avoid these conflicts, we can take things out of the general rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Debate on the proposal made by fellow Member of Parliament Bürhan Abass also took place in the Committee on Agriculture and Food at the second reading of the Bill. I will ask, after my speech and experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, also from the stands to say their intentions and how we ended the debate. A comprehensive agricultural legislation is being prepared in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which we expect autumn, where this problem must find development and solution. Yes, such a problem exists with small owners of agricultural land which do not declare within the specified period under the current Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land that the property will work within real limits as it is restored, and they enter the arrays of use. However, if we now accept this text, what would happen? On 15 May 2018, the application for support for the agricultural land used was concluded without sanction and the procedures for determining these arrays were completed. The philosophy of comad agricultural land use was introduced a few years ago when these declarations were introduced. In the first year of the implementation of the new texts were indeed the most problematic because many farmers who work small-scale real estate within real borders were not informed of the existing new obligations. Usually there's a problem, but it gets smaller every year. This is a fact of statistics that the Ministry can also present in relation to the fact that farmers are more trained, more informed by each passing year. However, the adoption of this text so, in its part, in the context of the Law will call into question and new problems will arise in the now ending campaign on direct payments, secondly, when adopting one such text at the moment, there should be other texts that would solve problems that will arise. That is why the debate that has taken place in the Commission has been concluded that autumn, when we are presented with the joint legislation, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests must find a solution to the issue of declarations and small owners, who, due to lack of information and lack of administrative capacity, do not submit these declarations and create the hypothesis that their small estates should enter the arrays of use in order not to have these conflicts and the rights of all owners and users to be resolved. In my opinion, the solution must cover several aspects in order for it to work, and at the moment, the text adopted so, in practice, the philosophy of comatose land use will also be compromised and will create a conflict now, at the end of the campaign. I therefore propose that we abstain from the text and that this problem find a complete solution in the act that will present us in the autumn. I therefore asked, since I am, after all, a Member of the National Assembly, that what was stated by the Ministry in the Commission debate be stated in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Replies to Ms. Taneva's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Bürhan Abase and a group of MPs. They voted 126 MPs: 32, Against 1, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u86	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u87	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on the name of the division which the Commission supports. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u88	According to § 8 of the importer there is a proposal received by the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Christian Mitev, which the Commission generally supports. There is a proposal received by the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... (1) Contract for the rental of agricultural land concluded until the date of entry into force of this law which does not comply with the requirements of art. 4a and 4b can be confirmed by the owner with a notary certified signature accompanied by a copy of the contract. Where the property is co-owned and concluded for more than one year, the declaration shall be submitted by the co-owner or co-owners holding more than 25 per cent of the ideal parts of the joint property or by a person authorised by them by a notarised explicit power of attorney. (2) The Declaration under para. 1 shall be submitted to the municipal agriculture office at the location of the property within one month of the entry into force of this law. (3) In case within the term under para. 2 no declaration has been lodged, the lease on agricultural land shall be permanently deleted at the Registry Office and at the respective Municipal Agriculture Office after the expiry of the business year. (4) The deletion of a contract in the Registry Office shall be carried out at the disposal of the Registry Judge, on the basis of a notification by the Head of the Municipal Agriculture Office concerned, accompanied by a copy of the contract. For deletion of the entry no fee is due. (5) The deletion of registered contracts in the respective municipal agriculture office shall be carried out at the disposal of the head of the municipal agriculture office by 10 October of the current business year. (6) When, at the date of entry into force of this law, the contract under para. 1 is not registered in the municipal agriculture office, the same shall not be registered until it is brought into compliance with the requirements of art. 4a and 4b.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u89	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a proposal to supplement § 10 in the version of the Commission with new para. 4 and 5 with the following content: The management rights of agricultural land granted by a power of attorney until the date of entry into force of this law may be confirmed by the persons referred to in art. 4a with a new power of attorney in compliance with the requirements of this law. The confirmation shall be carried out within the period under para. 2. (5) In case the confirmation under para. 4 has not been done within a time limit, the lease on agricultural land concluded on the basis of the relevant power of attorney shall be permanently deleted in the Registry Office and in the respective municipal agricultural office after the expiry of the business year. The reasons and the idea are to give more protection in the hypotheses in which in the newly created art. 4a we have authorization to carry out management actions. As a result, the power of attorney has a new lease, but the owner's will has been vitiated for one reason or another. He does not know that he has such an authorisation or has been misled at the time of the conclusion of this unilateral transaction and has not intended to grant that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I understand that after para. 3 you add paragraphs 4 and 5 and the rest are renumbered. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on Mr. Mitev's proposal to add after para. 3 new paragraphs 4 and 5 and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered to para. 8 They voted 121 MPs: 116, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 8, which becomes § 10, with the new paras. 4 and 5 which we voted on just now and the Commission supports. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u92	Under § 9 of the importer and option I, and option II, the Commission does not support the text and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u93	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the motion that § 9 be rejected. Vote 128 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u94	According to § 10 the importer has received a proposal from the MPs Dessislava Atanasova and Christian Mitev, which the Commission supports in principle. There is a proposal received by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Landing in Agriculture (prom., SG No. Art....) 3 is amended as follows: Art. 3. (1) The lease contracts, as well as the agreements on their amendment or termination, shall be concluded in writing with a notary verification of the content and signatures of the parties at the same time. In the course of the notary production the notary performs a check to comply with the requirements of para. 4 and apply to the notary case sketches of the property subject to the contract. The drawings shall be declared for receipt by remote access to the information system of the cadastre and property register or shall be provided by a party to the notary production. Where there is no cadastral map and cadastral registers entered into force for the land concerned, sketches of the properties issued by the respective municipal agriculture office at the location of the property shall be attached to the deed. (2) The lease contracts, as well as the agreements on their amendment or termination, concluded in writing with a notary certification of the contents and signatures of the Parties, shall be entered into the Registry Office and shall be registered in the respective Municipal Agriculture Office. To the act to be entered shall apply those issued in accordance with para. 1 sketches of the properties. (3) For registration of the lease contracts in the municipal agriculture offices shall apply the rules under art. 37b, para. 7 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. (4) A lease contract, as well as an agreement on its amendment or termination, may be concluded with an owner, co-owner of agricultural land whose ownership is more than 50 percent of the ideal parts of a joint property, or with a person authorised by an owner or co-owners holding a total of more than 50 percent of the ideal parts of the joint property. The authorisation must be subject to a notarised explicit power of attorney. In these cases, relations between co-owners shall be settled according to art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. (5) Notwithstanding the agreement of the parties to the lease of agricultural land, the renter may re-lease the land or part thereof after obtaining express written consent from the renter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u95	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 10, which shall become § 11, on the Commission's report. They voted 123 MPs: 123, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u97	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12 and the Commission shall support it. They voted 116 MPs: 116, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u98	According to § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs to drop out................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u99	Statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! With what is proposed by importers in the Co-operatives Act, we believe a substantial change has occurred. It relates to the fact that, under the current Co-operative Law, the land with which owners and co-operators enter the cooperative was not required at this stage notary certification, but also entries in the Registration Office. This entry, notary certification, is proposed to apply to member co-operators in existing agricultural cooperatives, as well as to cooperatives in the Central Cooperative Union. We object to this proposal because we believe that this is a retreat to the legislation in force and a change of the Law on Cooperatives through the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. However, it is the co-operators who voluntarily entered the association. Entering the association, they enter with share capital and also with the land. There have never been any objections to the management of the land by cooperatives, nor has there been the payment of the rents. This additional requirement will lead to a serious problem for agricultural cooperatives, which must also provide additional funding for this activity, as required by the Law. In addition, it seems to me that the reasons the Ministry of Agriculture presented, rejecting this text, are quite untenable, and they referred to the fact that there was not enough transparency about what the land in agricultural cooperatives was. First of all, that's not true. What does transparency mean? Let's see who the owners are and have access to them accordingly, so that in some form for agricultural cooperatives the land of those who belong to them can be created in prerequisites to be taken away from them. I have observations on the possibility that some of the large tenants, especially from Northern Bulgaria, would try to take land from agricultural cooperatives, offering far higher rents than what was in the cooperatives. Some of the landowners have been misled, but I must tell you that they returned to agricultural cooperatives as early as the second or third year because of the fact that, by participating in the land in shares of the capital they have in the cooperative, they have the opportunity to have a better return and more security of the income, it is about small and medium-sized farmers, we are not talking about large farmers. Therefore, our proposal is to drop the requirement that the land be declared in such a way as for all other leases and leases and remain in place. It is a fact that the Co-operative Act needs to be amended and that this change should analyse all cases and possibilities so that it can be implemented in a way that protects the owners and founders of agricultural cooperatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u101	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Replies to Professor Bachvarova's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 123 MPs: 37 against 6, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 12, which becomes § 13 and is supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 97 against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u102	A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Bürhan Abase and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Beekeeping Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 12 After the words of the Orders, the title for ownership and use of agricultural land is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u103	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the creation of a new § 14, which the Commission supports. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u104	The Commission proposes to establish § 15 and § 16: ...... 15.................................................... (1) Tariffs under art. 85, para. 3 of the Law on notary and notary activities and under art. 1 of the State Fees Act shall be implemented in accordance with this law within two months of its entry into force. (2) Until the tariff under art. 85, para. 3 of the Law on notaries and notary activities in accordance with this law, for verification of the content and signatures of the parties under leases and leases on agricultural land is collected a simple notary fee in the amount of BGN 10. for a contract. Upon simultaneous verification of the content and signatures of the parties, the fee shall be collected once. (3) Until the tariff under art. 1 of the Law on State Fees in accordance with this Law, a fee of 10 BGN shall be charged for the entry of leases and leases of agricultural land in the offices of the Registry. for a contract. § 16. The permanent grasslands granted to farmers for the implementation of a multiannual commitment under measure 11 "Biologic farming' or under the heading "Restoration and maintenance of permanent grasslands of high natural value (RA) " of measure 10 "Agro-environment and climate' of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 "2020' shall be determined for the period from the publication of this law until the completion of the commitment made on the basis of the number of kept horses as of 1 February 2018, irrespective of whether they are under selective control.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u105	Statements? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! As the proposal was accepted that horses should be pasture animals and are registered establishments, § 16 should change, and the last words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The proposal is:.. concerning whether they are under selective control...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u107	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Professor Bachvarova: the last line after the comma.........of whether they are under selective control........................................................................ Vote 119 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We now vote on the newly born § 15 and § 16. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u108	According to § 13 of the importer there is a proposal received by the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal, with the exception of § 9, which shall enter into force from the 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u109	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the version of § 13, which shall become § 17, on the Commission's report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, and with this the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 5 April 2018. The bill was adopted on the first vote on 25 April 2018. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code, No 854-01-20, submitted by Svetlana Angelova, Plamen Nunev, Irena Dimova, Dimitar Gechev, Kalin Popovski, Rosen Zhivkov and Ralitsa Dobreva, adopted on the first vote on 25 April 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u111	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I vote on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u112	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Sirakov and Rumen Genov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a, para. The fourth sentence is amended as follows: The normal duration of working hours is 8 hours and the parties to the contract of employment can also negotiate work for half of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u113	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u115	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote § 2 and 3 which the Commission shall support. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u116	The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147, para. 2 words. 1...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u117	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the newly created § 4, which the Commission proposes and supports. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Law at second reading. Colleagues, since we have a very long report ahead of us, I suggest we give it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u118	Plus, BSP's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u119	Yeah, the BSP guys are gone. Colleagues, one message: An exhibition of the artist Hristo Panev, established author in contemporary Bulgarian art, will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. Hristo Panev is a member of the International Academy of Arts. His works are stored in collections in Austria, Belgium, Germany and the United States. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u120	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's move on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE COMMISSION'S PRESENTATION OF THE PUBLIC SUPERVISION OF THE REGISTERED AUDITORS, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION'S BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS WELL as THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION'S BUDGET AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATES. Is there a representative of the Committee on Budget and Finance to present the draft decision on the adoption of the procedural rules? Maybe Mrs. Eugenia Angelova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u121	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 3 May 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of a new President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors with a view to the expiry of the current President's term of office, Mrs. Vanya Doneva, on 10 October 2016. According to art. 73, para. 1 of the Act on Independent Financial Audit The National Assembly must elect a President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 19 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and accept the following: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 73, para. 1 of the Act on Independent Financial Audit and Art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors and the submission of their documents. 1. Proposal for a candidate for the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 72, para. 2 of the Independent Financial Audit Act on the existence of Bulgarian citizenship "Annex No 2 to the Decision'; (c) Declaration of Independence under art. 72, para. 2, p. 4 of the Independent Financial Audit Act and of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model of the Annex 4 to the Decision; (e) a detailed CV; (f) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for a completed higher legal or economic education with an acquired educational and qualification degree of a Master's degree; (g) a criminal record; (h) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has knowledge in the areas related to the financial audit and has at least 5 years of professional experience in those areas. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 4. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Commission, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Applicants shall be submitted in alphabetical order to their own names by the importers of the proposals within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates shall present their concept of the Commission's public oversight activities of registered auditors within 20 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Commission shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair in alphabetical order of their own names within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Commission shall present the views and questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of candidates in alphabetical order of their own names and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. V. Election of the President of the Public Supervision Commission of the registered auditors of the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes during the re-voting as well as in cases where no candidates have been submitted or no candidates have been admitted to the hearing, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the Decision are next.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Ladies and gentlemen, guests in Parliament are participating in the 50th competition "Tsaritsa rose" from the program of the 115th Rose Festival in Kazanlak, as well as guests from Blagoevgrad district. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There are no speakers. We're going to vote. We are voting for a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for the selection of the National Assembly with an importer, the Budget and Finance Committee. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE SERVICES AGREEMENT TO HELP THE ENFORCEMENT OF PROJECTS BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT submitted by the Council of Ministers. Please read the first report, Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u123	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on services to support the implementation of projects between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April This Decision shall At a meeting held on 3 May 2018, the Environment and Waters Commission examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Supporting the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Waters was attended by: Minister Neno Dimov; Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov; Valeria Kalcheva, Acting Director-General of the Directorate-General of the Operational Program The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Neno Dimov and Mrs Valeria Kalcheva. According to the presentation by the importers, by decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 February 2018, the draft Agreement was approved and the Minister of Environment and Water was authorised to hold the negotiations and sign the Agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). It was signed on 7 March 2018 in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the EBRD for partnership and support in the absorption of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 - 2020. The objective of the Agreement is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment for the update of the ex ante assessment of financial instruments under Operational Programme "Environment 2014" and to study a wider range of funding options, including a revision of the findings and conclusions of the initial ex ante assessment of financial instruments with regard to Priority Axis 1. It also specified the issues concerning the mechanisms, availability of resources in the OPEC under Priority Axis 1 "Waters" and the need for assistance under the Agreement for other mechanisms and types of support under Priority Axis 2 The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva asked a question about the phase in which the financial instruments are to be developed and proposed by the Fund Fund in the sectors of Water and Waste. In response, Mrs. Kalcheva pointed out that under Priority Axis "Water" is actively working with colleagues from the Fund Fund, expected closure by the end of May, conclusion of a financial agreement and transfer of the first tranche of 25% in June "July." It noted that this is also expected to coincide with the announcement of the procedure for the construction of the water infrastructure, to which 14 consolidated water service operators will be invited, i.e. the purpose is for the two processes to go parallel. Regarding Priority Axis 2 "Dumpage" Ms. Kalcheva noted that the guarantee product does not cause interest among businesses, which is why it is expected that other mechanisms and more attractive forms of support will be offered as part of the tasks under the EBRD Agreement. After the discussion and vote, the Committee on the Environment proposed by 18 votes for the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April. This appropriation is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Support for the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April This Decision shall At its meeting held on 2 May 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Supporting the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Valeria Kalcheva, Acting Director-General of the Directorate-General of the Operational Program. The draft was presented by Mrs. Kalcheva, who noted that at a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 20 April 2018, the draft Agreement on Support Services for the implementation of projects signed on 7 March 2018 under the conditions of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly was approved. She pointed out that the ratification of the Draft Law is in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. Under this agreement, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is envisaged to review the ex ante assessment of financial instruments under the Operational Programme Following a comprehensive review, including an analysis of changes in market conditions and public investment needs since 2014, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will carry out update activities on the Investment Strategy for Financial Instruments under these axes. The ratification of the Support Services Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Services for Supporting the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, no report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Services to Support the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April This Decision shall 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that a second vote be considered Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Supporting the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Is there a reverse opinion and opinion? No. We are going to vote on the proposal for a second vote on the proposed ratification bill. They voted 104 MPs: 104, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. Please, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Services to Support the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Services Agreement to support the implementation of projects between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A single member. Ratification of the Support Services Agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed on 7 March This Decision shall Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u130	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Services for Supporting the Implementation of Projects between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with Article one and only paragraph. They voted 105 MPs: 105, with no objection and no abstention. The proposal is accepted, with which the item on the agenda is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. Please submit the report to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 854-01-27, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 3 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 854-01-27, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. He pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Bill are aimed at facilitating the persons who received Bulgarian citizenship under a light procedure under the order of art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, which are now registered in the register of the population of the region of Sredets. In Sofia, they can make their first address registration at a permanent address in the country, and in these cases the restrictions relating to the number of persons who can inhabit a home do not apply. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils expressed support for the proposed changes. The draft is also supported by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and in the opinion presented to the Commission it is proposed that the systematic place of the proposed changes be in art. Article 92, not Article 92. 99a, as proposed in the Project. During the discussion the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes. Proposals were also made to discuss the possibility of finding a solution to the problems of registration of homeless people who, due to the lack of an address registration, cannot obtain identification documents and use certain social and health services. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. There is no report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Do the importers wish to make their views known? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the proposed legislative change is expressed in excluding the restrictions relating to the number of persons who can live in one house at a first address registration at a permanent address made by Bulgarian citizens who received Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. The change is subject to the following facts and circumstances. First, when applying for Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship people prove Bulgarian origin most often through a kinship with great-grandmother or great-grandfather who have already died. Therefore, those who received Bulgarian citizenship in order to comply with the requirements of the Law on Civil Registration on Address Registration resort to searching for an address in settlements close to the Bulgarian-Macedonian border. It is apparent that such addresses are mostly in the districts of Blagoevgrad and Kyustendil. In accordance with art. 93, para. 4 of the Law on Civil Registration Bulgarian citizens living abroad who are not registered in the register of the population and cannot indicate a permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria are entered in the register of the population of the region of Sofia. The quoted provision makes it difficult for persons who received Bulgarian citizenship under art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, except purely geographically, and administratively, in view of the large volume of work and the large number of residents for administrative services in the said area. These fellow citizens have had to travel there several times, which is also linked to an increase in their financial costs. Next, Art. 93, para. 4 of the Law on Civil Registration is in close contact with art. 93, para. 5 of the same law states: "The permanent address of the citizens is also an address for correspondence with the authorities of the government and the authorities of the local self-government. " In this regard until the last amendment of the Civil Registration Act of 21 July 2015 as a permanent address could also be declared a post office box and art. 99a concerned only and only the current address. Moreover, almost all newly obtained Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship states through an address card as a current address abroad, which once again shows that they are difficult to take advantage of the provided by art. 93, para. 4 of the Law on Civil Registration Opportunity. By submitting a current address abroad, they shall comply with the requirement of art. 96 of the Law on Civil Registration, namely: "Bulgarian citizen living abroad, states a current address in the country in which he lives, before the authorities under art. 92, para. 1 in their permanent address, thus limiting their electoral rights to a minimum, that is, they cannot vote in local elections and in elections for Members of the European Parliament. The following motivates us to propose the proposed addition to art. 99a, which will facilitate our fellow citizens who have acquired Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, without hindering the main purpose of the provision to prevent the negative phenomenon related to the electoral process, as is the so-called "election tourism." We believe that the requirement to drop the restriction only in the cases of first address registration at the current address of the acquired Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 is quite a guarantee for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to express my attitude to the bill tabled. The attitude is completely positive. The bill was the result of the mutual work of colleagues from our parliamentary group and colleagues from the United Patriarchs. Indeed, as the importer pointed out, this problem reflects seriously in the districts of Kyustendil and Blagoevgrad. I want and take the floor because my colleague Daniela Saveklieva is not present in plenary and cannot express any considerations in this regard. I would like to thank for her work and the initiative of the mayors of Blagoevgrad region. We believe that this will improve the registration regime as well as the control so that we have a positive circumstance with regard to the drawing up of the registers of the population, the verification of the actual address, and, respectively, the drawing up of the electoral lists. I appeal for support under the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Replies to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, a very interesting amendment and supplement to the Law, a law which in 2015 aroused very serious debates in this House, and today I do not know why so everyone looks at waste to pass. But let me remind you what this is all about. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We offered: Bulgarian citizens who have been destroyed by their houses; Bulgarian citizens who do not have the opportunity to be registered anywhere; Bulgarian citizens who do not have personal documents and cannot benefit from health services; Bulgarian citizens who cannot register for their own good and, if they commit any crimes, cannot be found. Because of all this, we have proposed that these people be registered at a business address. Then it was said that our minorities, understand including the homeless, not only the other minorities, were ignored and we said that....................................... there is no such concept.................................... Now it suddenly turns out that there is a business address of citizens who for the first time acquire Bulgarian citizenship, for which our doors are open and welcome, and they are registered in the municipality of Sredets. MPs from the DPS have asked us a question: how many are they? The Ministry has an answer to our MPs who say that they do not control this process and do not know how many people are registered at a business address. At the same time, the demolition of blocks and houses of minorities continues and these people cannot go and register in the municipality due to the restriction, which in 2015, together with the left-hand side and GERB you accepted, and now you want to make an exception. Colleagues, this exception, note where it should be close to the Macedonian border, close to these municipalities, where citizens can come to be registered. Despite the Law we adopted in 2015, we will allow them and will not have restrictions on a requirement of 13 sq. m area of anyone who lives there. The concerns and doubts he has when obtaining Bulgarian citizenship; the investigations made by French and international journalists; the accusations that are there that in giving Bulgarian citizenship have illegal participation ministers, deputy prime ministers and so on "You by this law already legitimize it, regulate it." There is no way, colleagues, except to do when you know that the registration in any municipality will change and you will really introduce the electoral tourism on which this text was adopted then. The explanations that are required for local elections are sedentary and, you see, they will not be able to participate in them and in the European elections, this is not the case for parliamentary elections. I ask myself: is there anyone from the importers today to stand here before us and say, first of all, why do you want in Kyustendil and in Blagoevgrad to be registered? And, secondly, can one of you come out and explain to us if we register the Bulgarian citizens who have had their homes torn down, what would we break then? Therefore, colleagues, I believe this bill is lobbying. In it there is no concern for Bulgarian citizens who will receive Bulgarian citizenship for the first time. This bill is discriminatory, and that is why we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any lines to Mr. Atalay's statement? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u139	Dear Mr. Atalay, I will not answer you whether this law is lobbying, but what is once again the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing and debating on a topic that concerns Bulgarian national interests at a time when there is a visible convergence between our compatriots who live in two countries divided in Bulgaria and Macedonia, when thousands of people wish to acquire Bulgarian citizenship and Bulgarian passports, when the protection of national interests requires and such drafts such as the one we are going to vote on, and I am convinced that all colleagues, probably without your political formation, will vote on it, you once again confirm our old thesis that the DPS never defends and has not defended the Bulgarian national interests. That's indicative, that's a fact. I cannot explain what is insane and what is wrong with you people who have Bulgarian self-awareness to be able to acquire the opportunities that we offer in the Bill. Therefore, let it be heard clearly and loudly from the platform of the National Assembly: on every subject that affects Bulgarians abroad, which affects the national interest of the Bulgarian country, which speaks about the unity of the nation and about the support of our compatriots, who for a number of historical and other reasons have remained outside the borders of Bulgaria, the DPS was against. Therefore, I confirm once again: DPS is not a Bulgarian national responsible political force. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u140	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to replicate Mr Atalay with regard to the following several of his statements, which I find incorrect and unfounded, namely: I believe that the provision that my fellow Members have proposed has nothing to do with election tourism, but quite the contrary. Under the current rule, there was an artificial swelling of electoral lists of persons who received Bulgarian citizenship, but do not live at the address and probably they are not in Bulgaria, and do not participate in the elections. That's how they got some crooked election lists, and they formed, I'd say, a bunch of polling stations. The proposed amendment aims at overcoming precisely this disproportion. I would like to point out that the rule proposed works equally. It works equally for all Bulgarians of Bulgarian origin from Macedonia who receive Bulgarian citizenship as well as for all Bulgarians of Bulgarian origin who from Turkey would receive Bulgarian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, as Mr. Kirilov explained clearly, the Law is not lobbying if we do not mention that there is some type of lobbying for people with Bulgarian self-consciousness who should all support us. However, I am astonished by this tyranny of the National Assembly, the same we listened to during the meeting of our parliamentary committee on local self-government. Once again there were accusations why 2015 did not support something, but why not submit something. Dear Mr. Atalay, honourable colleagues of the DPS, if you cannot write your own laws well enough, there is an opportunity to consult our more competent colleagues! You then produced a law that was simply without any meaning, some business address. But what is this business address, but where will this business address be? You can't have preeminent lawmen throwing themselves in the gym just to please the gypsy electorate, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u144	Mr. Vesselinoff, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u145	...to accumulate assets with our activity from the parliamentary tribune! Mr. Atalay, introduce a normal law and we will normally discuss it! But you cannot expect us to write for you the laws that you want to bring into the Chamber of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Your lines show you're worried. [[Laughter]] . It is clear from your lines from the loud coming out here that you are hardly the only one who thinks about the Bulgarians abroad and then to go out to say: well, in the same order is given citizenship to those who are in Turkey... This shows that you are not convinced of your rightness. And to what we brought in 2015 and now, Mr. Veselinov, you were opposed to registering people at the same address! Now you're making an exception because you have a benefit, you have some lobbying interests! The discrimination is that you give for the first time Bulgarian citizenship, and those who live in Bulgaria discriminate against them either by education you give them rights or by jobs, tear down their houses, and these problems will come on us someday. Your children and we will fight these problems that you are creating right now. And as for the quality laws of this law, which you brought into parliament last week and blackmailed GERB to support you, which you passed here, Bulgaria will pay for it over 2 billion euros! If those aren't lobbying laws, if that's what you're thinking, after you pass it, counting foreigners, and how and how... The French newspapers describe with what money people take Bulgarian citizenship in Bulgaria and if this is not true, if this is a properly written bill, if today you prove that you do not act discriminatoryly and GERB support you, then the blame and the reason is not in you at all! The reason is in GERB, the reason is in Boyko Borisov, in Mr. Tsvetanov. Because of being in power for a long time, you pass discriminatory laws, you make a law by which you believe that in the next elections those thousands who will take Bulgarian citizenship for the first time will be included in your electoral lists. That's what this is about, that's what we're talking about, colleagues. You are harmful not only to Bulgaria, you are harmful to yourself... [[Noise and booing from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u148	Mr. Atalay, please, no offense to the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u149	... You're also harmful to your children. You're harmful to the bills that... I tell you once again: with your policy you are harming Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u150	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018. Vote 124 MPs: 112 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. There is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Dinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 3 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. He pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Bill were initiated by the municipalities and aimed to resolve the practical problems created in the work of the municipal councils, caused by incorrect interpretation in the last few months by separate control bodies and courts in the country of the provisions of the Law establishing the quorum for regularity of the meetings of municipal councils and for the adoption of decisions. During the discussion, the MPs supported the proposed changes, paying attention to the fact that the bill was tabled by MPs, members of the Commission, by all political forces. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Association of Presidents of the Municipal Councils expressed strong support for the proposed changes. Their speeches drew attention to the problems created in the work of municipal councils by the controversial practice of the courts, and with the proposed by the Bill changes the existing problems will be overcome. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 21 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u153	Honourable Members, Madam President, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs The draft was reviewed at the Committee on Legal Affairs meeting held on 2 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Blagoy Stanchev. Secretary of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov, who pointed out that it introduced amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration concerning the necessary quorum and majority in the decision-making of municipal councils. Mr. Veselinov noted that the Law aims to align the interpretation of the provisions, pointing out that the practice of the courts in recent years calls into question the stability of the acts of municipal councils. Mr. Stanchev outlined the principle support of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria for the Draft Law, adding that with case-law a number of important decisions of municipal councils in the country are being created. Members of the National Assembly Mitev, Kirilov, Lazarov, Zarkov and Milkov took part in the discussion. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Milkov expressed reservations about the Bill and noted that there are other mechanisms for proper interpretation and implementation of art. 27 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. They focused on the need for a preliminary examination of cases where there is conflicting caselaw. Mitev and Kirilov expressed their support to the submitted bill, saying that action is needed to limit the contradictions in the case-law. Lazarov noted that it is necessary to determine whether the decisions given in the misinterpretation of the norm of art. 27 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration are accidental or is a permanent caselaw of Chambers of the Supreme Administrative Court, recalling the possibility of institutional control. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, 1 vote against the House and 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Will there be a presentation of an importer's opinion? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! I will use a few minutes of those of the importers with the clear awareness that I am not the main initiator of this bill, as you know, it is signed by representatives of all the political forces in the Commission, which I chair. His initiator is a serious problem in the work of municipal councils. We were called at a regular meeting, which we hold with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and with the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils. We, as well as our colleagues in the Legal Committee, listened to the heated debates there, initially felt that there was no need for a legislative initiative to explain obvious things about us. In the few months between this meeting and the introduction of the Bill, however, there were very many judicial decisions that are in one direction and follow formal logic, which is very strange for anyone who ever studied mathematics at 11 municipal councillors, the courts say that half of 11 is five and a half, but since there is no half an advisor, half is 6. After half is six, more than half is seven. And from 50% + 1 advisor, we come to a majority of 63.. 64% in small municipal councils, which is sometimes difficult to achieve. On the basis of this formal basis, in practice, all solutions are already under attack in a large number of districts in the country, both the Prosecutor's Office and the district governors. In this regard, perhaps the text is a bit clumsy, difficult for the legal thought, however, beyond any doubt it puts the importance of the majority of.. more than half, as stated in the Law. I ask you, without any political difference, to support this bill. If we have to look for some more perfect... to look for them between the first and second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote. We are voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-28, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, today the Council for Electronic Media elects a President and cannot be provided with a representative. So I suggest point eight be point one for tomorrow. Please vote on this proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 71 against 6, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE LOCAL ENFORCEMENT. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 2 February 2018. There are no reports on the proposed bill. Do the importers wish to present the bill? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u157	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will present to your attention the reasons for our proposal to supplement the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence. The proposed bill aims to ensure a higher level of protection for victims of domestic violence, and the measure we propose is in cases where such violence is committed and women need support to be placed in crisis centres. The proposed legislative change establishes a requirement for the National Programme for Prevention and Protection of Domestic Violence to contain as a measure a mandatory requirement the construction, maintenance and management of such centres. So the existing program is currently not working well enough. We therefore propose to establish a minimum number of crisis centres. The proposal introduces in the Bulgarian legislation requirements of art. 20, 22, 23 and 26 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which has gained popularity such as the Istanbul Convention. In this way, the non-compliance with this Convention could not negatively affect the legislative framework in force in Bulgaria with regard to the prevention of domestic violence and the support given to the victims. In fact, Bulgaria has long been urged to take similar measures in view of one of the recommendations made to our country by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women since July 2012, acting under the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. In the part on violence against women, the Committee points out that our country should provide sufficient shelters for women victims of domestic violence and their children, accessibility to them and financial means to build them and support non-governmental organisations supporting such shelters and other forms of support for victims of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? The first statement has been requested. Come in, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor of speech to highlight the following. We supported the inclusion of this item on the agenda at the request of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria and not only in order to show respect for the will of our opposition colleagues, but because, without regard to the reasons and reasons which led colleagues to submit this bill, we believe that we should support not only some but all the principles for combating violence against women and children. For this reason, I will not comment on whether this measure is fragmented, whether or not this measure is being applied at present. I submit that this measure is currently applicable in the district centres where there is such a possibility. I could testify to the policy of Sofia Municipality in this direction. I hope that in every district centre and in most settlements there will be found such centers to assist victims and victims of violence. We will support this bill in principle with the clear awareness that it needs detailed financial justification and to secure the means to implement this measure. I am speaking in principle and as one of the successive supporters of the Istanbul Convention because I expect and will continue to expect the opinion of the Constitutional Court on our request for interpretation of the Convention because we believe that if we ratify this Convention, we will have a complete institutional instrumental framework for implementing all instruments for protecting victims from such violence and for preventing and preventing such violence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u161	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kirilov! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the position expressed that the GERB parliamentary group will support the bill. Regarding your concern about the financial framework, we believe that the bill itself is adopted on time in the preparation of the Budget Act. In four district cities in Sofia and three more, there is this service. These are special social services that are delegated state activities. Now that we give our legislative will that it can be applied, municipalities will react quickly, provide premises, make decisions to municipal councils, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will have to work out the standard, and we will allow for preparation and work in this area. So do not worry that it is not what is part of the justification and in the reasons as a financial framework, it must come from the state to be able to actually become a standard anywhere. You know, there are a lot of non-governmental organizations that also offer this service, but we'd better do it. Our entire territory is not covered with such capacity by non-governmental organizations, but by creating the service the municipality can outsource it, assign it. So I think today will be a good day for the treatment of Bulgarian women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there another line? Mr. Gokov, come in. You have a second line to Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, it is probably not very logical to give you a line because I thank you for your support, only that you said a few things that we should perhaps clarify with you. First of all, thank you again for the support you have for the Bill. That shows we're on the right track. I don't know if you remember, rather you, that we are providing these bills, both this and the other, which we put in response to the fact that we believe that the Bulgarian National Assembly should not ratify the Istanbul Convention because it, along with the fight against violence and domestic violence against women, includes some other positions and situations unacceptable to our society. Though you said you wouldn't comment on it, but I mentioned that it was fragmented. Yes, it is fragmented, and we have no claim that it is comprehensive, because along with it we propose other changes to the laws that meet the expectations of the Istanbul Convention on non-violence without introducing other controversial texts. You say: yes, this measure is being proposed now. Indeed, it may be available in Sofia, but not elsewhere. That is why we want with this bill to necessarily determine a minimum number of such centres for which the state is responsible, not NGOs, and that is why we have inserted this text. As for the financial framework, I think that the state will in no way confuse it, all the more so that these centres can be financed under different programmes with different national funding. Thank you again for your support and I hope to adopt these texts unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u164	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Third line? I won't. You're not going to take advantage of your right to a doppelganger, Mr. Kirilov? Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u165	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In addition to what my fellow Members have said in the lines they have expressed, I would like to mention a few important things relating to our legislation. The crisis centre is a social service of a resident type that is provided in the community. The crisis centre within the meaning of § 1, para. 1, t. 25 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act is: a complex of social services for children and/or persons suffering from violence, trafficking or other form of exploitation, which are provided for up to 6 months and are aimed at providing individual support, meeting the daily needs and legal advice of consumers or social-psychological assistance when immediate intervention is required, including through mobile crisis intervention teams. For information, Members of the National Assembly, such crisis centers, established under the Law and acting under the Rules of the Social Assistance Act, there are and I will list them to you where. "Pleven, Peshtera, Varna, Stara Zagora, Pernik, Burgas, Dupnitsa, Silistra, Targovishte, Ruse and Plovdiv. There are no such crisis centres in the other district centres. I would like to thank my fellow Members who will support our proposal to have such crisis centres in all district centres because, as regulated in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act, I will read it verbatim: If you are suffering from domestic violence, you have the right to wish to be accommodated in a crisis centre. Where, as in the whole Southwestern region of Bulgaria, is the only crisis centre in Pernik? In this respect, thank you for supporting our proposal. We hope, even though it's in violation of art. 19 of the State Budget Act, the Council of Ministers to grant the necessary funds for the establishment of such crisis centres as early as this calendar year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u166	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill to supplement the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence, No 854-01-4, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 2 February 2018. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between first and second reading and the newly adopted Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Domestic Violence should be the maximum, i.e. to be increased by another three weeks and to be the maximum of 28 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-09.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. We are going to vote on the proposal just made for a maximum increase in the period between first and second readings. Is there another suggestion? I won't. They voted 118 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The following proposal has been submitted: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Economy on the state of business climate in Bulgaria. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to include the hearing as first item for Thursday from the National Assembly Programme for the period from 9 May to 11 May 2018 The proposal is by Daniela Saveklieva and a group of MPs. Since we have already voted on item one for Thursday, I propose that the proposal made be included as point two for Thursday. Are there any other suggestions? Please vote on the inclusion of a second item on the Programme for tomorrow, Thursday. They voted 114 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. That's the second point for tomorrow, Thursday. Dear Members of Parliament, this concludes the agenda for today. Tomorrow May 10th, Thursday, the work of the National Assembly continues at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
