ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u1	I shall open the plenary session. Today is the first Wednesday of the month, so the program is formed according to the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups, this month they are the first of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. They propose that the first item be the First Voting of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers srasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. There are no proposals received from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and from the parliamentary group of Volja. A proposal has been made by the parliamentary group of PP GERB "A bill for ratification of the Protocol for the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court." Importer of the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018 There is no proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 3. First vote on the Bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products. Importers suppose Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 14 December 2017. 4. Election of a Chairperson of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 9 May 2018. 5. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act. Importer: Menda Stoyanova, 2 May 2018 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018. 7. Draft Decision repealing decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 of 2012. Importers "Cornelia Ninova" and a group of MPs on 1 June 2018, and Draft Decision on the renewal of actions in the search for opportunities for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" jointly with a strategic investor on a market basis and without providing a state guarantee by separating the assets and liabilities of the nuclear power plant "Belene" project into a separate project company. Importers Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov, Daniel Kirilov, Julian Angelov, Iskren Veselinov and Boris Vangelov on 5 June 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 7 June 2018 8. Draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment" for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of the mechanized brigade and of the updated investment cost project "Acquiring of a new type of combat plane." Importer of the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018 Point 2 for Thursday, 7 June 2018 9. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. Importer 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers on 22 January 2018; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018; Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapriyan Yankov on 5 April 2018; Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018; Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. 11. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote the so-read agenda. They voted 173 MPs: for 145, against 3, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I regret to say to the Members of the National Assembly that lawlessness in the country is taking over. Unfortunately, yesterday, we witnessed another self-harassment resulting from the Ministry of Interior's inaction. After that spectacular action that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u3	What's the procedure, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u4	...we witnessed the escape of two inmates shooting... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Last night we witnessed these two, like in a western...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u5	What's your procedure, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u6	...a threesome, shots fired in downtown Botevgrad. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Apparently there was a cleaning lady missing. Madam President, please invite the Interior Minister to explain to the MPs what is happening, how the Ministry of Interior works, how efforts are being made to stop crime in Bulgaria and, above all, to understand how this bloody incident occurred last night at the centre of Botevgrad, where, fortunately, there are no injured citizens? This thing can't go on! Shots fired after firing squad, and the police are silent in the end. Please invite the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u7	I understand your procedure, Mr. Ivanov. I'll contact Mr. Radev. Draft and draft decisions from 30 May 2018 to 5 June 2018: Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It's a cybersecurity bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2017. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2017. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2017. Importer "The Commission for Protection of Competition." It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2017. Importer "The National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means." It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. There has been a proposal for discussion on questions, No 854-05-33, from 9 May 2018 by the MPs Professor Georgi Mihailov, Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft decision to elect a President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. The Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Decision repealing decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2018 terminating the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 of 2012. Importers.. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Health, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Project of a decision to resume the action on the search for opportunities for the construction of NPP. Belene................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importers Valentin Alexiev Nikolov, Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov, Julian Krastev Angelov, Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and Boris Vangelov Borisov. Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: On 31 May 2018, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 10 of 29 May 2018 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 4/2017. By its judgment, the Constitutional Court ruled on the request of a three-member body of the Supreme Administrative Court and declared the provision of art. 214, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The National Assembly has received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 April 24 May 2018, and Protocol No 24 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 29 May 2018, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information from the National Statistical Institute for the Economic Conjuncture May 2018, price indices of a producer on the domestic and international market in industry, April 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason for today's declaration is the decision of the Municipal Council "Stara Zagora," to change the names of more than 800 localities in the municipality. The proposal is short and contains the following motivation: Onomastics deals with the emergence and history of names in relation to the people who handle them. Today, 140 years after the Liberation, we Bulgarians are the owners of these lands and it is our duty as municipal councilors to translate the Turkish-Arabic names into understandable types of areas. All municipal councillors voted for the decision except for the DPS advisors. This is not a reason for pride, as it seems is the opinion of the mayor of the municipality, raised by GERB. He tells a media that there is a non-party union in Stara Zagora in the case of the renaming of Bulgarian localities. In fact, that opinion is sufficient to cause concern and anxiety. The association of the parties led to a change in the name of "Ahmed bair" of "Antonov rid", "Mehmedova koriya" of "Manolova Gora", "Mahmoud göl " of "Mishov yaz", "Mustafova koriya" [[noise and lines]] of the Mustakov woodland...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u9	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u10	...because Ahmed, Mehmed, Mustafa are not sounded as Anton, Manol and Mustak, which is the subtext of one of the municipal councilors from GERB, quoted by the media. Of course, without comment I leave examples of renaming such as: The steep pollens become the steep meadows. Here I can think of a poem by one of the brightest Bulgarian poets Pencho Slaveykov. The wind doesn't smell on the pollen, the leaf doesn't flicker on the tree... ♪ Do we have to replace the pollen here too? The decision of the Municipal Council in question is a test for Bulgarian democracy and tolerance with an alarming result. Our democracy needs a serious consideration, a very serious and deep thought. We need a dialogue in society. This and similar acts are a cause for reflection on the state of democracy, the past of the country, of the earth, of the present and of the future. Freedom and democracy cannot exist until the issue of personal freedom, self-confirmation, reconciliation with the past, with history, in the name of values such as stability and security, prosperity and prosperity is resolved. Democracy does not run out of formal constitutional proclamation of the parliamentary form of governance. Democracy is a worldview that is also based on the understanding of the dignity, values and inalienable rights of each individual. Democracy must also respect these rights in state, economic and cultural life. Democracy is not only free elections without which it is not possible. Democracy is a constant dialogue on values and the way they are implemented and defended, a realization of the principle that everyone's freedom extends to where each other's freedom begins. What is essential for democracy is to have institutions built and working against populism, radicalism, chauvinism, racism, nationalism [[sighs]] , fascism and against dictatorship.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u11	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u12	What is essential is not dominance and who is in charge, but how the government is in control, not to possess power and not to forget their responsibilities. Acts similar to the decision of the Municipal Council in Stara Zagora have a strong emotional impact on society and are raising associations with another process from the near past. Here's a case. [[shows sheets]] : Bulgarian citizen receives an electronic ticket, delivered on 19 October 2017, to the official, state name, instead of his birth name, and by identity documents, perhaps because some clerk has decided that the state name is more favorable. GERB not only failed in its claim that it will tame nationalists, GERB made nationalism a major state policy [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u13	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u14	...abandoning democratic principles and European values, forgetting their responsibility to the future. This act in Stara Zagora shows the true nature of GERB policy. They not only lied to 100,000, as the Turks and Muslims in Bulgaria claim, they mocked them, with their feelings and opened unhealed wounds. More than that, GERB proved that they do not understand and do not realize the power of what was built, what was built during the peaceful transition after the end of totalitarian power on the basis of consensus, wisdom and insight of the builders of new Bulgaria. They do not simply not realize the importance of the Bulgarian ethnic model, the strength of tolerance and peaceful cohabitation and point it as an example to the Western Balkans how Christians and Muslims live together, peacefully and respect each other. Is that what you call respect, you GERB people? The press is that it is good to replace other people's names with Bulgarians. The mayor of Stara Zagora says. Clearly, this is just the beginning. There are already submitted drafts of decisions in other municipal councils. [[Applause and applause by "United Patriarchs: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u15	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u16	It is clear that it is easy to convince the majority of advisors against Turkish and Muslim names. However, it is clear that it is easy to provoke other advisors to take reciprocal counter-actions. Our appeal to the second one is, "Don't! Do not respond to foreign provocation for division and opposition! This way you risk the future of mine, of yours, of our country! Dear colleagues, the reason for our declaration is the decision of the Municipal Council in Stara Zagora, but our real pain and concern is the state of democracy. For this I do not comment on the absurdity of the decision, which speaks of foreign names on Bulgarian territory. They are Bulgarian and as such are included in the Bulgarian register of geographical names, which aims to ensure uniformity and sustainability in the use of geographical sites. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and urged not only the responsible institutions to take immediate action to repeal the Decision, we call on all state authorities and institutions to condemn any such act which creates conditions for tension and uncertainty...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u17	Get it over with, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u18	...infiltrate trust and is a provocation to national security. I'm done, Mrs. Chairman. Ten seconds. We call on free and active citizens to defend democracy. Ironically, 2018 is the European Year of Cultural Heritage. The motto of the year is: Our heritage: where the past meets the future. Cultural heritage is a universal value and we are all obliged to preserve and pass it on to future generations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u20	Through our cultural heritage, we find beauty and diversity in common.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u22	All of us responsible for the future cannot and must not let our cultural heritage separate us, destroy or disappear. Let's look for ways to preserve cultural heritage, which is important...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u23	You've already delayed one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u24	...our identity, the identity of each person... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. [[(Loud noise and shouts from DPS: Resignation!]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u26	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u27	Okay, Mr. Karadaye, you just said ten seconds ago, and for that reason... Please, continue, but just a minute and a half are already overdue. Colleagues, please be quiet! Please be quiet! Please be quiet and don't sharpen the debate in this room! [[Loud noise and lines in DPS.]] Mr. Karadaye, ten seconds to complete your thought, but I gave you tolerance over a minute and a half. Here you go. Last ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u28	Thank you. To preserve the historical memory, to seek reconciliation and in a spirit of tolerance and mutual respect, to walk in our common path! The future of Bulgaria requires it from us and all of us who love Bulgaria are obliged to do it! Otherwise, it should be as a Member State of the European Union presiding over the Council of the European Union... [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u29	Mr. Karadaye, now they're going to ask for my resignation from the other side.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u30	...rulers to explain how they translate the essence and motto of the European Year of Cultural Heritage. Thank you for your attention! [[The members of the DPS with violent applause are standing on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u31	Thank you. Colleagues, you know that when you read declarations... [[Shouting and banging at the banks of the United Patriarchs.]] Stay calm and quiet! Colleagues, please take your seats! Sit down! [[Calls DPS MPs, line: "I am listening! "]] Colleagues, you know that when a declaration is read, we always exceed ten minutes. I will ask the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, when drawing up their declarations, to fit into these ten minutes, because you see that tensions are taking place in this House. Thank you. Mr. Stanilov first, then Mr. Tsonev. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the United patriots, I would like to say the following: when in the XIV and XV century the Ottoman Turks conquered South East Europe with fire and sword, what were the Toponyms and hydronyms in these countries? They were Greek, Serbian and Bulgarian. How did they suddenly become Turkish and now they should not be replaced? In the 18th and most of all in the 19th and early 20th centuries, Ottoman Turkey was pushed out of European territory. Why was she pushed out? In order to create states of subordinate Christians who lived under unauthorized conditions. That's the truth. And then what happens? Then all these Christian peoples, introducing European culture into their territory, began to destroy Ottoman cultural heritage. Sarai, mosques, tequeta disappeared, caravan Sarai disappeared, many other monuments disappeared, and a large part of the toponim and hydronyms were replaced. Why? Because these nations had a sincere resentment and even hatred against Turkish culture, which was a culture of oppressors, a culture of those who ruled without conforming to their Christian subjects, using them only for paradise, for working livestock. They destroyed their aristocracy, destroyed their elite culture. These peoples were centuries away from the European culture, to which they belonged hundreds of years earlier. This is the historical truth that cannot be challenged. Let's look into this process to find out what it's about. This is about a historical process that cannot be canceled, cannot be replaced, cannot be outlived with ordinary slogans, with ordinary philosophy, with simple arguments. We are going to a Bulgarian ethnic model. The Bulgarian ethnic model was not invented by Mr. Dogan, either by DPS or by other people. [[Noise and lines from DPS. A round of applause from the OP. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is heading for the hall door.]] The Bulgarian ethnic model was created by the Bulgarian people after the Liberation. If that is not true, there will be no Turks in Bulgaria, and there will be too many. [[Loud shouts: "Oooh!" by DPS.]] The Bulgarian ethnic model allowed these Turks to stay and live peacefully with all Bulgarians, which they now do not want to do. The Bulgarian ethnic model mastered that instrument... [[Noise and lines from OP and DPS. People's representative Pavel Shopov gives a high ton of speeches to the MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u33	Colleagues, colleagues, please be quiet! Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u34	There is also a document from outside forces in which the Bulgarians receive great recognition. The Nazi party of Hitlerist Germany during the war wants to export from Bulgaria, to take Jews out. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u35	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u36	Please listen to me to the end. We have listened to Karadaye to the end. What's going on? [[Noise and lines between MPs from the parliamentary groups of OP and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u37	What's going on in the gym?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u38	When Hitler claims to expel the Jews and be handed over to him in the concentration camp, there is a document preserved...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u39	Professor, wait a second, there's a riot in the room. Please, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u40	In this document, the Nazi Commissioner in Bulgaria, who was responsible for the exodus of the Jews, wrote clearly: "The Bulgarians do not understand our ideas in Germany. They can't accept that they can kick someone out just because of their religion, because of their language, because of their culture. They have lived with Turks, Gypsies, Jews, Armenians for centuries and therefore do not understand what we want to do. For this reason the Nazis have retreated and we have saved the Jews because of the Bulgarian ethnic model that ruled in Bulgaria for nearly a century and a half. [[Applause from OP.]] Therefore, I think we should stop arguing about these issues, and our colleagues from the DPS, asking for unity, let this togetherness be according to the Bulgarian law. This is Bulgarian land, of the Bulgarian state, of the Bulgarian nation. In vain is pretending that we are a political nation, which is absolutely false by all parameters. We are a Bulgarian nation and we have a diaspora of different ethnicities. In order to live peacefully, however, we must live by the Bulgarian law and by talking about democracy, which means nationality, let us obey what the majority of this nation wants! And what the councillors in Stara Zagora have done seems to be at the request of the majority. Once again, I will say that, unfortunately, this is not understood and it is constantly being talked about to make provocations in this sense. Either way, we're still the owners of this land, and here we have to do what we say. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u41	Which ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u42	We Bulgarian citizens mean Professor Stanilov, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u43	We, the Bulgarian people who rule their country in a democratic way. Because you challenged me, I want a little more time to tell you this: in the Republic of Turkey there is not a single Bulgarian name! Moreover, the name Lozengrad, which is Bulgarian, is nowhere in Turkish registers. Lozengrad in Turkish 30 years ago was Kirkleese......................................................................................... Now all of a sudden on the cards is the Kirkale....... the ten fortresses............................................... Where do churches go? Why? Just because they were Christian, Bulgarian and so on. Furthermore, if you look at the Turkish register of the Turkish geographical company, which is a member of the International Organization, in the Bulgarian Thrace, in the Bulgarian territory, all names are of Turkish cities, rivers, locations, everything! Check it out and you'll see. So, speaking of tolerance, komshuluk, neighbourhood and good relations, let us take into account the interests of all, and not just one regional great power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u44	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u45	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. It was right to give me the floor before the declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u46	I thought it was Professor Stanilov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u47	That's what I thought. Once you saw it was a declaration, you just had to change things, but anyway, it wouldn't stop me from making this procedure about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u48	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u49	During Mr. Karadaye's declaration, you did not provide order in the Chamber. You interrupted it, and at the time in question, which you claimed in the end, there were riots, in fact, was the time when he didn't have the opportunity to speak. You may not understand, Madam President, the importance of this declaration. Perhaps you did not understand, colleagues who were shouting that the right of the municipal council, of any municipal council, of the majority of this municipal council to make such acts, gives rise to the response of many times. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u50	What's the procedure?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u51	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev pays attention to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u52	I'm only talking to the chairman. Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u53	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u54	It doesn't matter what you say from there. Because if you had paid attention to this importance and to those words in the declaration, you would have provided the necessary order because of the importance. I want to ask you: if a nationalism is what it is in Stara Zagora and this one here in the right part of the hall, and, unfortunately, not just in the right, will it not breed a response? I want to ask you: where there are other majorities in municipal councils, how will you prevent them if they decide to respond to this? Do you realize that I should ask you as an ethnic Bulgarian and as a Christian? [[Whistles from OP.]] Do you realize that there?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u55	Is this about me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u56	Do you realize that during these 20 years there has been a denial of rematchism by a truly patriotic part of the Bulgarian population?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u57	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u58	Do you realize that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u60	And do you realize, Professor Stanilov, when you speak here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u61	Mr. Tsonev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u62	...for the diversity of the Bulgarian land...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u63	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u64	...that there is a variety of religions, a variety of ethnicities, a variety of names? [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u65	Colleagues, please! Mr. Tsonev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u66	If you don't realize, you're not patriots! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u67	Please, Mr. Tsonev. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Angelov. Let me just say to Mr. Tsonev that I've given Mr. Karadaye over a minute and 30 seconds to continue. [[Replying in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u68	And you took two minutes before that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u69	Completely after the 10 minutes, extra time was given. And all I made a remark about was then. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I address you as President of the National Assembly. We believe that it is unacceptable, no matter who is speaking from this tribune, to violate the Rules of Procedure.................... the Chair of a parliamentary group,................ the Vice-President of the National Assembly and so on! When there are rules, it is a law for the National Assembly! Everyone has to comply with it. Why are certain politicians or part of a political party allowed to do what they want in the Bulgarian Parliament all the time? Why was more than 12 minutes allowed and something to speak to the Chairman of the DPS? It's a violation of the rules, no matter what it's called or what it is! It is equal to other MPs. Because other MPs, when they cross time, are stopped. Why should Karadayi speak more than others? He's more than us, I don't understand? [[DPS lines.]] So we insist that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be respected. The other which is towards this procedure in the manner of conduct. You just allowed a representative from the DPS to make a speech. And you let him speak again for more than two minutes, which is the procedure. That's also unacceptable! So, when we, the United Patriarchs, somehow violate the Rules, we stop time, sanctions are imposed, and there are none for others? Separately, Madam President, you have allowed out of the first row insulting qualifications to MPs from the House of United Patriarchs, you can request the recording, and no comment has been made! [[Noise and lines.]] No way! No way! [[DPS lines.]] So we insist really objectively that the National Assembly be led. Last week, I asked your colleague to impose a sanction on Mr Mareshki as Vice-President of the National Assembly, who allowed himself insulting qualifications to the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u71	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u72	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u73	Is there a penalty imposed? There's no penalty imposed. How long will this discrimination continue for one person and not for another?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u74	The weather, Mr. Angelov. Dear Mr. Angelov, I'll make a reference. I will ask the office to provide all the chairmen of parliamentary groups, especially the declarations, to which group, how much more I have given to speak after the 10 minutes. I've never once allowed myself to interrupt, to take the floor. I'm just making a remark so you can navigate. The other thing I haven't heard is the insulting qualification that was said during Mr. Karadaye's exit. [[DPS lines.]] Personal explanation? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov. [[(Noise and lines from DPS: How personal explanation?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Wait a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u75	The colleague Yordan Tsonev said: "Professor Stanilov, do you have an account? " - I am the professor. I'm aware of that, and I'd like to say a few words. Colleague Tsonev, I am very well aware of everything, but I would like to draw your attention to the following. In those municipalities where the Turks have a majority in the municipal council, nothing has been changed. In the village where I grew up, there are more fields, abandoned properties and so on, everything is Turkish. There's nothing changed. Who changed them by force? Where there is a majority, there remains, as you can see, although I think this is also not very correct, but whatever. Secondly, speaking of insulting qualifications, honourable Members, it cannot be said: If you are used to such vocabulary, we deny it and it is unacceptable in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u76	Colleagues, let's calm the passions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u77	By the way, Madam President, in the first row we were called idiots...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u78	Please, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u79	Literally, you didn't say anything either.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u80	I haven't heard, Mr. Stanilov, I can't hear everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u81	You should have heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u82	About my special treatment with the Patriots, I think you're wrong. Colleagues, I have the same attitude towards all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u83	You didn't answer me about Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u84	I'll answer for Mareshki when I meet the transcript, see what Mr. Mareshki said. I've never been to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u85	You were in the gym. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u86	Colleagues, let's move on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u87	I have to be sanctioned, and others do what they want. [[Shouts from DPS: "Come on, come on. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u88	Calm down, Mr. Angelov! Please! Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! As far as I understand from the National Assembly's agenda for the week, tomorrow on the agenda we will discuss the deal on the purchase of expensive fighter planes. Apparently, someone's in a hurry. As you know, the Political Party "Volja" submitted a draft decision for a Moratorium on the unreasonable spending of nearly 6 billion. lv. Over the past few days, our opponents have repeated many times. If you don't feed your army, you'll feed someone else's. They tangled with the fears of Bulgarian citizens, claiming that there is almost no immediate military danger to Bulgaria, and from neighbouring countries. This is the most ridiculous thing we've ever heard! At the same time, people are wondering how to pay their raised household bills after another increase from July 1st. Every day, families talk about health, household spending, education, pensions, and domestic crime. The theme "Who will attack us by air" I very much hope it is a priority for the Bulgarians. All this raises the key question: What are the state priorities at the moment? I can immediately answer you without doing a sociological survey or a referendum for millions of levs. In order to argue, my team and I have pulled the headlines in the national media over the last year that you manage. A huge percentage of the news is related precisely to protests in healthcare, in education, because of low or unpaid salaries, the low standard of living. I will give some concrete examples: 28 April 2017. She's not going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's not going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to the hospital for a long time; she's going to the hospital for a long time; she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's going to close with as she's going to the 100-year school in Asenovgrad, and she's going to be in the school for a long time; she's not going to be in the school for an adequate number of students; she's, she's going to be in the hospital for a long time; she's she's she's she's she's she's going to spend's going to be in the year; she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's going to be in the year; she's going to spend's going to be in the year; she's she's going to spend year, she's going to spend year, she's going to be in the year's going to be in the year, she's she's going to be in the year; she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's she's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to spend's going to be in the year; she's going to spend's going to be in the year; she's, she's going to be in the year's going to spend's going to be in the year's going to be in the year, she's, she's she's she's $100,000. lv. have been drained by the Health Insurance Fund in Plovdiv through a scheme for fictitious pharmacies and duplicates of expensive pharmacies. 12 May........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Last day, 42,000. The dollar does not reach another Bulgarian to save his life. Dear colleagues, now is the time to be true patriots and good politicians. This is the news, this is part of the news, a small sample of the news in the central media, which shows us what the problems of the Bulgarian people are and what should be the priorities of the government, the MPs broadcast by this Bulgarian people. There was no threat of air, infantry, underwater or any other attack on Bulgaria in any news. It has been heard of bankrupt hospitals, underpaid doctors, underpaid teachers, underpaid policemen and associated poor health care, poor education and widespread domestic crime. These are the priorities of the Bulgarian people, honourable patriots, so-called patriots, and above all, dear Minister Karakachanov! That's why we want your resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u90	Mr. Mareshki! Mr. Mareshki, just a second! You're talking about a topic on the agenda, and according to art. 54, para. 6 You may speak and make a declaration on behalf of a group, but not on matters on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u91	But we don't have that agenda today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u92	It's on the agenda of the week, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u93	I'll fix it a little bit then! I'm gonna talk a little sideways!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u94	He has no right, no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u95	You don't have to talk about the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u96	Yes, there is actually no problem to ask for the resignation of Minister Karakachanov because of failure to meet the priorities of the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u97	There's no resignation on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u98	First of all, don't call from the spot. Secondly, I'm not talking about whether or not a resignation is required. I'm talking about Mr. Mareshki. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u99	He wants his resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u100	He can ask for whatever he wants. [[Laughter]] Here you are, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u101	That is why, fellow Members, we urge you to address your constituents. Finally, turn to your conscience and judge what is reasonable and what is right for the Bulgarian people. Thank you and good luck with your thoughts! [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, today guests in the parliament are students from the specialty of the International Relations. Kliment Ohridski. Let's say hello to them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] We move on to item one of the agenda, and it is the proposal on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers: Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018 The draft is motivated by it and a preliminary impact assessment according to the methodology. You are welcome to read the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Kirilov, on the relevant bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. At its meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. The meeting was attended by the Supreme Lawyers Council. Lawyer Valya Gigova. Mr. Hristian Mitev presented the reasons of the bill, pointing out that the proposed changes are related to the need to impose heavier penalties for poachers. An increase in the minimum amount of the fine is proposed and higher penalty penalties are introduced on repeated grounds. The Law aims to achieve individual and general prevention of penalties for illegal fishing. On the bill were received opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Ministry of Justice. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Christian Mitev, Daniel Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Simeon Naydenov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Lazarov suggested that importers consider the possibility to refine some of the proposed changes. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he supports the position of the Supreme Court of Cassation to improve the proposed provisions. Mr. Naydenov pointed out that he would not support the bill by expressing disagreement with the increase of the proposed sanctions. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Laws, Mrs. Gigova expressed a negative opinion on the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 2 votes for the Criminal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 21 February 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 16 May 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The commission took part in the work: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister, Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the Department of General Policy in the field of hydromelorations and fisheries, and Hristo Rangelov, Senior Legal Consultant at the Department of Law. From the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, Galin Nikolov, Executive Director. The bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov, according to which the changes aim to increase the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in poaching. The Bill makes changes to art. 238. It is proposed that sanctions under this provision be imposed on anyone fishing fish, even without catching. The non-essential case shall be dropped, the minimum amount of the fine shall be increased and penalties shall be introduced when the act is repeated. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill in principle by making concrete proposals to refine the texts. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the Criminal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 21 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. I'm opening the debate on the subject. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Just so you know, my statement is an importer's opinion. Dear colleagues, the amendments we have proposed to the Criminal Code are based on our belief that more serious punishments are needed in connection with poaching in the country. Bulgaria is one of the few countries in the European Union that punishes poaching and fishing for fish with nets and explosives only with administrative punishment. Over the past 10 years, there has been a trend towards a sharp increase in the number of fishing enthusiasts. Their number at present, according to the current data of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, amounts to more than 400 000 people per year. As their numbers increase, the possibility of abuse of recreational rights of fishermen on the inland waters of the country, the Danube and the Black Sea. After 1989, we have witnessed the use of unregulated means of fishing for profit, with most of the infringements being used by the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture for use in inland gillnets and electrical appliances without appropriate permits. The current law prohibits the use of such appliances in the country's inland waters by sanctioning their use only by imposing an administrative penalty. Often, the amount of catch in the use of unauthorised means and gadgets repeatedly exceeds the maximum catch authorisations of 3 kilograms. Information from inspections carried out by the Executive Agency shows that often poaching of fish reaches even more than 100 kg per day, which generates huge profits for offenders and represents unfair competition for the fish and aquaculture market, undercutting their market value. These drastic violations lead to defishing of inland waters in the country, disturbing the ecological balance and normal population of fish resources, which indirectly reflects on fishing tourism in the country. The revenues in Bulgaria's budget are mainly generated by taxes, excise duties and tourism. Tourism in Bulgaria is not only related to the development of the resorts on our Black Sea coast, Bansko, Pamporovo and Borovets. A small part of the places for recreation and tourism are related to small settlements in the interior of the country, located near water basins, where most of the tourists are precisely Bulgarian fishermen practicing river, lake or dam fishing. The most directly affected by the poachers' raids are precisely those small settlements where the only livelihood of the population is related to rural tourism and where the tide of tourists is observed due to the total de-fishing of the ponds. This desiccation has been going on for more than 20 years. In the Registers of the Executive Agency there are proven poachers repeaters who have been caught repeatedly poaching. They have entered into force and unpaid dozens of certificates for thousands of levs for unregulated catches with nets and electricity. These are persons who do not have one day's service and spend their whole life with illegal catches, sale and distribution of fish. Many of them have conditional sentences for committing crimes of any nature. The provisions currently in force following the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a fine of infringement under the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture should be forwarded to the National Revenue Agency or by the Court of Justice or by the Executive Agency. Since the amounts are insignificant compared to the other claims of the NRA, they are not collected in due time and paid out on a limitation period of five years from their issuance. We should also note the fact that, at the beginning of this year, the European Union voted on new rules for fishing on the Old Continent. The most important point adopted by the European Commission is the absolute ban on impulsive electric current for fishing in all Member States of the European Union. It shall also be prohibited to use towed fishing gear and static nets in the waters prohibited by commercial fishing. The catch of marine mammals, marine birds and marine reptiles shall be limited, including specific provisions for the protection of sensitive habitats. The Member States of the European Union shall have 18 months after the entry into force of this Regulation for the adoption of relevant regional rules in individual countries. With the proposed legislative change we aim to increase the minimum amount of the fine under para. 1 of art. 238 per 200 BGN by introducing higher penalty penalties in the case of re-execution of the act. We believe that in this way the objectives of individual and general prevention of penalties for illegal fishing in the country will be much better met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. This was an opinion on behalf of an importer. I'm opening the debate on the subject. Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor as one of the importers of the change in the Penal Code in question. Our proposal is based, firstly, on a number of imperfections of the current Penal Code, which do not treat cases that affect poaching in several directions. There are around 400,000 regularly registered fishermen in the country who suffer damage from illegal fishing. Their rights are seriously violated by these discrepancies of the Penal Code we are talking about. Secondly, poaching is damaging biodiversity, reducing the population of different species of fish and river inhabitants, which also needs to be protected. In this sense, the Penal Code does not treat cases where there is an attempt to commit a crime. That is why we have proposed a change in art. 238, where the word "catchers' shall be replaced by the word "fishers'. At this time, when an intruder, a poacher is caught on the very pond with some explosive or poisonous substance in it that he is preparing to commit such a crime, the law does not classify him as an intruder and thus very difficult to find after that criminal liability. The other part of our proposal concerns the so-called gillnets, we have recorded some types of networks. The most common violations are committed precisely with such a network catch. According to the data of the various fish conservation organizations in Bulgaria over 60 km networks have been captured at the moment, but the Criminal Code does not treat this as a violation. We propose to drop the so-called non-essential cases or rather minor cases, as stated in the Law, because here, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about fishing with fishing rods, hands and so on, but we are talking about catching with explosive, poisonous or stunning means and all kinds of networks. There can be no minor case in the use of such funds. They are obviously applied to catch a large quantity of fish and various inhabitants. For this reason, minor cases in the Law must be dropped, that is to say, each of the offenders must have a criminal responsibility. We're changing the penalties ourselves by increasing them twice as much. Definitely a penalty of 100 leva. In 2018, it does not sound serious when a person is caught, to stress again, not with a fishing rod by the pool, but with explosive, poisonous substances and with nets. So he goes there to commit severe damage to the fish population, not to fish for his own consumption. In this way, we hope that the Law also has preventive effect on such offenders, that is, when the penalty is increased twice, it will protect or end, or will greatly reduce the possibility of committing such a crime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I call on you at first reading to adopt this amendment to the Penal Code, and it corresponds directly to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture adopted just a few days ago. Our proposals are likely to be corrected, but this can happen between first and second readings and must be directly in line with the adopted Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. I think the two bills complement each other. We will do a good deed for the population of fish and to ban rather or eliminate the possibility of poaching if, together with the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, we also make changes to the Criminal Code. Then, in all our fullness, we will have a fair solution that will benefit a large group of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any lines to Mr. Bogdanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Lazarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u111	Mrs. Chairman! I will vote for this bill, albeit with very large reserves. The desire, when the authorities of an organisation, an institution cannot or do not want to deal with administrative penal provisions, to transfer everything to the part of criminal law, to become a crime speaks of whether it has no control, or this institution does not want to work, or simply wants to get rid of its obligations. Yes, this bill was discussed, although the representatives of the IRA and the other control authorities said that of 300 and how many thousands of members or having a fishing ticket there are, of course, minors and other persons, very few are those who commit such violations. We were not provided with any information as to how many such acts exist in 2000, 3000, 4000 violations found to be justified that, since administrative penal punishment cannot be suspended in this case, we should move on to criminal proceedings. You see, somehow things are transferred to the Ministry of Interior, to the investigating authorities, to the prosecution instead of someone more responsible to do their job. Yes, there are difficulties. The aquaculture bill was asked, we debated it there, we also voted on it. There's a mention of the case when someone's hunting with a blast. There are texts in the Criminal Code, in Chapter There are texts in the General Crimes Department! If we are given cases, hypotheses, when there are such findings, but there have been no consequences, yes, I agree. In principle, yes, there are penalties in the texts of the current Penal Code, it is normal to increase them. Between first and second readings, these texts need to be examined very carefully and precisely because, agree, there is a criminal responsibility for the fact that someone has caught or has not caught fish, or is a minor, or a child is not liable for criminal liability. But a minor or an adult citizen comes not little, much more than the normal regulation of relations and sanctions are administrative criminal and criminal regulations. Yes, there are now such penal provisions in the Criminal Code which caught fish in an unimportant case. So the quantities still have to be at least more than one fish in order to be criminally responsible, because there is also a replay there, and I don't want to go into the depths of the Penal Code here. I will support the bill, I suppose, and my colleagues from our group, but, I repeat, with the reservation, there are other attempts when we ask the administrative criminal regulations, without giving statistics on how many there are imposed, how many there are cancelled by the court in the case of administrative criminal acts, what are the grounds for us transferring it to the police, the prosecution and going to criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Replies to Mr. Lazarov's statement? I won't. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u113	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the purpose of this bill, but I think it will not be able to be achieved with these texts. I think that the current penal text in our Penal Code, in relation to this act, is much better described. Yes, you can really increase the amount of punishment in the current Penal Code. But in this way, honourable importers, out of an effective crime, the capture of fish, whose harmful consequences occur with the very execution of the entire composition of the act, namely the catch of fish, you are punishing the practice here. You are replacing the word "catchers" with the word "catchers," which is an attempt to commit this crime by means of prohibited means in prohibited ponds. Indeed, Mr. Lazarov is right, in the current Penal Code of Conduct and Use of Explosive, Poisonous, Stunning Substances is also a crime in itself. From this point of view, I personally will not support this bill at first reading. What's more, you've recorded with all kinds of networks. Dear Members of Parliament, there are networks and two, three meters each......................................... with which even this act is committed, these networks cannot have huge, harmful consequences in order to be so socially dangerous that it can be raised into crime. It could actually be a minor, a minor citizen, with a five-mile net practically fishing, whether he caught or not. You say: "Wears of liability", "following by the state", "court" and so on, which comes in more." For these reasons I will not support at first reading this text because there is almost nothing to sanitize in it between first and second readings. There is no way, I think, to improve these texts. We agree to lift the penalty, but in the current text of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u115	Mrs. Chairman! I accept some of the arguments made by Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Popov just now, but I still have to remind you that changes do not affect recreational fishing. We are not talking about people or children, as you say, who have gone to the river with hands or with a rod to exercise recreational fishing. We are talking about actions that cause serious crimes when it comes to large quantities of fish, when it comes to explosive, tranquilizing and poisonous substances. What about the nets? I mentioned earlier that there are currently about 60 kilometers of such networks caught. This is the most commonly used means of poaching in Bulgaria. As we said, the law doesn't treat such a violation, it doesn't treat such a crime. Many of the fish conservation organisations that have concluded an agreement with the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture (IRA) to support its activities in the protection of ponds face serious resistance from poachers. It often comes to hand-to-hand skirmishes, even if you will, sometimes, which really creates an inability for the Executive Agency to exercise through these fish conservation organisations its normal activities in the conservation of fish and other aquatic inhabitants. That is why the changes we are proposing are in this form. Yes, there may be some reason in terms of the term 'catching' or 'catching', so between the two readings we can correct this issue. Definitely the arguments that no crime has been committed if the Penal Code is changed in this direction have grounds. But our idea here was also at the request of the fish conservation organisations, the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency was exactly such that many times people were caught preparing to commit such a crime. When you go with tranquilizers or poisonous substances, or you go with the battery cables above the watershed itself and you get caught at that point even before you catch fish, naturally you have no criminal liability under the current code, since you have not committed the relevant crime. That's our argument. And again, I would urge you to support proposals at first reading, as in the parts that we commented on just now, we are ready to comment and make a change between the two readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Is there gonna be a second line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u117	Madam President! Mr. Popov, we are particularly surprised that BSP will not support this bill, which we are proposing because this poaching is Bulgaria's problem for 30 years. What's the size of poaching? There are different statistics, some say:.......... are very small cases that are detected, declared................................. and so on. We all travel the country, we know in villages and towns in the country what people say and know it's a mass phenomenon. This mass phenomenon must be ended. We are obliged to stop this madness that has been happening for 30 years in Bulgaria. I can't understand why BSP is against imposing greater sanctions on these poachers? Then why won't you support the bill? If you have any suggestions and want to be cleared, between the two readings you can make your proposals, and if they are reasonable, we will support them. I can't accept your argument. It's like you're taking the poachers' side like that. That's what you're doing right now. If the goals, not anything else, purely political or anything else, I'd understand. But to have arguments against the fact that we want to raise the sanctions that we want to have, including the problem that we are talking about, and the problem that we are talking about. Mr. Popov, to you is my cue. I'm sorry, when someone's preparing a murder and you have enough evidence that he's preparing a murder, don't you catch him before he does the murder by having data? Why do we have to wait for someone to catch the fish to convict him? It's a little illogical. When someone prepares a murder, you usually try to catch him before he does, we don't wait for him to kill someone, do we?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u118	It's not administrative punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u119	It doesn't matter. The point is, when you prepare and start catching such huge quantities. At least that was our logic. They must have respect, and they must know that no matter whether they catch or catch, this person must have respect. So that was our logic. It may not be accurate, but you can find another text. But give this bill a chance to really be able to put some order, because it is 30 years of poaching in Bulgaria, it is in huge proportions, it is a fact. So I really hope that BSP will change your position, be more responsible, and not just seek political dividends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u120	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there gonna be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Popov for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Angelov, I do not agree with the suggestions you are trying to make here from this platform. It is precisely because we are responsible that this is a Penal Code and it cannot be changed this way without taking into account fundamental legal principles in criminal law. Because that's exactly what you did. You're trying to solve the crime here. And now there are texts in the Penal Code and nothing prevents law enforcement from fulfilling their duties. The question is, do they perform them? Regarding the other line of the colleague. You have recorded, honourable Members, first of all, in the letter...... the words.. in a non-essential case are being used............................................................................................................................................... you are writing.......................................................................................... That's what you're bringing in as a crime, too. This is the instability in this text. Once again, we are not against lifting penalties, but it exists in the current Penal Code good enough text. Let the punishments be lifted, we are fighting this kind of crime against poaching, but this text will get nothing. That's our point. It will only be inserted into the Penal Code surplus text, which still has it as a text in the Penal Code, a surplus text that also has nothing to do with legal logic in criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Next statement? Colleagues, will there be any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. Vote 128 MPs: 93 against 7, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point, which is tabled by the political party GERB's parliamentary group: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE PRE-IMPROVEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT ON THE SINGLE COURT OF PATIENTS. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u123	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 802-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. At its meeting held on 30 May 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol for the Pre-execution of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 802-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Lachezar Borisov Mr. Borisov presented the Bill stressing that the Republic of Bulgaria ratified the Agreement on the Single Patent Court on 8 April 2016 and pointed out that the Agreement provides for the establishment of a Single Patent Court with legal personality in each Contracting Member State. It was noted that the Protocol on the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 September 2017, subject to subsequent ratification, and the Agreement itself provides for a period of prior implementation of institutional, organisational and financial provisions. Mr. Borisov pointed out that so far the protocol has been ratified or adopted by Estonia, Belgium, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden, Luxembourg, France and Denmark and the amount of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria will amount to 17 760 euros for the first year and 10 600 euros for the second year. During the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Danail Kirilov and Pencho Milkov. In response to Mr. Milkov's question, it was pointed out that all disputes concerning the authorisation of patents will be considered only by this common body. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Court of Justice, without the opposition, and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol for the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court No 802-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Protocol on the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 802-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u125	Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making a procedure for the second vote on the legislation that has just been voted and adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u127	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote on the proposed bill. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please present the text for the vote, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u128	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol on the Preliminary Implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court A single member. Ratification of the Protocol on the preliminary implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u129	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote, the name of the law and a single article. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a single member represented by an importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. Sustained. "Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the subdivision and the content of a paragraph only in accordance with the text of the importer. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. Importers are Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The report belongs to the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. At two regular meetings held on 15 and 22 March 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft for the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. The meeting, held on 15 March 2018, was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Tatiana Nakova, State Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy, Violeta Baeva, Chief Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, who emphasized on the need for legislation to regulate the activity related to the production and trade of petroleum and gas products in the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft law aims to identify economic operators engaged in oil activities, to reduce the grey sector in the main sector of the Bulgarian economy, to increase the collection of customs and tax obligations from these activities, as well as to ensure fair competition in the country's fuel market. At present, the Ministry of Finance and Revenue Agencies (IRA) and the Customs Agency (IPO) cannot solve the problem of fuel smuggling and unfair competition because they work with general legislation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this sense, the need for specific regulation of the sector, which is sustainable to increase revenues in the state budget, is necessary. The draft law introduces registration of economic operators without creating a serious administrative intervention such as would have been created by a licensing regime. The introduction of stocks for fuel storage, the introduction of security for carrying out activities within the meaning of the Law, minimum requirements for individuals managing those activities, the setting of equal and clear criteria for all economic operators are the main measures that should ensure the proper functioning of the market. For the first time, the definitions of terms such as Administrative regulation is intended to be carried out by the Minister of Economy, assisted by a intentionally specialised unit. In order to cooperate between the state authorities and those engaged in economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, an Advisory Council shall be established to the Minister of Economy, which shall be an advisory body and shall participate one representative of all state institutions involved in the implementation of the Law and a representative of branch organizations, of persons engaged in the economic activities under art. 2, para. 1. Opinion from the Ministry of Finance presented Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, who expressed principled support for the establishment of a regulation regulating economic relations related to the trade of petroleum products. The bill creates clear rules and legal certainty for economic operators and prevents the possibility of fuel abuse. At the same time, the existence of specialised legislation will also help the competent authorities of the two revenue agencies to implement more effectively preventive and subsequent control and prevention and fight against tax evasion and reduce the share of the gray economy and increase budget revenues. Mrs. Petkova drew attention to the need for an in-depth analysis of the synchronization of the special law and the general legislation in order to avoid duplication and assumption of ambiguities, as well as to assess compliance with European Union law. Ms. Svetla Genova presented the opinion of the Customs Agency, which also supports the creation of a separate law on fuels, which regulates the economic activity with oil and petroleum products. Draw attention to the relationship and the influence that this law will have on the application of the system of deferred excise duty payment by authorised warehouse holders. The scope of the sectoral law is covered by gasoline, gas oil, kerosene, heavy fuels, liquefied propane-butan, energy products which are intended to be used for motor fuel and heating fuel, and in the Law on excises and tax warehouses the scope of energy products is much wider. Mr. Vasil Panov from the National Revenue Agency expressed his opinion that the Bill is long-awaited and necessary due to the major difficulties that exist related to the designation of sites as department gas stations. The bill is generally good and can be improved between first and second votes. Mr. Angel Popov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Parvanov, Deputy Minister of Energy, and Mrs. Temenuzhka Yankova, adviser to the Ministry of Economy, expressed principle support for the bill and said that the existing imperfections can be overcome. The following MPs took part in the debates on the presented bill: Georgi Tarnovalyski, Dragomir Stoinev, Valentin Nikolov, Dora Hristova, Alexander Sabanov, Yordan Apostolov, Kalin Vasilev and Stefan Burgeev. They raised questions to the representatives of state institutions and the importer, who were answered in detail and committed to clarifying certain texts. The meeting, held on 22 March 2018, was again attended by representatives of the executive and representatives of the following branch organizations: Bulgarian Association of Associations in Road Transport, Union of International Carriers, Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, Association of Farmers in Bulgaria, National Union of Cattle in Bulgaria, Association of Dairy Processors in Bulgaria, Association of Producers, distributors and users of bottled propane-butan, Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, Bulgarian Industrial Association, National Association of Grain Producers and other interested NGOs. On behalf of the Bulgarian Association of Road Transport Associations (BASAT) and the Union of International Carriers Mr. Miroljub Stolarski expressed principle support for the bill as it is aimed at the grey economy and aims to overcome unfair competition in the transport sector. He made a statement regarding the required guarantee of 3000 BGN. and the measures to align the requirements for Bulgarian carriers leaving the country and foreign carriers entering Bulgaria. Opinions on the comments expressed Mr. Angel Popov and the national representative Emil Dimitrov. Mr. Ventzislav Varbanov presented the opinion of farmers, in which he focused on certain texts of the Draft Law concerning the sector and concerns about the requirements imposed on farmers. According to them, as end-users of fuels, they should not fall within the scope of the Law, but support the sanctioning of farmers who sell fuels. Their main concerns are related to the obligation to place fuel storage level meters for their needs, which will result in unnecessary costs, as they are also currently submitting information to the National Revenue Agency for the receipt of fuels. Other requirements, according to them, which make it difficult to operate in the agricultural sector, are the requirements for education and necessary work experience. Mr. Dimitrov made it clear that these conditions are not aimed at farmers, but at the managers of sales stations. In response to the questions asked, Mr. Vasil Panov, Director of the Directorate of the NRA, explained that the requirement for level meters and the declaration of all fuel storage vessels exists at the moment, but the checks prove that it is not met or partially fulfilled. Mr. Georgi Palpurin from the Association of Distributors and Consumers of Bottled propane-butan in Bulgaria presented the main concerns of the Association that the Draft Law lays down a high, illogical threshold in the direction of the requirements for supply facilities From the available warehouses very few will meet the requirements, and the six-month period laid down in the Bill is insufficient to build new storage facilities and a large financial resource is needed. Representatives in the industry voiced a reverse opinion of Mr Palpurin's statement on the need for available own gas bottles, namely that there is such a requirement at the moment. The responsibility for these pressure vessels belongs to the owner of the bottles, i.e. the company that operates with them. If there is no minimum requirement for the number of bottles, unfair competition occurs in which some distributors buy bottles and others use them. Proposals were made for working meetings in order to specify and approximate positions. After the meeting were held workshops and discussions at the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency with the participation of importers of the Bill, representatives of the executive power and branch organizations. Specific proposals were made by farmers' organisations, namely: Mr. Yavor Gechev on behalf of the National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives in Bulgaria, Mr. Ventsislav Varbanov on behalf of the Association of Farmers in Bulgaria, Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov on behalf of the National Association of Grain Producers. Proposals came from the Association of Distributors and Consumers of Bottled propane-butan in Bulgaria on behalf of Mr. Georgi Palpurin, from the Sectoral Organizations in Transport. "The Bulgarian Association of Associations in Road Transport and the Union of International Carriers, on behalf of Mr. Miroljub Stolarski. Proposals for texts formulated by industry organisations were adopted by the Working Group with the participation of importers and agreed on the following amendments to the bill: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 to create a new t. 7 with the following text: "7." Temporary storage by a farmer registered under the Agricultural Support Act of his own products of petroleum origin outside tax warehouses or holdings of registered recipients within the meaning of the excise and tax warehouses intended for the farmer's own economic activity, which are not subject to subsequent sale. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2 to create a new t. 4 containing the following content: "4." the production of fuels from waste processing. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 after the words "supplier of energy" to be added "supplier of agriculture, food and forestry." The current text of art. 7 becomes para. 1 and in it t. 1 to be amended by acquiring the following version: "1." to be a trader registered under the Commercial Law, under the Co-operatives Act or under the law of another Member State of the European Union, or a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or to be a farmer registered under the Agricultural Aid Act, which operates under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 to create a new para. 2 containing the following content: In order to be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7, each person must meet the following additional requirements: 1. to be registered as a farmer under the Agricultural Support Act; and 2. to possess equipment and/or to have hired and/or to have rights to use equipment registered under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 make the following changes: In Al. 2 t. 3 to acquire the following version: "3." the object from which the activity is to be carried out should be: (a) permanently attached to immovable property, and (b) meet the requirements for a construction device on the territory and for an oil product loading facility. The fulfilment of the requirements of this point shall be established for each individual site and certified by the Directorate for National and Construction Control. The requirement referred to in point (b) of this point shall not apply to an establishment of a carrier holding a licence for the carriage of passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, or shall be licensed to carry out an international carriage of passengers or goods. In para. 3 t. 3 to acquire the following version: "3." have its own or leased liquefied petroleum gas storage vessels with a minimum capacity of 50 m3 or have their own or leased oil storage vessels and/or petroleum products with a minimum design capacity of each vessel 100 m3, with the exception of biocomponent storage vessels and additives to improve fuel quality, with a minimum capacity of 1000 m3. In para. 5, t. 1 number.. 200 000..... 20 000.................................................................................................... In para. 6, p. 1 number..500 000......................................................................................................... In para. 6 t. 2 to acquire the following version: "2." have a minimum of 10,000 own LPG storage bottles. To create a new para. 8 containing the following content: In order to be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7, each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. have its own and/or leased vessels and/or storage tanks for petroleum products having a total capacity of not more than 50 m3; 2. storage vessels must be located in a particular property owned by the farmer, or have an existing lease or have other rights giving him the right to use the property; 3. the supply of petroleum products to carry out the activity of the farmer may only be made from objects to persons under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 and 3, respectively, from tax warehouses or warehouses of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; 4. any action relating to the preceding point should be reflected in a special register marking the time of charge, the quantity, the object from which it was delivered and the identification of the vehicle by which it was transported; 5. storage vessels shall be fitted with means to measure the quantities taken out of it for charging their own equipment; 6. the quantities shown under the previous point shall be recorded in a special register marking the time of loading, the quantity and the registration of the machine which is loaded; 7. when loading agricultural equipment, outside the holding, transport of fuels charged from an object of art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 to 1000 litres, with own and/or rented transport, the transport vessels shall be eligible for fire safety. The quantities of fuels referred to in this point shall be recorded in a special register marking the time of loading, the quantity and registration of the vehicle with which the transport takes place and the place and/or places in the land where it is transported. The fuel transported shall be accompanied by a printout of the fuel register; 8. storage vessels shall comply with the fire safety standards and rules. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 to create a new para. 3 containing the following content: The first one shall not apply to persons operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 of this Law. Art. 17, para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In points 3 and 5, the words shall finally be added: "with the exception of persons operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 Finally a comma shall be placed and then the words shall be added: the activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 documents for ownership/use and situational sketch of land properties, sites and facilities from which this activity will be carried out shall be presented with an indication of the exact GPS coordinates of the sites and facilities. 3. To create a new t. 8 containing the following content: It's 8 o'clock. on the premises of carriers holding a licence to carry passengers or cargo in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or holding a licence to carry out international carriage of passengers or cargoes, a Community licence shall be presented with documents of ownership/use and situational sketch of land properties, sites and facilities from which this activity will be carried out, indicating the exact GPS coordinates of the premises and facilities. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 make the following changes: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 Finally a comma shall be placed and the words shall be added:.................................................................................................. 2, para. 1, t. 7 enter the details of the sites through which the activity under that provision is carried out. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 the words shall be added at the end, except for persons operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 to remove the words "indoor site" and finally to add the words "indoor site" or object from which activity is carried out under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 2 the words shall be added at the end, either from an object from which the activity is carried out under art. 2, para. 1, t. Article 7 (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, Art. 24. (1) Charging of products of oil origin of road vehicles, or non-road machinery, or mechanisation of third parties through an internal establishment or through an object from which activity under art is carried out shall be prohibited. 2, para. 1, t. 7. (2) Gas station shall not be situated less than 100 metres from an internal object or from an object from which activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7. Article 25 to be amended and acquired as follows: Art. 25. Charging with products of oil origin of road vehicles or non-road machinery or mechanisation by mobile filling stations, other road vehicles, moving objects or mobile facilities shall be prohibited, except for charging from an internal object for own use, charging from an object from which activity is carried out under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 for own use subject to the conditions of art. 7, para. 8, as well as own-use charging using a maximum of one container with a capacity of up to 20 litres. At the end of Chapter Three, Specific provisions to be set up a new art. 26 containing the following: Art. 26. It shall be prohibited to carry out filling activities of liquefied petroleum gas pressure vessels (LPG) outside tax warehouses within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, as well as outside the tourist bottle filling points registered under this Law. To create a new art. 32 containing the following: Art. 32. (1) Whoever violates the prohibition of art. 26 is punished with a fine of £10,000. up to 20 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 10 000 BGN. up to £20,000. (2) In case of repeated infringement of art. 26, within one year, the double amount of the fine or penalty shall be imposed and the registration of the establishment shall be deleted within the meaning of that law for a period of 6 months. In § 1 of the Additional provision to create a new item. 13 containing the following: "13." Temporary storage by a farmer registered under the Agricultural Support Act is a storage activity of petroleum products owned by the farmer who stores them in its own, leased or otherwise used tank capacity in order to use the products only for the loading of its agricultural equipment. Paragraph 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, i.e. 1 letters.................................................................................................... 2, p. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: In § 2, t. 1 point (b) to create a new point. 11 in art. 47, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, to acquire the following version: "11." Having permanently attached to the land own or leased storage vessels for goods, for storage of liquefied petroleum gas with a minimum storage capacity of 50 m3 or having their own, or leased oil storage vessels, and/or petroleum products with a minimum design capacity of each vessel 100 m3, excluding bio-component storage vessels and additives to improve fuel quality, with the minimum storage capacity of the warehouse being 1000 m3. In § 2, t. 1 to create a new letter "in' with the following content: (c) the creation of para. 4 and 5 : The requirement under para. 1, t. 1 sentence 2 shall not apply to persons carrying out activities related to the production of fuels from the processing of waste. (5) The requirement under para. 1, t. 11 shall not apply to persons carrying out activities related to the production of fuels from waste processing. In Transitional and Final Provisions, establish § 9 with the following content: ..................................................... The requirements of § 2, t. 2 of this Law as regards the minimum storage capacity of the liquefied petroleum gas storage tax warehouses shall enter into force two years after its promulgation in the State Gazette. After the discussion and the vote held with 10 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and oil products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u131	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. Honourable Members of the National Assembly are students from 104 OS Zahari Stoyanov "Sofia," Eastern balcony. [[Applause.]] On the west balcony we have guests from the town of Kubrat. Please say hello to them as well. [[Applause.]] Before I give the floor under procedure a message: Minister Valentin Radev is on a cross-border mission and will not be able to be heard today on the subject. You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! We've just heard from you that the Minister is being obstructed. I am an MP in the field and as such I receive signals, including today, colleagues too, and people are worried. There are many disturbing facts, as the issue is extremely important. The information I receive from the police, and officially, personally, I am not satisfied with it. As a Member of the National Assembly, and I believe that my colleagues are responsible for what has happened, and also for people, residents and not just Botevgrad, but for the whole country. That is why we insist that the Secretary General come and make an explanation, because there are very worrying questions. They searched for him for a month, but he had a beard and a hood! Sorry, guys, Botevgrad is not New York! In Botevgrad, everyone knows each other, and one month they can't see that there's a dubious man with a beard and a hood. To come and explain: is it true that the police do not meet the number twice and there is an incompletion for the whole of Botevgrad? Is that true? If there is, when did they go, what time did they get the signal? Are there any forensics that came from Sofia when they came? The shooter himself who killed Pelov is getting on a private car and on the highway in Sofia...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u133	Mr. Chenchev, you're getting into the details.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u134	Yes, I'm just telling you, Mr. Chairman. Since a colleague of mine asked the question two hours ago, the Secretary General should come, since the Minister cannot come and explain, to answer all these disturbing questions that excite people and not just the MPs. We're holding on to this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. The report from the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee will introduce us to Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u136	♪ I can't believe under a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 28 March 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products No 854 01-16. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Temenuzhka Iankova, an advisor to the Minister of Economy, and Ivan Pavlov, a chief legal consultant in the Department of Legal Affairs; by the Ministry of Energy Vladimir Yankov, a State Expert; by the Ministry of Finance Tatiana Nakova, a State Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Emil Dimitrov. According to importers, the aim of the proposed new production bill is to fill a legislative gap in a specific key sector by minimizing unfair competition and the grey sector in oil and gas-related activities and increasing the collection of customs and tax obligations from these activities. The bill introduces registration of economic operators without creating serious administrative interference. The proposed form of regulation would not create an inadequate administrative burden, especially if the new commitments were compared with the possibility of a serious increase in budget revenues and an improvement in the economic environment. The main points that should ensure the proper functioning of the market are: the introduction of stocks for fuel storage; the introduction of a guarantee for carrying out activities within the meaning of the Law; minimum requirements for individuals who manage these activities; the setting of equal and clear criteria for all economic operators. The Bulgarian legislation gives a legal definition of the concepts of the wholesale trade, the retail trade and the preservation of the company. The proposed bill provides for administrative regulation to be carried out by the Minister of Economy, which is supported by the Advisory Council of the Ministry of Economy. The control of compliance with the Law should be carried out together or separately by the employees of different state structures. The provisions laid down in the Law are consistent with the severity of the violations and have a deterrent effect in view of the importance of the sector for the Bulgarian economy. The law should enter into force six months after its promulgation. The introduction of corresponding amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses is proposed. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the spending part of the state budget. Increased collection of duties and taxes is expected. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. Emil Dimitrov also commented on questions raised at a meeting of his Commission. By their opinions, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests support, in principle, the bill and at the same time pay attention to the provision of collateral by each person registered under the Law, which would in turn constitute a financial burden which would prevent the activity of some of the entities; it is necessary to specify the control mechanism in the light of the many control bodies; it is necessary to conduct a broad public consultation, as well as to assess the compliance of the bill with European Union law, including in the light of the notification obligation under Directive (EU) 2015/1535 establishing a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. The Ministry of Economy also commented that the establishment of a unit in the Ministry to deal with registration activities requires the provision of significant administrative capacity and financial resources to secure its activity. The Ministry of Finance draws attention to a possible breach of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, stressing that it is necessary to assess whether the proposed legal regulation and administrative requirements for fuel traders are a measure proportionate to the objective pursued, as it will involve a significant administrative and financial resource in order to realise it. According to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the principle of proportionality requires that the amount of collateral be determined depending on the risk of non-payment of taxes in the future and the amount of previously outstanding public liabilities. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry suggests that farmers should be excluded from the scope of the imported bill because they are not retailers of oil and petroleum products, but they are end-users of fuels with regard to which a control system is in place and taxes are paid. Farmers are replaced by specific and inadequate with their status obligations and requirements which create additional regulatory and financial burdens. Many opinions and declarations of branch and employers' organisations have been received by the Commission. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the GG of BSP for Bulgaria and the GG of United Patriarchs commented on the opinions of the different ministries, which in essence are negative. People's representatives from the SG of BSP for Bulgaria stressed that in the absence of political support, expressed also with the absence of members of the Council of Ministers, the bill should not be adopted in this form. It is evident that the executive's unwillingness to accept it. The establishment of a working group was proposed to complete the bill and postpone the vote, which was not adopted. Representatives of industry organisations of farmers requested to be excluded from the scope of the Bill given the specifics of their activity and their placing in an unfair position. They expressed their opinion that they are not traders, they do not sell fuel and the state cannot release undisclosed smuggling fuel from tankers in known ports and then search for it in the country at 11,000 places. Valentin Zlatev from the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association commented on the huge volume of the gray sector in the sale of oil and This leads to a distribution of around 1 billion. lv. Unregulated. The state itself creates a prerequisite for the gray sector. Zlatev also commented on the problems in the BASIS system and the need for increased control and increase of regulations through the proposed Bill in order to increase budget revenues. He informed the members of the Commission that the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association had approached the European Commission about a violation of the European founding contract for equality. The representative of the NRA Mr. Panov expressed his opinion that there is nothing new in the requirements for farmers. Such exist also now in the Value Added Tax Act. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill on the administrative regulation of the economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854 01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The next report on the submitted bill belongs to the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16 of 7 March 2018, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. At its regular meeting on 31 May 2018, the Energy Commission, together with the Budget and Finance Committee, examined and discussed a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16 of 7 March 2018, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Tatiana Nakova, State Expert at the Directorate of Tax Policy and Mrs. Violeta Baeva, Chief Expert, Directorate of Tax Policy and by the Ministry of Energy Mr. Vladimir Yankov, Chief Expert; from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Ms. Asya Stoyanova, Director of Legal and representatives of associations and branch organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. He said the need to adopt this bill is to refine and supplement the legislation that regulates the activities related to the production and trade of oil and gas products in the country. It aims to identify economic operators in this sector, which will reduce the share of the grey sector and increase the collection of customs and tax obligations from these activities, as well as ensure fair competition in the fuel market. The importer said the bill has sparked wide public response and serious debates among associations and industry organizations related to the production and trade of oil and gas products in the country. He has held a number of meetings, including one with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. These meetings agreed changes to be included between the first and second reading of the Law, most of the texts are already specified and the rest are in the process of specifying. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held, in which the people representative Tasco Ermenkov expressed the position of SG of BSP for Bulgaria and who will vote abstention, because at this moment the draft should be voted in whole and essentially, as tabled and not discussed texts that do not exist at the moment and are yet to be tabled as proposals between the first and second votes. People's representative Ramadan Atalay expressed his opinion that due to the meetings held and the commitments made by the importers to refine the bill between the two voting groups of the DPS will support the proposed draft law. National Representative Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, noted that in relation to the dispute concerning the need for notification of the draft budget, the Ministry of Economy should comply with the procedure and if the bill complies with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2015, to take action for its notification. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy of 13 votes for the European Union, without the opposition, and 5 votes for abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854 01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u139	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Dear MPs, on the Western balcony we have a visit of students from the municipality of Garmen. Please say hello! [[Applause.]] We continue with the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will be presented by Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. At a meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Tatiana Nakova, state expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy and Violeta Baeva, Chief Expert in the same Directorate; by the Ministry of Energy Vladimir Yankov, Chief Expert; by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Asya Stoyanova, Director of Legal Directorate, and representatives of branch and employers' organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. According to the importers of the Bill, the same fills a gap in legislation by regulating the activity related to the production and trade of oil and gas products in the country. It aims to identify economic operators in this sector, which will reduce the share of the grey sector and increase the collection of customs and tax obligations from these activities, as well as ensure fair competition in the fuel market. It is proposed that economic activities in the territory of the country related to oil and petroleum products be carried out by persons registered under this law. Registration covers six types of activities, each provided for general and special conditions for registration. The general conditions are related to not having obligations on taxes and compulsory insurance contributions, not having outstanding obligations to create or store their specified levels of stocks under the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, to have provided collateral for the benefit of the Minister of Economy, not having ceased registration under art. 176 of the Value Added Tax Act and others. The specific conditions are related to the requirement that certain statutory capital or assets are imported, the educational value of the legal representatives of the company, the sole trader respectively, the presence of storage vessels with a certain capacity, the minimum capacity of the warehouse for fuel storage activities, the establishment from which the activity is to be carried out, be permanently attached to real estate and others. It is proposed that administrative regulation be carried out by the Minister of Economy, who will be assisted by the Advisory Council. The Council will be a consultative body in which representatives of the competent institutions who perform control and regulatory functions and representatives of the branch organisations of the persons carrying out the relevant economic activities will participate. The Council will propose measures to optimize the control of compliance with the Law and measures to improve the interaction between the institutions responsible for its implementation. Forced administrative measures and administrative-criminal provisions are also provided for, taking into account the gravity of the infringements. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses which introduce certain requirements for capital companies wishing to obtain a license to manage a tax warehouse for storage and/or production of goods under art. 2, p. 3 or status of registered consignee of such goods. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held in which Mrs. Menda Stoyanova pointed out that in the context of the dispute concerning the need for notification of the bill, the Ministry of Economy, should comply with the procedure and if the bill complies with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2015, to take action for its notification. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. It was signed by Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 7 March 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 30 March 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission meeting was attended by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov and representatives of NGOs and industry organizations from the sector. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Law sets out the activities covered by the Law and introduces registration for all economic operators who carry out them. The general and specific conditions for registration, the procedure for providing collateral, the procedure for recording, deletion and keeping the register of economic operators, the implementation of the control and the relevant enforcement administrative measures and administrative-criminal provisions in the event of failure to comply with the provisions of the Law are described. The competence of the Committee on Agriculture and Food are the texts concerning farmers. The bill explicitly states that registered farmers, who, through an internal establishment and for their own use, are engaged in the loading of tanks of road vehicles, non-road machinery and mechanisation, are obliged under the Law. This activity falls within the scope of the legal definition of the concept of "retail trade' of the Additional provision, where it is stated that in addition to selling products of petroleum origin to end-users through petrol stations, retailing is also charging tanks of road vehicles, non-road machinery and mechanisation used for own use through an internal establishment. The general conditions to be met by persons wishing to obtain a retail registration are the minimum requirements for management companies. They should not have due obligations and have committed violations in the field of economic activity. The obligation to provide collateral in favour of the Minister of Economy of BGN 20 000 per site is also introduced. The special conditions for registration provide for retailers to have minimum statutory capital or property of 20 000 BGN, to have completed secondary education and internship for at least 3 years. The site from which the activity is to be carried out should be permanently attached to a real estate, comply with the relevant requirements for the construction and construction of such sites and provide the National Revenue Agency with data which allow for the determination of the available quantities of fuels. An explicit prohibition has been introduced for third parties to fill with fuel via an internal object road vehicles, non-road machinery or mechanisation. The other aspect of the bill, which also concerns farmers, is the texts regulating the transport of fuels and the means of transport by which it will be carried out. For these persons it is envisaged the amount of collateral to be 3000 BGN. for each motor vehicle. Persons who have carried out economic activities within its scope before the entry into force of the Law should submit an application for registration within three months. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry generally supports the introduction of regulatory rules and procedures to limit abuse in the trade in fuels, but proposes that farmers be excluded from the scope of the bill as they are not retailers of oil and petroleum products. Farmers are end-users of fuels for which a control system is in place and excise duties due are paid. According to the Ministry, the obligations and requirements of the Bill do not comply with the status of farmers and create an additional regulatory and financial burden for this category of operators. From the Association of Farmers in Bulgaria and the National Association of Grain Producers were strongly announced to exclude farmers from the scope of the Law. The National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives in Bulgaria said that the Bill will create serious problems for farmers and insisted their status and the activity they carry out should be clearly defined. According to them, the exclusion of farmers from the scope of the Bill will not solve the problems of the industry, as the other provisions will continue to concern their activities and set an example with fuel transport. In this regard, they called for texts reflecting the specifics of the sector's activities. In the subsequent discussion, the people representative Yordan Apostolov raised the question how farmers who, according to the classification of economic activities, are producing agricultural production in a unprocessed form, are recorded in the context of the Bill and in the activities.. It noted as correct the introduction of a mechanism to secure the execution of outstanding due obligations, but argued that such a guarantee should not be applied to farmers with sufficient control, their activity is transparent, their property is registered and may be subject to postures where infringements have been detected. Notes that some of the non-regulated fuel outlets are located on the territory of former farms and sold to third parties whose activity farmers cannot be held liable. He disagreed with aligning the requirements for farmers with those for petrol stations given the difference in activity. It pointed out that the legalisation of the tanks that farmers use for their needs is an impossible administrative and financial burden for them. It noted the existence of ambiguities in the legal definitions of the concepts used. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the farmers said that in no way can they be classified as retailers because they are the end-user of fuels. According to them, an analysis should be carried out of the current regulatory framework where control mechanisms are in place. They pointed out that the bill can only be supported in the part that does not concern the R & D sector, as it will cause more problems than it will solve. In relation to the questions raised, the People's Representative Emil Dimitrov explained that the aim of the bill is to create clear rules and control the movement of fuels from wholesale warehouses to end-user, as well as the introduction of serious sanctions for offenders. According to him, a distinction must be made between civil service stations for commercial purposes and sites from which it is charged for agricultural purposes. He stated that he is ready to reach a compromise with stakeholders and to refine the most controversial texts. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods without Voices..... 9 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u143	Thank you for presenting the Commission report, Mrs. Stoyanova. Dear MPs, on the eastern balcony we have guests from the 4th class of students from the school Georgy Kirkov, Kazanlak. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u144	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but just a moment ago I took a procedure in the manner of conducting on the topic of Botevgrad. Please inform us again if you are in contact with the Secretary General, because at the moment in Botevgrad boils and boils, there is a blockade there is new information. People are worried. Gendarmerie invades residential buildings. If this silence continues by the Ministry of Interior here, before the people's representation, there is in some way a panic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u145	I understand you, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u146	We are responsible to prevent this situation. Please give us information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u147	We're already in contact with the Ministry. As soon as I announce the interruption, and you, as MPs, will be notified. I'm interrupting work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u148	An importer's opinion. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will read you the reasons for the proposed bill for administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products. It is the first of its essence law regulating the activity related to the production and trade of petroleum and gas products in the Republic of Bulgaria after 1989. It has as its main objectives to identify economic operators engaged in oil activities; to reduce the grey sector in the main sector of the Bulgarian economy; to increase the collection of customs and tax obligations from this activity; and to free fair competition in the country's fuel market. In the past years, numerous analyses have been prepared on the liquid fuel market in the country, which clearly show the serious problem to economic operators and control authorities According to a 2015 Finance Ministry report, looking back several years, about 30% of the fuel sold on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are without paid taxes to the state budget. This represents a loss of income of around 1 billion. BGN for each calendar year. It's been so many years since then. Similar are the observations of the representative organization of business in this field, as well as other non-governmental organizations investigating the shadow economy in the country. The measures developed in recent years to combat smuggling by the Ministry of Finance and Revenue Agencys, the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency, give positive results, but cannot eliminate the problem entirely and ensure fair competition in the liquid fuel market. Among the most important reasons for the insufficient effect is the lack of a global approach, as the two administrations work with common legislation. The Law on excises and tax warehouses and the Law on value added tax, as well as the regulations on their implementation, which regulates many activities without taking into account their specifics. In addition, changes are made in order to resolve specific problems by introducing new requirements which, however, are quickly being circumvented by unscrupulous persons. In this sense, the need for specific regulation of the sector, which is sustainable to increase revenues in the state budget, is necessary. Bulgarian legislation, like most countries of the European Union, foresees the existence of industrial laws. A major example in the field is the Energy Act, which provides for clear and specific rules in the sectors of energy regulated by it. In addition, in recent years, the following special laws have been adopted in Bulgaria governing separate specific sectors: Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, Law on Energy Efficiency, Law on Renewable Energy. The adoption of the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products follows the established in the Bulgarian legal tradition systematization of industrial laws. A gap is added, which is unprecedented in a comparatively legal aspect compared to neighbouring countries or those at a similar stage of economic development as the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, a thorough analysis of the legislation of the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Turkey, Poland and the Czech Republic was carried out. He noted that neighbouring geographical countries in the recent past have faced problems related to unfair competition and developed a strong sector. The solution sought in foreign legislation is reduced to extremely strict requirements for producers and traders of fuels and the introduction of state regulation. The preferred regimes are licensing, including a number of rules, mainly related to minimum available volumes of storage containers and minimum statutory capital, as the most important factors in the fight against abuse. The regulations in the Republic of Turkey and the Hellenic Republic have been adopted more than a decade ago and continue to operate without significant changes in the past years, which clearly confirms the stability of such measures. In countries with similar economic development as the Republic of Bulgaria, namely Poland and the Czech Republic, there are clear processes of regulation of the sector related to production and trade in petroleum products, which are justified by the growth of the gray sector and tax fraud. A clear example is Polish legislation which introduces requirements for registration of economic operators in the sector, and according to local NGOs the measure has led to a 20% increase in the market and consequently an increase in budget revenues within 12 months. In view of the comprehensive analysis of the economic situation in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of the legal models from those countries, it has been assessed that at present no severe licensing regime is necessary to implement. The approach chosen by the Bill is precisely in this direction because it introduces only registration of economic operators. It will allow them to identify themselves as market operators without creating serious administrative interference in economic activity, which is undoubtedly the licensing regime. For their part, registration will help to carry out the control activities of the competent authorities, as they will be able to make accurate and rapid inquiries about the right of a particular entity to operate on the market with petroleum products, about the time when it has entered into it and what its obligations are. Such an approach will undoubtedly contribute to improving control and higher collection of tax and customs duties. In addition, the proposed form of regulation would not create an inadequate administrative burden, especially if the new commitments were compared with the possibility of a serious increase in budget revenues and an improvement in the economic environment. According to the proposed project, the main pillars that should ensure the proper functioning of the market are the introduction of stocks for fuel keepers and tax warehouses; the introduction of collateral for carrying out activities within the meaning of the Law; and minimum requirements for natural persons managing companies with a view to their stability and real desire to participate in the market as loyal economic operators. The text of the Draft for the first time defines the notions of the retail trade, the wholesale trade, the preservation of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Specific definitions for the bottling and distribution of LPG are also introduced. The current regulatory framework lacks such specific definitions, which is currently a serious problem in carrying out the control activity due to uncertainties about the identification of the economic entity and the operations carried out by it. Last but not least, the proposed Bill aims to ensure fair competition in the fuel market. One of the main methods for achieving this objective is to set equal and clear criteria for all economic operators, which are in line with the economic conditions in which they carry out their activities. The proposed bill provides that economic activities in the territory of the country related to oil and petroleum products are to be carried out only by traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law registered under this law. In order not to make it difficult for farmers operating under another order, a special exception relating to their status and activity is provided. In order not to impose additional administrative burdens, activities regulated by other regulatory texts providing for licensing regimes are excluded from the scope of the Law. The definition of products of petroleum origin proposed in the Additional Provisions is consistent with existing legislation and is known to economic operators when performing their current work. The project provides for six activities which should be subject to registration: 1. wholesale trade in oil and petroleum products; 2. storage of oil and petroleum products outside tax warehouses within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; 3. retailing of petroleum products; 4. transport of products of oil origin; 5. bottling of liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) outside tax warehouses; 6. distribution of liquefied petroleum gases. General and special conditions for registration are provided for each of the activities. The general conditions for all activities are set out in art. 7. They aim to ensure that persons who wish to register within the meaning of the Law do not have existing obligations towards the State and that they have not committed any violations in the field of economic activity. The provision of collateral shall also be introduced in favour of the Minister of Economy, aimed at ensuring the fulfilment of the obligations of the persons they hold under important regulations, as well as of public public public claims arising on their basis. The lack of such collateral at the moment leads to serious fraud and violations which remain unpunished due to the use of legal remedies which make it virtually impossible to collect sanctions. Particular attention is paid to the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. In recent years, numerous individuals have failed to fulfil their storage obligations, thus calling into question the provision of oil supplies in the event of a crisis. This is mainly due to the fact that the calculation of the exact quantities of stocks is calculated for the past year and is due after 30 April of the following year. In order to resolve this problem, it is envisaged that the collateral has a minimum duration of..................................................................................................... The amount of guarantees provided shall take into account the activities and resources available to the undertaking in order to carry it out. Limits are foreseen. The texts also take into account the already existing collateral within the meaning of the Law on excises and tax warehouses and the Law on Value Added Tax, so that situations do not arise where, in practice, double cover of the same obligation takes place. The establishment of a public register of registrations issued is also envisaged. The specific conditions for registration by activity relate to requirements for minimum paid-up statutory capital or assets, educational censure, as well as minimum stocks for fuel storage activities. The obligations on persons are imposed as the possibility provided by the Commercial Law should be suspended to register companies engaged in the production and trade of fuels with low statutory capital. These activities are high-risk, including for the budget, both in respect of tax fraud and in relation to possible infringements of other regulations, some of which relate to environmental protection and the protection of the population. In this sense, economic operators in the industry should have the resources necessary to cover these obligations. Also, revenue agency data shows that companies with low capitalization and no infrastructure are among the most frequently committed infringements in the sector. The introduction of an educational price requirement is intended to terminate the registration of companies and transfer them to illiterate persons, as this is one of the main means of carrying out tax fraud. There are also requirements for minimum storage for storekeepers that align the conditions between tax warehouses and oil bases. Specific conditions are set for filling and distribution of gas, taking into account the specifics of this industry both in terms of stock and the minimum number of bottles and other economic criteria. The requirements for the storage infrastructure to be permanently attached to real estate are also provided, which should be established by employees of the responsible and competent institution. The text prevents the practical existence of so-called mobile sites for the sale and storage of fuels which pose a serious threat to the environment, life and health of the population. With regard to means of transport. The project offers opportunities to improve control by introducing registration requirements relating to legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road and rail. Provisions are also laid down to ensure the application of the regulatory texts to the Measurements Act. The envisaged regulation of the sector will be carried out by an Interdepartmental Council where applications will be submitted according to the necessary procedure. They will specify the time limits and the rights followed by it. The control of compliance with the provisions of the texts should be carried out together or separately by the employees of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Interior, the National Revenue Agency, the Office of Customs and the State Agency of State Reserve and Wartime Stocks, the State Agency of Metrology and Technical Supervision and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. There are other changes in the bill, with the text of which you will be familiar. The most important thing is that the Law should enter into force six months after its promulgation, so that all interested entities and economic operators have sufficient time to bring their activities into line with the new bill, and for individual activities, a longer period is also provided for, so that they can carry out without delay all coordination actions relating to the activities of their sites. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the motives that led us to the bill. Now, if Madam President allows me, I can make my speech within the time frame.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u150	Yes, go on, Mr. Dimitrov. We have already included the speaking time because you have overdue the ten minutes for an importer's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u151	Thanks, that's fair. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to introduce you to the main details of this bill, to break down some of the myths and legends that have emerged around it and create a false idea both in society and in certain sectors that are interested in the functioning of this law. The first was that this law rearranges the business. The law does not in any way redistribute, close or open new filling stations, new gas stations, new sites, create no new stores for gas, either for fuel, no higher education is required by tractors or any other similar. All commercial sites that are registered so far under the current legislation and have in place measuring instruments will continue to work exactly as they are registered and where they are registered. Everyone else is illegal. The law does not limit whether you have a gas station or a hundred, whether you have a gas station or ten, twenty, thirty, or as much as you want, whether you sell a ton of fuel through your sites or an object, or sell hundreds of tons. There are no restrictions. Everyone continues to work in their activities exactly as they have worked so far. With regard to transport companies. There were large company worries that said that we wanted and set unfulfilled conditions for them. The only condition that is reflected in the Bill is that they comply with the current legislation on the Road Traffic Act. These are two things: to have the ADR "International Convention on the Transport of Dangerous Goods," to be registered because otherwise they are illegal carriers; the other is to have insurance. I will not remind the case in Hitrino when I turn a train and it turns out that because of our poorly functioning local legislation, the insurance officer was not actually obliged and there is no need to pay the big guarantee or the big insurance that should have paid if this train had turned into any other country of the European Union. We have the same problem with carriers. The insurances issued in Bulgaria apply in one way. Same insurance, if an event happens abroad, it's completely different. So we should have brought them together. We don't have any demands to transport or any new ones. It's enough to be registered under the ADR and have paid insurance. There was a wish in the Bill for 3,000. lv. collateral, but transport companies objected and said the other requirements were sufficient and the working group accepted their vision. With regard to farmers. In practice, this law creates a number of administrative reliefs and preferences for them. The Law on Construction in the Area for their internal sites will not apply, they will not have to use level meters and introduce them, and they are also allowed to be able to load up to one tonne of fuel into their sites outside the locality and are subject to their activities, because part of the technique is not allowed to move on the Republican road network. I would say that all their requirements are accepted by the working committee. With regard to the gas market. We have two types of exception of the importers - one is auto-charged cars, the other is of bottles for domestic consumption - those that are over 5 kg. Currently, the practice adopted and the legislation in force is to charge only cars and those with separate jobs meeting the relevant fire requirements and safety are able to load tourist stoves up to 5 kg. Everything else is in the field of the other part of this industry that deal with distribution and filling of bottles. There, too, we have agreed with transport, with agriculture and with the construction industry. We have agreed that the deadlines will be a little longer so that they can be aligned. Let me explain what this bill has to do with the big business people in Bulgaria who import or process the huge quantities of fuel. They also currently have obligations for license, warehouse, all fire, environmental, insurance, banking, customs, tax requirements, to meet the requirements of the State Reserve and wartime stocks. That is, because the state is currently unable to purchase the 90-day stocks that we are obliged under European law to store for a case of crisis, natural disasters and so on, we have obliged businesses for a long time by their own means or rented warehouses to store, on the basis of their last year's imports, for 60 days the volume they have imported. That's why they put money in, pay rent. It's all at the expense of business. For every violation of these rules, they are threatened with withdrawal of a license. So big business pays its dues for dealing with this industry. None of these obligations apply to retailers. They have the only obligation to be registered. The bill, which is for first reading, provides collateral of 20 thousand. lv. I do not know during the debate between first and second reading whether it will be adopted. It's the only thing they have to do. Nobody's shutting down gas stations. Nobody's gonna make anyone become a wholesaler or a retailer. Everyone does what they think they do. There are no restrictions, as I told you, whether to have one column or twenty, whether to have one gas station, twenty or two hundred, and what volumes to sell. With this bill, the bodies that did not exist in legal peace until now are legally regulated. Before I finish, I would like to say the commitments that I have made to the working group and to all the industries that agreed, because at the beginning, when we presented this bill, there were MPs who said: We continue to have MPs who are still against it. I respect their vision and opinion. The commitment I have made was read by the MP Martin Tinchev in the report of our committee. These are the debates we held in the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Economics, Transport, Energy, several working groups in the Council of Ministers and with all sectors, for which I thank them for joining and helping them. My commitment is all the proposals they have agreed to and approved to the last Commission, which was jointly between Energy and the Budget, came and said they support the already adopted amendments to the bill. Of course, fellow Members, you know that before first reading no changes can be made, but this commitment is formalized, described in transcripts, written in their proposals to us and adopted by the working group, I was obliged to include it in the reading report, and I have committed myself to making all the proposals made personally. From this tribune, I would like to say that tomorrow I will put the bill in the form in which it was tabled, with the corrections already made, to analyse all my fellow Members who are willing to make their proposals between first and second readings in order to be accepted and to gain a better look. Finally, as regards the introduction of technical regulations. We do not introduce new regulations, new standards or new measuring instruments, and for farmers we do not introduce appliances at all. With regard to the amount of risk and collateral, I can say that a gas station could cost 200,000. BGN, could be worth 2 million. BGN, it can have fuel for 50 thousand. BGN, and there may be a lot more. When you have one such object with such a large amount and the risk to the state is great, one collateral of 20,000. BGN, which will practically come out through the bank 400 BGN, is not great, but despite everything between first and second reading we are open to all discussions and suggestions and so, as it has come to understanding with the other sectors of agriculture, transport, carriers, construction industry, I hope we will find others. For the notification we will have a special meeting at which to assess is there a need, or is there not? All relevant and competent institutions will be called to it. Thank you to all those who supported the Law. Thank you to all who contributed to it becoming very good at the first reading, although it really has to happen between first and second. I take the commitment that all the conditions and editorials made should be included between first and second readings. I'm ready to answer all your questions, if you have any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Replies to Mr. Dimitrov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Colleagues, we expect the Secretary General of the Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov to be here at any moment, so we will continue the discussions until his arrival. We'll continue the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our group will, in principle, support the submitted bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, which should introduce regulatory regulation of economic activities relating to the trade of oil and petroleum products, to establish clear rules and procedures for economic operators, preventing the possibility of misuse of the trade in fuels. We believe that it is extremely important for farmers to be excluded from the scope of the Law to be taken into account in the report of the committee responsible for reasons and proposals for amendments to the bill in order to ensure that farmers are excluded from the scope of the Law in order not to be made difficult and to provide for a different order in line with their specific status and activity. Farmers are not retailers of oil and petroleum products but are end-users of fuels for which a control system is in place and excise duties are paid. At the same time, the bill, as submitted to the National Assembly, does not provide for exceptions for this category of business entities, but includes specific and inappropriate in their status obligations and requirements creating additional regulatory and financial burdens. We therefore propose, in order to respect the commitments made by the committee responsible for the agricultural sector to industry organisations, that a public agreement be reached that the texts voted at first reading will take into account the proposals adopted in the committee report for amendments to the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the problem with fuel abuse and excise duties has been for years. That's stealing in a literal sense. A colossal amount is not included in the fuel budget. This is stolen money from society, from all of us, including the teachers, from the pensioners, so I agree with Mr. Dimitrov, who once said that this law may be one of the most anti-corruption in recent years. You are well aware that requirements have been introduced for the fuel of ports, borders, large bases, refineries and about a large part of around 3200 legal gas stations. According to experts, however, there are still over 30,000 sites that pass through and sell fuels without any control. Why do they have to be the exception to the rules? Isn't that a double standard? Why should some gas stations be in the light and others in the dark? Is there any use to the public? Why is it so scary to control the amount of fuel that passes through these objects if this fuel is for their use? The owners of such illegal, unregulated gas stations are the only ones who are most aggressive about this bill, but it is not fair for them to hide behind the farmers' backs. It's not right for them and for all traders who pay their taxes with integrity. Why is there a capital requirement for companies involved in this sector? It's just because from Ltd. with capital 2 leva, society can only take those 2 leva against the thousands of levs that the dishonest trader has hidden. Why do we have a censure requirement? Because this same dishonest merchant can transfer his Inc. to some illiterate and poor person, as has happened many times. Nobody wants to throw anyone off the market. On the contrary, this law in no way prevents you from becoming a small trader, to become a big one, but it does not stop if it does not happen by the rules. Moreover, this law prevents another danger. For the most part, these objects represent tanks, cans, all kinds of vessels that are located in the courtyards and basements. What if there's a fire, if there's casualties, if there's environmental consequences? As Mr. Dimitrov said, we will continue the meetings with all interested parties under this law. I am sure that in the talks everyone will be convinced that they do not lose, but instead win. They benefit from the transparency we seek. Those who will lose, these are the phantom companies, the dishonest players and the thieves of VAT and excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Why it comes to this law is perhaps the question with which we should start, because such laws are sectoral, there is also another type of excise goods. My answer is that we come to this law because there is largely a failure to comply with the basic commitments and obligations of the institutions in the country, and in particular the revenue administration. For this we can also judge by the way this bill was circulating in the committees in the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that he's been running between the committees for a few months. For this we can judge if we do a retrospective and analysis of the opinions, because at the heart of this law are the findings of a working group created by an order of the Prime Minister, including all the main institutions and ministries involved in this process, starting with the Chairman of the Working Group of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Revenue Agencies. And then, notice, read the initial opinions of these ministers in which they explain: yes, a nice law, but, see, there is a need... I ask this question because there is no point in adopting any law that introduces order and rules in this activity if the relevant ministers and their security agencies do not intend to implement it. It is strange that we come to a discussion of such a bill, we look at such a bill without the active country in it being the ministry, which is committed to ensuring the revenue side of the budget, as is the Ministry of Finance. I, by the way, don't know if the Treasury has changed its mind from the original? Because the Ministry of Economy has changed its mind. And finally, he supports it with two hands. That's very strange. Months ago, we discussed the scandal with the Information System of the Customs Agency, from which, despite all the things we have witnessed, several things are clear that this system is being manipulated or allowing it to be manipulated and that it is currently being upgraded, you see, something is being upgraded so that all the control points exported do not allow to be manipulated. This is the system that must monitor and measure the movement of fuels, which directly affects excise duty and VAT collected. My conclusion is that with this system and what we are witnessing, we have rather an attempt to organise and control smuggling because, once the system can be manipulated, it is clear that this can only happen from the highest levels in the country and they say who can do what in the country. Although we have repeatedly made efforts with amendments to tax laws to introduce measuring instruments to all major importers, producers and traders of fuels, to say that there is some progress there, despite once again the grace periods that have been given during this year in the introduction of these instruments, but there is still another major issue in the fuel sector, which is precisely the misuse that is being carried out with VAT. In order to prevent this scheme, which, again, is directly damaging the budget, there must also be control over all end points of sale, of the realization of fuels. If there is any purpose in this bill, it is precisely this.. he should regulate and introduce a public register of these points. As the importer said, let's try for the first time to put regulations there, because we are telling them at the moment the sites are not covered or the gas stations are not covered. You understand what a nonsense all this is? I would be delighted if with this bill, between first and second reading, these objectives are fulfilled, but my request is, Mr. Dimitrov, both to you and to your committee responsible for these good intentions to introduce a regulation, to introduce rules which, however, I say clearly, must apply to absolutely everyone. In any way, I would like to tell you that we will not accept, through these good intentions, rules and regulations, to reorganise relations in the sector, to use this bill to eliminate one or other players in the market and trade in fuels, in this case............................................................................... This is what we will follow in the texts that will be proposed between first and second readings. That's not the purpose of the bill. The aim of this bill can only be the fight against smuggling, the fight against the grey economy, and it is the first step towards free competition and clear rules for everyone, which is ultimately also useful for Bulgarian citizens and should lead to significant revenue in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Replies to Mr. Boychev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we of the Parliamentary Group will not support this bill, because in our view it does not change the current situation in the country related to petroleum products. And worse still, I will quote to you by memory from the statement of the importer Mr. Dimitrov that he also confirmed before us that this bill will not lead to any change and explained that you do not worry, everyone will work as he has worked and nothing will change, that is to say that we remain convinced that both the grey economy and the smuggling and the non-existent cartel agreements will not be changed. Thank you. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Any lines to Ms. Taskova's statement? Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u161	Colleagues, I will try to respond to Mr. Boychev and Mrs. Taskova's statement. Indeed, during the discussion of the Bill, many opinions came: two from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, from the Ministry of Finance, three from the Ministry of Economy, from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the Ministry of Energy, from the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks. In the original version, there were a lot of things that we all didn't like. I'll give just one example for a gas station was required 20,000. lv. collateral, for gas station lv. Agree that they are equally risky. There's no need for such disproportionateness. Similarly, there were concerns in the various ministers at the beginning of the review of the Bill. When we introduced them to the final version and realized that we were not introducing new appliances, not new ones, but in a new place, but we are not introducing them even to farmers. These appliances continue to operate with a minister's order for years and every year even update their software products. The ministers then changed their opinion and understood what was going on, agreed and supported the bill. There's no pressure on them at all! During one of the committees asked why one of the ministers was missing. There were opinions of ten other ministers. Did they all have to be in the hallway waiting? We believe that when there is an opinion sent and it bears a signature to the Minister, it is heavy enough and there is no need for him to recite it to us, especially when it is for a committee that is not leading. When I said that this law wouldn't change any relationship, I meant that it wouldn't make anyone with one gas station not buy a second or if there were 20, have to share it with a co-owner, because, for example, we would give it a limit of no more than 10. This law in no way regulates business and stops it from developing independently. You're willing, you're a retailer, you deal in gas stations as much as you think you're okay with, whatever volume you want, as many gas stations as you want. We don't have a limit, and he's not trying to shut down a business. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u162	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. That was a line to Mrs. Taskova. Are you gonna answer with the back or not? I won't. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior is here to inform us of the situation in Botevgrad. Please vote for admission in the Chamber under art. 49, para. Two... [[Noise and lines.]] You want us to vote on the law and then? All right, as long as there aren't any other speeches, colleagues. If we all agree with this, I will put to the first vote a bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854-01-16, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 20.03.2018. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 109, against 21, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, since, as I said just now, the Minister of Interior is absent and abroad, here is the Chief Secretary of the Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov, who will give us information about the situation in Botevgrad, but we must allow it to happen. Please under art. 49, para. Two, let's vote hall pass. They voted 136 MPs: 136, without objection and abstention. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Secretary General to the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to take your seats and ensure the necessary silence. You're welcome to inform us, Mr. Secretary General. Mr. Ivanov (to Ivan Valentinov Ivanov), please take your place. Mr. Secretary General is here at your request. Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u163	Can we ask questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u164	No, we can't ask questions because the procedure is not a hearing, it's information that the Secretary General gives. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary General.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u165	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I'm going to introduce you to the situation within what the law allows me, as the case is being brought to justice and the operational and search activities of the investigation continue. Report concerning a signal for shot persons in the town of Botevgrad on Blvd. It's March 3rd. On June 5, 2018 at 23.02 pm, a message was received from an anonymous person who reported that a man 39 years old from the town of Botevgrad was shot and was transported to the Emergency Centre in the hospital in the town of Botevgrad. Immediately organized police action, available forces. The site was visited by an operational investigative group at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Sofia. A survey was started where it was found that in the town of Botevgrad, Blvd. March 3rd, a pedestrian alley across the street from No 71 was found a body of a man with gunshot wounds. During the examination of the corpse, as well as the taken dactiloscopic prints from the left and right hand, carried out a subsequent dactyloscopic examination by comparing the dactiloscopic sheet taken on the police registration of the person, it was found that the same person was the deviated from the punishment of being deprived of liberty.. Vladimir Pelov Stefanov, living in the town of Botevgrad, Sofia District, Street will not read the address. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Stefanov has four gunshot wounds, three in the right leg and one in the head area. At the scene were found three gunshots, respectively.Valter.........................Makarov pistol........................................................................ The relevant procedural actions have been carried out, dustings for gunpowder from Stefanov's corpse have been seized. The injured person for whom the preliminary information has been received was transported to the Emergency Center in Sofia with two gunshot wounds in the abdomen. The same is carried out a life-saving operation and is located in a ward in the Reanimation of the Pirogov. As a result of these actions on the ground, there was a situation in which many citizens came out, gathered in the relevant place, there were tensions, because they had no information about the case, various rumors were floating about the victim and so on, which forced me to urgently organize and send forces from the Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs and Forces to the Department of Gendarmerie, in order to restore public order and not to allow self-arresting on the spot between the gathered persons. A live person has been certified from which to take gunshot residue abrasions from the other injured person, which is placed in the "Pyrogov." A check was carried out for persons, possibly witnesses in residential buildings located near the scene, and all who have accepted, have perception or are listed as having evidence of the serious crime committed. In this case, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated according to the description of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Sofia, and respectively the District Prosecutor's Office of Sofia. On the spot I sent the Director of the Directorate-General for National Police, respectively there was the district prosecutor of Sofia with a view to organizing and controlling the investigative actions and organizing operational search activities that are actually continuing and at present you know that we are continuing the search of the other person who has strayed from prison. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] At the moment in the territory of Botevgrad, procedural and investigative actions are being carried out. There is and will remain the increased police presence in the area. With regard to the wanted Pelov, you know from the beginning, when he deviated from prison, there were respectively two pre-trial proceedings that were regarding the escape from prison and the attempted murder...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u166	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u167	...of prison guards. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u168	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u169	With regard to the signals we have received about the whereabouts of the person, the formed headquarters, which is acting and continuing to act at the moment, has reacted immediately to absolutely any signal submitted by citizens or individuals who have requested anonymity in relation to Pelov's whereabouts. All signals have been checked by all possible means that allows the law, including the last sharp signal we received. On 2 June a specialized police operation was conducted on the territory of Botevgrad. In view of the identity of the escapee and what is confirmed at the moment that he is armed and ready for resistance, special units were sent to check the building. Unfortunately, the person wasn't identified. Absolutely all signals that have been received have been checked until complete clarification, until complete withdrawal of the information that it is located there. That I can report on the case, because, as I said at the beginning, there is pre-trial proceedings that limits me in the information that I can give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Colleagues, thank Mr. Marinov for the information he gave us here. Thank you, Mr. Secretary General. We continue with our agenda points. Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov. A declaration on behalf of a group has Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u171	Madam President, honourable Members! Although today we expected the Home Secretary to appear, as this is the person who bears responsibility for the work...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u172	He's in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u173	...to the Ministry of Interior, the Secretary General appeared and yet we received some partial information. Unfortunately, this partial information does not bring the satisfaction that Bulgarian citizens expect, namely that their lives and security and their health are guaranteed. Last night, we witnessed an extremely serious shooting incident. [[crowd cheering]] , in the center of Botevgrad. Two armed men, one I would like to point out, did not deviate, but escaped from the central Sofia prison, armed, after shooting, chased by the cleaning lady. I say again, there was no cleaning lady in Botevgrad to stop them from killing each other last night. Only luck saved the residents of Botevgrad from being killed in this shooting, because here we heard there were three firearms. By today's hour, I regret that Mr. Marinov was not thorough enough, because we learn from the media that there are raids of residential buildings that do not know what they are looking for. It's written about explosions. [[Noise and lines.]] All of this can lead to a definite conclusion. The management of the Ministry of Interior has obviously abdicated from its commitments. Bulgarian citizens to date do not feel secure. Bulgarian citizens cannot walk the streets in the evening hours. There's a firing squad following a firing squad. That means people have taken the law into their own hands. This means that they do not feel the support of the state. They do not feel the defence of the Ministry of Interior, to which they are entitled under the Constitution. Instead, laws are voted here, laws are proposed in which the powers of the Ministry of Interior to be transferred to private companies, to be transferred to municipal units, to be transferred to whomever! We're gonna put people in jail that we found out today with nets, little nets where they catch fish, but the main ones are the criminals. [[crowd cheering]] , criminals who escape from prison, who kill people, walk free. And no one knows where the other criminal is, who escaped from prison with him. To date, what should happen to another cowboy western shooting?! Is that what's supposed to happen and innocent citizens are killed?! This statement on behalf of the parliamentary group is an appeal to the Ministry of Interior to work and citizens to feel that we have a state that we have laws that are being respected and that every Bulgarian citizen must feel the support of the state for himself, and not feel threatened at any moment whether any escaped prisoner who has not strayed will not draw a weapon with deleted numbers and shoot him while moving. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. And since shortly before that, at an earlier stage of our sitting Mr. Angelov said that I tolerate certain parliamentary groups when reading declarations on behalf of a group, just to tell you that I have a reference from the information system. I can point out to you that on 11 January I gave Mrs. Nino two minutes too much, to Mr. Tsvetanov 54 seconds. On April 18 I gave Mr. Veselinov 2 minutes and 4 seconds, Mrs. Nino 2 minutes and 4 seconds and Mr. Tsvetanov 2 minutes and 38 seconds. I'm not gonna keep going. There's no trend, Mr. Angelov. Such is the appeal which I have previously delivered from the stands of the National Assembly that the chairmen of parliamentary groups should be good enough to make the declarations within 10 minutes. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u175	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it appears from this report that only we of the Parliamentary Group of Voljas are discriminated against and at exactly the tenth minute, the second second second we are cut off and we are stopped by the microphone. I won't forget: two days ago 10 seconds you didn't let us go. So I'm really going to ask you for this tolerance, and I welcome it. By the way, when I'm in your place, I also give it to everyone as possible. After all, consider us equal colleagues of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u176	Just so you know, Mr. Mareshki, on May 30, you had a total of 40 seconds. [[Laughter]] There is no discrimination on the part of the President. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT FOR PUBLIC SUPERVISION OF THE REGISTERED AUDITORS. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 9 May 2018. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Please, Mrs. Ilieva, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Before I move on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I would like, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly to make a procedure of tolerance. Please allow Mr. Ognian Simeonov to be admitted to the Chamber a candidate for President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u178	Mr. Ognian Simeonov's admission procedure. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Simeonov to the room. Mrs. Ilieva, I forgot to read the procedures. I will read to you the procedure for the election of the President of the Public Supervision Commission of the National Assembly's registered auditors: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for the Chair of the Public Supervision Commission for the registered auditors, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes during the re-voting as well as in cases where no candidates have been submitted or no candidates have been admitted to the hearing, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance concerning the hearing of the proposed candidate for President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors At an open meeting held on 31 May 2018 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for its Chair under Section IV of the rules of procedure adopted for the proposal of candidates for President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the procedural rules. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that it is evident from the documents presented by Professor Ognian Simeonov, the same meets the requirements of the Independent Financial Audit Act and should be allowed to be heard. Mr. Ognian Simeonov's candidacy, proposed by the political party GERB parliamentary group, was presented by the national representative Menda Stoyanova. Mrs. Stoyanova briefed the Commission in detail on the education and scientific degrees of Mr. Simeonov and his professional path. In conclusion, according to the rules of procedure, she noted that Professor Ognian Simeonov has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation to take up the position of President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors and is convinced that he will contribute to the further development and continuation of the policy of strengthening the regulatory body. After the submission of the application, Mr. Simeonov's personal presentation and presentation of his concept of the Commission's activities for public oversight of the registered auditors took place. In his statement in the first place, he pointed out that when entering his second term, the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors did not have sufficient experience in supervising large, even medium-scale audit companies, especially those operating on financial markets. In the course of the investigation into the case, the Corporate Commercial Bank and the subsequent thematic audits of financial sector accounts, the Commission has accelerated its capacity in this area and to a significant extent managed to become a significant disciplinary factor. According to Professor Simeonov, the achievements should be further developed by seeking and applying forms, methods and techniques of supervision based on a risk assessment that will substantially reduce the delays in events, especially in the financial markets. This implies a significant leap in the status of the Commission's information systems, both of those relating to the audit services market, concerning auditors and their clients and those related to supervisory management. On this basis, it considers that a timely identification of risk areas, auditors and clients should be achieved, allowing for a more consistent and effective application of a differentiated approach to various public significance and threat audits. The audit practice oversight approach shall be strongly complemented by an approach to supervising specific audit commitments. Prof. Simeonov pointed out that supervisory activities, including control over the quality of audit activities, inevitably imply some dose of formalism. However, this dose, in particular with regard to audits of accounts of non-public-interest undertakings, goes beyond the measure, and this should be corrected. Second, Professor Simeonov pointed out in his presentation that the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors had entered into its second term insecure and unstable in terms of its ultimate responsibility for the mandatory financial audit, which was natural under the existing regulatory framework at the time. As a result of the new Act on Independent Financial Audit, which applies the provisions of the amending Directive on compulsory financial audit and the Regulation on the compulsory financial audit of undertakings of public interest, the territory of the free decisions of the Institute of Graduated Accountants is substantially limited and the area of autonomous decisions of the Commission is extended. This displacement of power layers naturally causes some tensions, and at times opposition between the management of the Institute of Graduated Accountants and the Commission, which he believes is inevitable that this should happen sometimes in the future. Prof. Simeonov stressed that it is important for the Commission not to allow compromises with its ultimate responsibility for the mandatory financial audit, and it should be protected with competence, objectivity and continuous consideration of the views and arguments of all interested parties. The Institute of Graduated Accountants is an important interested party, such as its members, and especially those that are part of global and European audit networks, are aware of the methodology and techniques of the audit. Prof. Simeonov expressed his willingness to assist the Institute in the process of restoring public confidence in the profession after the case of Corporate Commercial Bank. In the course of his exhibition he advocated that the communication with the regulatory authorities such as the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, the Communications Regulation Commission and other bodies working with sensitive financial information should be improved in order to acquire the communication system and working nature. On the other hand, the Commission should continuously take into account the views of undertakings that have users of the service from the mandatory financial audit. The Independent Financial Audit Act replaces the Committee with two new responsibilities for monitoring the audit services market and the activity of audit committees. This requires the development of new methodologies, technologies and techniques for their absorption. According to Prof. Simeonov, understanding of consumer views also requires systematic contacts with employers' organizations and especially with associations in the financial sector of banks, insurers, insurers, management companies and others. He stressed that it is important to use the information from the Committee of European Audit Regulators and the World Organisation of Audit Regulators to identify the new trends in audit and assessment of the speed and forms of their manifestation in Bulgaria and, in particular, about the entry of information technology, artificial intelligence and the expansion of non-financial information, which is expected to be confirmed by the audit. In conclusion, Professor Simeonov pointed out that the next term of office of the commission should be a mandate of continuity and upgrade, which would lead to the restoration and upgrade of the authority of the audit profession in society. During the hearing, support for Professor Simeonov's candidacy expressed his people's representative Rumen Gechev on behalf of his colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) - members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, stressing that the candidate is an indisputable professional with extensive practical experience in the field of financial audit. He expressed his satisfaction that Professor Simeonov's candidacy will ensure continuity in the previous work of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. According to T. 6 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova informed the MPs that the only letter from the Institute of Graduated Accountants for Mr. Simeonov's candidacy was received. It supports Professor Simeonov's nomination as Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors and expresses confidence that the supervisory authority will receive the necessary continuity to fulfil the responsibilities it faces with its election. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the candidate Professor Ognian Georgiev Simeonov meets the legal requirements for taking up the position of President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained from the proposed candidate, as well as the qualifications it has acquired, are positive prerequisites for implementing the Commission's competent and responsible management for public oversight of registered auditors. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed candidacy of Professor Ognian Georgiev Simeonov for Chairman of the Public Supervision Commission of the statutory auditors under Section V of the Rules of Procedure to which the draft decision on the applicant applies to this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u180	Read the draft decision as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u181	Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 73, para. 1 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Georgiev Simeonov as Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u182	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Now I expect the presentation of the candidate from an importer. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Section I, point 1 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for the President of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, we propose on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB as Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors Professor Ognian Georgiev Simeonov. Ognian Simeonov has been a Master of Economics and since 2010 he has been a professor at the Department of Finance Control. For most of his professional biography he held academic positions. From 2002 to 2016 he was Deputy Dean and Dean of the Faculty of Finance and Finance, Head of the Department of Finance Control, First Deputy Rector and Vice Rector of Education at the University of National and World Economy; Associate Professor and Professor, Scientific Specialty. Ognian Simeonov has also held other positions related to practical experience in the field of economic and financial control and analysis, internal and external audit and business management, member of the management bodies of various commercial companies, member of the Advisory Council of the President of the Court of Auditors, member of the Commission for the assessment of the quality of audits of the Court of Auditors, member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, member of the Audit Committee of the State Fund of Agriculture, member of the Executive Committee of the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD, member of the Audit Committee of the Ministry of Finance. Author and co-author of 10 textbooks and 4 monographs. Ognian Simeonov has many good organizational skills and competences acquired from the practical experience in coordination, management and administration of people, holding leading academic and other positions. Very good communication and dialogue capabilities are undoubtedly proven in his work over the years. In view of the above, we believe that Mr. Simeonov has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation to take up the position of President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. We are convinced that it will contribute to the further development and continuation of the policy of strengthening the regulatory authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, please come in for a statement. I do not see anyone who wishes to make speeches. We are going to vote on the draft decision that Mrs. Ilieva introduced us to a moment ago. I put to the vote the decision to elect a President of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Congratulations, Professor Simeonov! We wish you a successful job! [[Heckling]] That's the kind of unanimous choice we haven't had in a while. Please come in and say a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u185	I thank all Members of Parliament for this unanimous vote. I'm very impressed, and I owe you very much. I hope that when I close my mandate, I will have the opportunity to feel calm, with a sense of fulfillment of duty, as now there is reason to feel my predecessor Mrs. Vanya Doneva. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u186	Thank you. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR CREDITS. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u187	Madam President, before we begin, please let Mrs. Nina Stoyanova, Governor of BNB be allowed to vote in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u188	Please vote on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u189	The Act for Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of the law: the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following 1. A new para is being created. 5 and para. 6: Where an interest rate benchmark used by a bank for a reference rate under credit agreements changes substantially or is no longer being drawn up, the bank shall implement an action plan drawn up pursuant to art. 28 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. (6) The bank shall notify the client by the order of para. 3 and 4 for changes to the credit agreement arising from the implementation of the plan under para. 5. At the time of the implementation of the plan under para. 5 the new interest rate of the loan agreement shall not be higher than the amount of the interest rate of the contract prior to that time. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u190	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the name of the bill, which the Commission generally supports, in principle, its amendment proposal and the version of § 1 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u191	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 2 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u192	I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 2. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u193	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... The provisions of art. 58, para. 5 and 6 shall also apply to credit agreements concluded by 1 July 2018 on which a reference rate is used as a market index such as LIBOR, EURIBOR or SOFIBOR, unless otherwise agreed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u194	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of the division and the newly created § 2. 90 MPs voted: 72, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u195	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Law on Real Estate Credits of Consumers (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 25 are created. 6, 7 and 8: Where an interest rate benchmark used by a creditor for a reference rate under credit agreements changes substantially or is no longer being drawn up, the creditor shall apply an action plan drawn up pursuant to art. 28 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. (7) The lender shall notify the consumer in accordance with Article 3. 28 for changes to the credit agreement arising from the implementation of the plan under para. 6. At the time of the implementation of the plan under para. 6 the new interest rate of the credit agreement shall not be higher than the amount of the interest rate of the contract prior to that time. (8) Where the consumer early repays his obligations under the credit agreement due to a change in the contract resulting from the implementation of the plan under para. 6, compensation under art. 41, para. 3 is not due
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u196	Let's see if there are any statements under § 3? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 70, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u197	The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ The provisions of art. 25, para. 6, 7 and 8 of the Consumer Loans Act shall also apply to consumer real estate credit agreements concluded by 1 July 2018, on which a benchmark rate is used as a market index such as LIBOR, EURIBOR or SOFIBOR.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u198	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the new § 4 created, which the Commission supports. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 76, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u199	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on Consumer Credit (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 33a is created. 5 and 6: Where an interest rate benchmark used by a creditor for a reference rate under credit agreements changes substantially or is no longer being drawn up, the creditor shall apply an action plan drawn up pursuant to art. 28 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. (6) The borrower shall notify the consumer in accordance with Article 2. 14 for changes to the credit agreement arising from the implementation of the plan under para. 5. At the time of the implementation of the plan under para. 5 the new interest rate of the loan agreement cannot be higher than the amount of the interest rate of the contract prior to that time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u200	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4, which shall become § 5, on the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u201	The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... The provisions of art. 33a, para. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u202	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly born § 6. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u203	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u204	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 5, which shall become § 7. Vote 89 MPs: 73, none, abstention 16. The proposal has been adopted, and with this, the second vote on this bill. Moving on to item six on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTER BULSTATE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Who will present us with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs for First Voting? Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Legal Affairs on First Voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 802-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018. At its meeting held on 30 May 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 802-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Ms. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ahladova, who pointed out that it aims to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement to present some official paper-based certification documents. It noted that amendments to the 2016 Special Bets Act adopted legislative steps towards the overall electronicisation of the Central Register of Specific Bets in order to provide electronic services in accordance with the requirements of the Electronic Governance Act and to convert it into a publicly available database of the stated circumstances under the Specific Bets Act. These changes require the need to create an electronic account and unique identifier for all persons and organisations entered in the BULSTAT registry, including foreign natural and legal persons, when they are pledges under the Special Bets Act. The proposed changes shall specify the requirements to the documents to be submitted by the persons to be registered and shall propose detailed regulation of access to the BULSTAT registry, providing free access to the public part of the register and providing legal opportunity for the issuance of certificates in electronic form and their transmission by electronic means. An automated submission of data on the circumstances recorded in the BULSTAT registry is also envisaged and free information exchange between court registers, public authorities and local self-government authorities and local administration is arranged. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Todor Baychev took part in the discussion. The MPs expressed their support for the Bill and welcomed the efforts of the Council of Ministers to reduce the administrative burden of citizens and organizations. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the BULSTAT Registry, No 802 01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018, proposed to support a draft amendment and supplement to the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 802 01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u206	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Will there be an importer's opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u207	Procedure, Madam President. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask for a procedure for Ms. Ahladova's admission to Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u208	Please vote on the procedure so made. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Ahladova to the hall. Will there be an importer's opinion? Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u209	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to begin by expressing my support for this bill, which has been tabled by the Council of Ministers and is the result of the work of the Ministry of Justice. We have discussed this regulation twice back in time, we have adopted changes that aim at data consolidation in the Trade Register so as to ease access and work with these data, as well as to obtain adequate, accurate and timely information on the registration data. This is the next step in the development of the BULSTAT register and we believe that it is entirely in a favourable direction and in a relief of trade and civil turnover. Including one of the important and substantial changes in the case concerned the connectivity of the register with the data relevant and included in the register of special bets. I express my support and appeal to colleagues from our parliamentary support group. I take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Justice and in case there is an opportunity and, if he wishes, Deputy Minister Ahladova to present the bill on behalf of the importer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any lines on Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Ahladova, will you take the floor? Here's an opinion on behalf of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the BULSTAT Registry Act. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the BULSTAT Registry Act was drawn up in accordance with the certification documents set out in Decision No 496 of 29 August 2017 of the Council of Ministers' obligation of the administrative authorities to remove the requirement to submit paper to citizens and businesses of the certification documents listed in the decision, including in carrying out services and activities which do not comply with the definition of administrative service within the meaning of Paragraph 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Administration. The draft Law also takes into account the circumstances set out in the Deputy Prime Minister's report on the implementation of Council Decision No 338 of 23 June 2017 on measures to reduce the administrative burden. At present, the texts of the BULSTAT Registry Act do not provide for the possibility of issuing certificates to the entities entered in the register on the basis of an electronic application and for its transmission to the applicant by electronic means. Once the information system of the BULSTAT registry has been implemented, as envisaged by the BULSTAT Registry Act, it will be possible to issue certificates of entry in the BULSTAT Register of circumstances in electronic form, as well as to transmit them electronically. Secondly, the necessary prerequisites for removing the requirement to provide paper by citizens and businesses with certificates of entry in the BULSTAT register are also created, which is part of the measures to reduce the administrative burden. The possibility of registration of foreign natural and legal persons who are pledges within the meaning of the Special Bets Act in the Central Register of Special Bets will be ensured. The amendments and additions adopted to the Special Bets Act in 2016 are legally ensured both the transition of the activities of the existing legal entity to the Minister of Justice of the Central Register for the special bets of the Registry Agency and the overall electronization of the register of special bets for the purpose of providing electronic services. The construction of an electronic account of each better is also envisaged and a unique identifier is required for this purpose. Currently, for foreign natural and legal persons who may be pledges under the provisions of the Special Bets Act, there is no such identifier. With the proposed amendment to the BULSTAT Registry Act, one will be created. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-06.u212	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ahladova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 802-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2018. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, following the point..Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I suggest we not start today, because there will be a long report and debate. Let's continue it tomorrow, so that's it for today. Tomorrow's regular meeting 9:00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
