ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u1	Hey, guys, good morning. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a point be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly. The point is as follows: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018, which was adopted at the first vote on 28 March 2018, and I propose to make that point. 3 for today's meeting, 10 May 2018 Please vote. They voted 161 MPs: 112 against 2, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. I will read you a message: Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the sending of a formation by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with a common staff of 27 soldiers to participate in the preparation and conduct of a military parade in the town of Buzu, Romania on the occasion of the day of the country's heroes for the period from 14 May 2018 to 18 May 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 9 May 2018. No 803-09-22 and granted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first point for today: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER 2017 Importer is the Electronic Media Board on 30 March 2018. For the report of the Committee on Culture and Media "Please come in, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing a clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Sofia Vladimirova to be President of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 167 MPs: 160, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u4	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 January "31 December 2017, No 830-00-2, submitted by the Electronic Media Council on 30 March 2018 At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 26 April 2018, the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2017, No 830-00-2 submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 30 March 2018 was discussed. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council for Electronic Media (SEM): Sofia Vladimirova The report was presented by Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova. The Council for Electronic Media shall submit the report to the National Assembly pursuant to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television. It provides information on: the audiovisual and audiovisual sector in Bulgaria; it oversees the activities of media service providers; licensing and registration of radio and television programmes; legal activities and case-law; international, financial and administrative activities. The main criterion in the supervisory activity of the regulator is the protection of the audience from violations of the Radio and Television Act in the distributed programmes of suppliers. Traditionally, monitoring of electronic media occupies most of the work of the CEM. In 2017, a total volume of monitoring of radio and television programmes of 28 491 hours has been carried out on 161 programmes, of which there are 89 television programmes, and there are 72 radio programmes. Among the most important accents during the reporting period are: - selection of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Television, which took place under a completely new procedure in four stages and transmitted under the BNT programme 2; - the intermediate role in reaching an agreement between the Bulgarian National Radio and the Musician on the settlement of rights for broadcasting of musical agreements; - the signed agreement between the Council for Electronic Media, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators, the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio on changes in the criteria for assessment of the content which is adverse or poses a risk of damage to the physical, mental, moral and/or social development of children; - specialized monitoring during the election campaign for MPs for the period from 24 February to 26 March 2017. The monitoring takes into account for the first time the participation of men and women in the free election events in percentage terms; - monitoring of events of great public interest; of crisis events; monitoring of the presence of hate speech in the electronic media; - conducting for the first time a study of the content of 17 radio and television programs with specialized music profile; - observations regarding the regulatory requirements for the trade word; - supervision of compliance with the provisions on the volume of advertisements and the volume of advertising spots; - protection of the children's audience against adverse content; - activities in the protection of copyrights and related rights This Decision shall During the discussion the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Diana Savateva and Ivan Chenchev asked questions to which the representatives of the Council for Electronic Media answered. After the discussion, the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 14 votes for the Council of Electronic Media for the period 1 January, 31 December 2017, No 830 "2" submitted by the Council of Electronic Media on 30 March 2018......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, first Mr. Simov, then Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u6	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! In front of us is the report of the Council for Electronic Media, a report which I have been trying to read in full for several weeks and, of course, I fail, as we are looking at an absolutely bureaucratic text, full of dry statistics, in which there is not even a single conclusion about something. As a result, I do not even see what we can discuss on it, as the big topics of the Bulgarian media environment are completely absent from this report and we here can argue whether or not some numeral is so, but in general it is not even possible for discussion. In the report on the debate held in the Commission, it was said that several colleagues have asked a question and have received an answer, but I want to tell you exactly how the discussion took place. My colleague Ivan Chenchev has asked the head of the SEM probably about the biggest question that bullies everyone, namely: what is the situation with the free speech in Bulgaria? Mrs. Vladimirova's answer is a very telling cry, because what can the SEM have to do with freedom of speech?! After all, what does this matter concern them?! This is the answer my colleague Ivan Chenchev received. To be honest, I do not want to say and prejudge the CEM may agree or disagree with which place Bulgaria is on freedom of speech, but it is important to hear its opinion on the issue and this opinion is absent. I recently came across interesting news from 2011, then my colleague Anton Kutev is having a debate with the then boss of the SEM Georgi Lozanov and both are very worried that Bulgaria is in 71 place on freedom of speech in this ranking. Today we are 111 places and there is no worry, because if we open the report, there is not a single word in it. When this Parliament and the CEM refuse to debate the topic of freedom of speech, we can explain why free speech is in this state and why there is no debate on this subject. I don't say it as something that sounds extreme, but in this way, the given report begins to emerge sharply the question: does it make sense and does the SEM need to function? At the very least: why should we look for people related to the media to participate in it? A similar thing can be done by any statistician, and someday, when computer programs develop, it can be done by a computer. I think the SEM should be a different role. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I can't see. A second statement said Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to add that, at the previous meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, I also asked a question which, I do not know why, was not taken into account. It was related to something very specific, namely: the protests of the musical groups to the Bulgarian National Radio, which are still running. My question was to the director of the National Radio: why didn't you redirect some of the three and a half million budget that he had for fees for the salaries of the musical groups? Somehow this stayed like a voice in the desert. I'd like to share some other disturbing facts. In my opinion, the Council for Electronic Media cannot react quite adequately to different situations which relate to its competence. Last year, during some discussions in the Committee on Culture and Media, we discussed what was happening with Radio Bulgaria. You know that the director of the Bulgarian National Radio wanted it closed. I don't know what steps the CEM has taken towards the leadership, which then lied to us, the MPs, about what is happening in the public radio. Something extremely disturbing the Director-General and the Management Board had then decided to close the editorials for abroad. We still don't have an answer what happened to these problems with radio "Bulgaria" and the editorials for abroad? Another worrying fact, which is not new, is from 2016. A car received by the Director of BNR for the members of the CEM, who was asked by Ms. Maria Stoyanova, days after the CEM voted Alexander Velev to be elected head of the Bulgarian National Radio. In my opinion, this looks like something like this: CEZ providing a vehicle to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which would be quite strange. Another worrying fact: the Director of the Specialized Administration at the CEM turns out to be the wife of the Director of the Programme "Modern" who is directly responsible for compliance with the Law in the national programme. In this case, are the monitoring carried out against the National Radio objective? As of the last month we understand that the commercial national media, including BNT, have acts by the CEM for non-compliance with the Law on Radio and Television, but members of the CEM vote that the BNR should not be punished for non-compliance with pluralism of views. It's very strange that you get a double-arshin measurement. I feel that there is some dependence on the management of the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Yotova's statement? I can't see. For your next speech, Mr. Chenchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u10	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My colleagues are right, I listened carefully and I regret that it is a little noisy in the room and not everyone can hear what is said from this stands. The first thing I don't want to say, but maybe that's where we're going: really maybe some computer program would have a better effect than the CEM's reactions at the moment. I'm sorry to say this, but it's nice to hear if it has to be third. As, of course, the situation with the car, which I saw with my own eyes, continues to be available to the Council for Electronic Media. The colleague said, and I fully support her, how will the CEM want an official letter from BNR? Guys, this is outrageous! I don't know if you're listening to what this stands for?! [[Heckling]] Of course, it's outrageous for the regulator to ask for a car from the sub-regulation! Nona Yotova compared it to CEZ asking for a car from the KEWRC. This is really outrageous stuff! In the Commission I asked, I think it is quite normal: what is the opinion of the SEM on freedom are the words? Nothing more. Because I thought, and I noted for the record, that it is in the Chamber of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media that is where this should be heard. It's there! Dear ladies and gentlemen, who are employees of the CEM and work there, it is not the Women's Market that is the place to hear the CEM. Is the SEM there to say what their opinion is on freedom of speech is on the inside, there in the Commission. The answer was quite cynical, I must tell you. We received it with a certain amount of laughter and not only, and with the remark that, you see, the CEM took care of freedom of speech. So, how, guys? How does the SEM take care of freedom of speech?! It's a laugh. There is a saying: The one who laughs last laughs best. I think that laugh's on the back of the media. I don't want this to happen, even the other way around I want to get into a discussion about the role of the CEM at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Shopov then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened with interest to the statements of BSP colleagues, who entrusted the CEM with some over-responsibility, and to the report a super-expected one. Yeah, he's probably not the most interesting reading we can give each other. There's numbers in it, there's monitoring, there's statistics, as you say. The CEM is expected to say something about freedom of speech, about the ranking of the 111th place of Reporters without Borders, a non-governmental organization. I'm going to use the fact that we've gone off the subject of the Report to detach myself and tell you how this ranking is made, which I don't believe in. I'll tell you why I don't believe it. I don't believe it, because the methodology of this ranking is interviews with selected by this NGO journalists. These journalists are asked certain questions and they say: yes, there is no freedom of speech and Bulgaria is 111st place. At the same time, Malta is 37th place, and an investigative journalist was killed in Malta because of an investigation against the Maltese government - 37th place! Slovakia - 26th place, given that an investigative journalist was killed in Slovakia because of an investigation against the Slovak government - 26th place! Bulgaria is 111th place for reasons that one MP, because this is the main argument for the lack of freedom of speech that held seven newspapers. That's what this organization says. Now you're asking the CEM what he thinks? The SEM is an electronic media council and, firstly, is responsible only for electronic media, and it is for television stations. In TVs, public media, BNT and BNR, hardly anyone will bend their soul to say that there is no freedom of speech in terms of government. If the government is the sharpest criticism anywhere, it's in the BNR. Listen up, BNR! I listen to it regularly and congratulate them on this policy. It shows that where politics, politicians are relevant because the SEM is elected by parliament and the SEM elects the directors of BNT and BNR, hardly anyone can say that somewhere else there is greater freedom of speech than BNT and BNR. There are no commercials there. I'll tell you something else about freedom of speech. Freedom of speech is violated by corporate interests. There will hardly be any television to do a deep journalistic investigation against a large advertiser of his or her own, not politicians. However, no one pays attention to the corporate interest in the media, but even if we do, unfortunately, this is not a process only in Bulgaria. We have a transformation of the media. We already have another principle of media: media does not give all points of view, and different media present their point of view. We can say that there is relative freedom of speech when there is an opportunity for different views to be represented by their media. I think there is that in Bulgaria. Another question is what is the quality of Bulgarian journalism. Often the Bulgarian journalists themselves find that it is low, only that the CEM has no powers in terms of the quality of journalism. We often confuse the quality of journalism with freedom of speech. I'm sorry I strayed from the specifics of the CEM report, but that's just how the debate started. I'm sure he needs a debate on freedom of speech! He needs a debate on the state of the Bulgarian media. Let us think about it in the Committee on Culture and Media to organise it, to invite people to hear, to debate these issues outside the Report, because the report is a technical document which I think is correctly written. Again, it will probably not read the most interesting things, but the report does not care to be as interesting. Yes, the discussion is interesting and I urge you to hold it in another format. I would also call on the CEM to organise such a discussion outside the parliament, of course, to invite the media to hear their point of view. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, thank God there are no killed journalists in Bulgaria, but what comes out of the statement? Nearly to have freedom of speech, there should be killed journalists in Bulgaria. Somewhere I heard, I don't remember which TV channel, an analysis that said this: Bulgaria is 111th place, but you see, because you also set an example with Malta, in this ranking was Tonga, which had only one media so the ranking was not correct. Well, in other countries, with a lot more media and they're on the list, what do we think, how do we interpret it? So I agree with you and I am glad that you accept the idea of having a discussion, a debate on freedom of speech. Of course it's necessary. I hope it's not too late. " Better late than ever, " said one of my teachers. In Bulgaria there were beaten journalists beaten. Does this mean that, on the one hand, there is no freedom of speech, or to what extent can we measure freedom of speech? That's why we asked the CEM what his opinion was. What is wrong with the CEM having an opinion in a report on freedom of speech? Who else would there be? Doesn't that make sense? Only in the Report, not a word. Of course, we had to ask, and we'll keep asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mr. Simov, for line two, Mr. Kutev, third.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, let's say I can agree with you whether this ranking is objective or not. The point is, however, that it exists and makes headlines. At least the SEM could speak and say that they do not accept this ranking, that in Bulgaria with freedom of speech everything is fine, that in Bulgaria the media flourish, life is good and every media has the right to praise the Prime Minister as much as it wants. I say it in the circle of the joke, but they're bound to take attitude in such a ranking. Again, in 2011, my colleague Anton Kutev is worried and Georgi Lozanov is worried that Bulgaria is in 71st place. It was a different situation back then. Now we're at 111th place, and the situation is much more dramatic, so we don't have any position on whether it's good or bad. Secondly, you say: freedom of speech is the greatest in the media, which are directly subordinate to the state. I will not agree with you, as there are many different definitions of freedom. Yes, the word is one of them, for example, access to all points of view. Isn't BNB, for example, the media where there are broadcasts when it's five to zero by the same view? There are such shows. It's not the job to debate them now. Is this the freedom of speech to have five people race who more fiercely defend their position, which is the same? If it's freedom of speech, then we live in some alternative country. I will not accept the division of corporate and political interests. In Bulgaria they are intertwined and this is the big problem, not to say: political intervention is super innocent and is not, but corporate interests screw the media. Obviously not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line. That's the third line to Mr. Bikov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u18	Dear Mr. Bikov, a few technical adjustments. First of all, they're not state, they're public media, which is important. Secondly, it is not true that they do not have advertising.. they have mixed funding, including they have the right to advertising, although it is limited in some frameworks, but this is technical. More important to me is, should and should we be able to raise the question of freedom of speech in Bulgaria in the debate on the CEM? You are right that the CEM has only limited powers in this regard and we are actually using the debate on the CEM to raise this issue. However, I have a question for you, as a man of governance who is in the Committee on Culture: where should we put this debate, if we do not put it now on this subject? You yourself said that you should probably get together in the Committee on Culture and Media and discuss it. We probably should, but the agenda of the Committee on Culture and Media is made by Mr Rashidov, respectively by your majority, and a year of governance has passed. Not that in previous governments this has been discussed very seriously, but I, as a representative in the third parliament, already know that during this debate is being discussed because there is no other reason. By the way, the fact that there is no state institution to care for freedom of speech, because the SEM is obviously only partially such, is this, but is this not a question of any government, that is, of your governance at the moment? Who's gonna do it? And the fact that we've been finding out for years that we're getting worse and worse and worse is it? It's a fact, and who's gonna fix it? That is to say, we expect you not to take the opinion now, because it is a good one, and what we expect from you as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media in Management is to propose measures for this ranking to go in the opposite direction from the one in which it goes up and not down. That's the expectation for you. The other is the protection of the CEM, I will abstain from the report for many reasons. However, there is no question, the report will pass, and what will happen to freedom of speech? Who's responsible? Aren't you? [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Bikoff, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to sum up the three lines because they were in the same direction. The most important question is, who is responsible for freedom of speech? Journalists are responsible for freedom of speech. What state authority will take measures to ensure freedom of speech and how does this happen? How does providing freedom of speech take place? I think that we can debate on this question... what are the measures and what is the concept? What's the concept? " Creating an authority to tell what freedom of speech is and to keep track of it. I don't know which country has that organ. I know other countries where there are organs that say which media are good and which are bad. Bulgaria was such a country. There was a magnificent freedom of speech before 1989, but the state could interfere with freedom of speech. It's a fact. However, it cannot produce it because it is the calling of journalists, it is also the calling of the owners of media. This, if you will, is much more in the hands of the opposition than the government. The rulers have instincts, all those in charge of both the current ones and the previous ones and the subsequent ones have instincts to be praised. The opposition is the one that gives the critical point of view. And by the way, if you turn on your TV in the morning, noon and evening, you will see representatives of the opposition in all Bulgarian television stations in all Bulgarian newspapers that criticize the government. You'll see journalists, you'll see analysts and commentators criticizing the government. It's freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u21	Then why are we at 111?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u22	Because I'm telling you that this ranking is manipulative. This ranking isn't right. Reporters without borders are not an authority organization for me. This is my personal opinion of an unauthorized organization! If you're a supporter of Reporters without borders, okay, I don't mind, but this ranking is not relevant. For me, it's not relevant, I'm telling you, in the case of murdered investigative journalists... Do you know what it means to kill an investigative journalist? It means everyone else has to have self-censorship. And there's no greater blow to freedom of speech than that. There's no bigger hit! You can't put 27th place in a country where a journalist was killed and tell me that we're 111th place. This must have worked for you, only it didn't work for the Bulgarian media space because journalists said they didn't have freedom of speech. To go out on TV and tell them how their owners are pushing them. Let them come out and say it. That's how freedom of speech is done. It is done with courage, not done with anonymous interviews, not done with mouse and grenades. Freedom of speech, my colleagues, has been in totalitarian regimes even. She may have been single, maybe there was Georgi Markov. These people have been killed and are still being killed in other countries. That's how freedom of speech is made, it's not done with organs and debates. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. The word for speech asked the people's representative Pavel Shopov. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it's been a debate here, which seems like we're splitting up into government and opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u25	It's always like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u26	No, it's not always like that. There are issues on which we need to unite and agree, because from the statements of Mr. Bikov and from the statements of the BSP I see that everyone understands the terrible problems with the CEM and hence with the electronic media, from there follow Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. We may be fighting here now who will win the masters of the SEM because they are not the Bulgarian state, but they are the masters of the CEM. You all know what I'm talking about, where neoliberals are based, who have been pulling the strings and who have mastered this institution for many years, and hence the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television, from there bring down and upload governments because the electronic media is forming public opinion. I see here that the BSP has begun to understand what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u27	To the Laborante.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u28	Perhaps there is no more unreformed, scarier boner, more obedient and less free institution and sphere in public relations than that of the media. We often grope and criticize the judiciary, talk about health reforms, talk about social changes and fight and fight, and fight each other with their truths, but in this area some people have found it, fought with each other. We're fighting, and they're continuing. They continue exactly to mush, as was said just now in relation to the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian Radio, and with a baton impose their standards, their views and their views. Yes, Mr. Bikov mentioned earlier that the Bulgarian National Television was too ruthless to the government. This is precisely because the current rulers are not acceptable to the neoliberals who have for their favorites one another who did not enter this parliament and who are a minimal part of the influence in Bulgaria, but they should be created an image, they should be raised, they should be constantly introduced into the studios. In fact, they are the ones who should be the alternative to the current so-called left and so-called right and to the current rulers and to the current in opposition. What about the Bulgarian National Television? Nobody talks about it. A moment ago, the question was raised very correctly: where will this debate for the Bulgarian National Television take place? He's no good. And in this report, the questions from the SEM will pull over and ignore the fact that it is terrifying the situation in the Bulgarian National Television. I remember, Mr. Simov during the budget vote made a criticism of why so little money was given to the Bulgarian national television. Mr. Simov, this is part of the truth, but for what to give this money for this television, which has become a private television of Mr. Soros, who through this television imposes standards in the Bulgarian media space, which actually climbs, appoints with state money.. 70 million this year, is it less, is it more for the Bulgarian national radio and Bulgarian national television. Look at the production of the Bulgarian national television station, which is in the most miserable position, which probably swallows a larger public resource, which works with many times more staff and funds than all other television stations and is the most unprincipled, the most unabsorbed television that can be held in Bulgaria at the moment when the sections are boned, I do not know which years are left, where the aim is always to spit on Russia, to always spit on Bulgarian patriotism, is always to elevate those from a democratic community, who at the moment are happily not at last in this Parliament, and for which rubrics, we can give countless examples, we all resent. That's the job of the CEM. Where some hateful news continues in Turkish, which in all of Bulgaria people are constantly asking us: "How long will the national television of a country sound Turkish? " And this SEM has become a baton, and it constantly imposes punishments on this or that television, if it misses something that does not sound like neoliberal ideas that are being confessed to by those very specific people that I spoke to you about just now. And Mr. Bikoff here was very resentful. You're right, Mr. Bikoff from this ranking, which we've scored a hundred and which places. I don't even know where we are, I don't resent it, because I don't pay absolutely no attention to these rankings of reporters across borders, doctors across oceans, white helmets and other similar NGOs in quotes This cannot be a topic of reflection at all, of thinking, of considering, of comments. I give you the freshest example: last night on Channel 1 of the Bulgarian National Television on the day of the victory over fascist Germany Yeah, it's a big tragedy, just to spit again Russia and so on and so forth. I'll give you an example: it was March 3rd night. After getting rid of the Bulgarian National Television of the CEM and the other supreme masters with several reporters, just like that, from this point on, at least other years from each city were given reports on March 3rd of what was happening on the ground, on the country, here, apart from central events, nothing else was shown entirely remotely. It was shown here is also Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov, who understands culture: Mr. Rashidov, the Titanic, the great Bulgarian feature film, in the crowd in connection with the Liberation, with the April Uprising epic, Bulgarian, great, unforgettable paintings of the Bulgarian film. Awesome, awesome! I was stunned. I'll go back to the last example. Yesterday a journalist was pushed, stabbed in his attempt to interview. This journalist was literally abused. In other cases, the CEM and many media would have done an action today all sections, broadcasts, morning blocks, discussions would have started with this fact. We are talking about freedom of speech, we are talking about freedom of journalism, about the rights of journalists. Not a word! Some of the televisions attracted by yellow tried to make variations on the topic, but there was no condemnation as to what we had seen in previous cases, which proved to be sometimes very nurturing as occasions, and the reasons There are also cases in Channel 1 with one host of the morning blocks and transmissions. I will not go into details. Now let's see how the CEM reacts on this case and on this occasion! Let's see how the standards from the CEM will be applied and whether there will be double standards that have been talked about again lately. A topic which "Attack" has been discussing since 2005. Food standards, foreign policy standards, standards in relations between political forces and parties. This is a question for the standards of the CEM, whether the standard of the CEM will be double, whether anyone will say anything. Here's your case, case. I will finish: it is necessary, no matter who is managing, who is in power, who is without opinion and who is abstention, classic, to make radical transformations throughout this sphere. Don't pass, like other years the report mine, numerals, schematics, and Mr. Simov's doesn't mean anything, today goes, tomorrow, ha-ha, hi-hee CEM that's the atmosphere right now. Neoliberals and neosorosians call, they pick up, hire there. A radical change is needed throughout this area, and this change is no less necessary than in many other spheres. I would even say that in other areas change is not as necessary as in this area, because the thinking of people depends on the political system, the attitudes depend, the choices depend, and hence the lives of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Shopov, I just wanted to remind you to ask the people who raised the question about media freedom: which one of you took the journalist's microphone yesterday, who was hitting him, who was hitting him [[(crowd cheering, noise and lines from the hall:) Who? Who? Who?]] And you're the one who's gonna talk to me about media freedom?! Are you the one who's gonna talk to me about media freedom? All of you who hit a journalist yesterday will go to trial! [[(Noise and lines from the hall:) Who? Who? Who?]] You're the last ones to talk about media freedom. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any other lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday I witnessed what happened. I was upstairs, holding the Bulgarian flag and the portrait of my father, who is a participant in World War II. This thing played out right in front of me. I'm sorry, but it was a rather dishonest provocation by the journalist in question. Then he played a monologue, just like at the NATFIZ, and I even congratulate him. I was standing on top of him and I could see the TV filming him, and he was talking, talking about how he got beat up, how his shirt was torn and so on. For me, it was a pretty theatrical set-up that didn't honor anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. I'm just reminding you that the lines are for Mr. Shopov's statement. The second line was provoked, so I did not interrupt Mrs. Yotova. Is there a line to Mr. Shopov? Mr. Velkov, to the speech, I hope. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line, of course, is to Mr. Shopov, according to his claims that someone was stabbed... [[Replys: the Map!]] Mr. Chairman, I have to wait...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u35	The map.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u36	Thanks, I forgot. To tell you why, because of this particular case, Mr. Chairman, yesterday... [[Radio, laughter and cheering: "Eee!" by GERB.]] I'm sorry, I've got another card. Can I be forgiven for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u37	Let's fix the mistake. Please, Mr. Velkov, the audience will calm down. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u38	Thank you, colleagues. Once again, I will say this was a direct result of what happened yesterday. That the map belonged to Hristo Prodanov is a tribute to the great Bulgarian climber in connection with the fate of each other now. [[Heckling]] I'm just asking you to shut up. To tell you the truth, I'm a mild-mannered man, as is known, doing the ant road. But what happened yesterday has crossed all limits, Mr. Chairman. It was a provocation. No one was stabbed, not pushed, not beaten. On the contrary, I was the one who had a crisis. It is known that I am diabetic and had colleagues help me to recover. There was a provocation. Someone wanted to usurp the holiday. He said, "What are you doing here, you have no right to be here and so on."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u39	Mr. Velkov, this time I'm really forced to interrupt you. Slavcho Velkov: That's what I'm trying to say, please don't give in to provocations! Nobody gets beaten, nobody gets torn off, nobody gets torn off! If he's beaten, testify and judge those who beat him! There's plenty of footage. We're gonna want this guy's accreditation revoked. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You failed me with the commitment to speak on Mr. Shopov's statement. The lines are out. Mr. Kutev for speaking after Mr. Shopov's backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u41	Mr. Velkov, you cannot have an authentic opinion because you are directly involved in this, and you were involved in the abuse of the journalist. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In such cases, your opinion is not authentic, it cannot be objective. Now you're trying to mitigate the situation, but things were clear. What were the questions of journalists? You cannot judge journalists for the questions they ask. That's how they figured it out, and that's how they asked the questions. Yes, you resent it. And I would ask you the question: what were you doing there after you at least had a place on this holiday? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Your party, which legitimizes the fascist coup in Kiev, which goes in one direction that is the least suitable to be on this holiday?! It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u42	Mr. Chairman, stop him!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u43	You are constantly making such provocations, and you are also reproaching the scandals you do every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u45	Stop him!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u46	When someone gives you a problem, you're as radical, as evil, as violent as we all saw you yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u47	Mr. Shopov, let's get back to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u48	So on this point, things are clear. My question is: will the SEM not take an opinion on how the SEM will react? Will the SEM be outraged by what was done in relation to a Bulgarian journalist?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u49	Thank you. That was the douche. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u50	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to bring order to this House and, when they clearly measure their rusophile, two parliamentary groups, return them to the topic of the debate. Because, first of all, the debate is turning into a damaging prestigious parliament, second of all, a scene is being played here that is too unworthy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. I share this concern contained in the remark. I admit that I was misled by explicit statements made by the reply that I would stick to the form of the reply to the statement. However, this did not happen.. I could not have known it in advance. Thanks for the remark, I'll consider it. Mr. Kutev, you've stated a statement you're maintaining your request. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wish I could use, as I said earlier, the occasion for this discussion of a few important things. The first is to raise the question: should the state have any regulation on media content? I mean: is it right for the state to regulate the content in the media in any way in relation to the current norms of public and media behavior? Personally, it's my belief that this should happen. From there on, the question of today's debate is: does the state currently adequately regulate media content? And do the regulations that we have introduced first make sense to the extent to which they provide the public with the necessary content? Secondly, do we have the controls on the regulations we have? This is now related to today's report. In my opinion, both things are not the same, that is, in my opinion, the regulation we have is quite outdated, and the world has changed a lot over the last 10 years. The result of the whole work is that now the whole society sees that not only the Bulgarian, European, and American, civilized society now has problems with the content and the way it can be used. We, as a society, are not in a position to make the real regulation right now. So first, I use to raise this question, the Parliament must make this regulation. This may be partly and in response to Mr. Bikov's question whether we, well there is no one else to do it, we should do it. We the government, parliament, have nowhere else to talk about it, there is no one else to make this regulation. That's the first one. The second is whether this regulation is respected and whether we have the bodies that, if we have made the good regulation to abide by them, repeat, the CEM, unfortunately, does not. The fact that the CEM does not even do so in areas where there is any authority, such as electronic media, is also true. But he doesn't have the authority to do it in others, which is not to be underestimated. Here comes the most important question, in my opinion, which we, as a society, must decide. He could have been resolved. I thought about it five years ago, but now he's mature. This is the main question of the public function of the media. Yes, we have two public media, which, however, are 3.4% of the market, I do not know, not to offend them, but no more, unfortunately. What do we do with the other 97% of the market, do they have a public function? Of course they do. Has the state in any way regulated the public function of these media? So do they guarantee the rule of law? Do they work for this? Do they guarantee cultural content? Do they guarantee educational, child content and so on? They don't do anything like that. They don't have a duty to do that either. Both big and small work for profit, they are trading companies and say: we have a commercial interest, do not bother us with nonsense! And we, as a society, have not obliged them to do this.. a key disadvantage of the work of our society, for which here with you in this Chamber we must in some way take action! Therefore, I would like to address you specifically to Mr Rashidov, not with reproach, but with the fact that he is currently the person who should take some measures in: the public content of the media, the manner of regulation, the way of stimulating this content from the state and society. These are key things for us. Next comes the issue of funding the media. As far as I know, the whole advertising market in Bulgaria is currently smaller than the budget of the two largest television stations. If that's the case, what do we do from there? What freedom of the media are we talking about?! So obviously here or we have too much media, which I don't want to think about, because I think the media can never be much, or we have too little money in this market. But this requires decisions and they must be taken by parliament. I don't know who the organ that should do it? Naturally, the culture, I think, is not, the CEM, perhaps to a greater extent. That's why I'm telling you, we're the people who need to take action here! Because the funding of the media in Bulgaria has a huge problem and that is why they become dependent and that is why we are in a situation in which freedom of speech eventually falls. Because they are dependent on corporate or political interests?! Well, let's clear out how much money the state gives to the media and see that it might turn out that as amounts are comparable if not more than corporate. So here we can't say that it's only corporations that keep media content interesting. It's not like that! The state has a huge influence, if not overwhelmingly. So there is also another governance mechanism here that is not pure in my opinion, but let's say that he is even thinking that he is the cleanest because state funding, whatever it is, should somehow strengthen the state's foundations because it should work for this. However, we have not solved the problem of financing and transparency of funding. And with the transparency of property, we haven't solved the problem definitively. Here are the things I think should be discussed in this room. What will be the order in which to discuss whether someone will first sit down and write changes in the laws, ask for them from the executive authority? Whoever it is, we have to solve these cases, and until we figure them out, we're gonna get back to this conversation. I'm sorry that I'm using the debate on the CEM, because what I said has little to do with the CEM. But we have no other reason for this debate right now. I therefore call, of course, on the majority above all, which does not mean that I would not be involved in this quite actively. I've had ideas, I've worked, I've been thinking for years about what needs to happen, and as long as someone who wants to get involved in this job, I'm always here because I think this can't be postponed five years ago, it can't be postponed now! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! I will very briefly say that I agree with 90% of what you say. The fact is that there is a need to regulate the content. Indeed, this is a matter that is very delicate, and me, if you ask me, must be resolved by relative political consensus, so that there are no accusations that regulation of content is censorship, because there may be such interpretation. So at least on my behalf, I can tell you that you have in my face a partner in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u55	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Is there a second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. A hole? I won't. Mr. Rashidov, you've been waiting a long time, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I think there's a meaningful debate today, and it's serious. Thanks to Mr. Shopov, I heard about the good analysis. Bikov is familiar with the problems, we very often talk about this topic and for the first time so 100%. not 90%, but 100% agree with Mr. Kutev because he is 100% right! Colleagues, this is a very big problem. For many years Bulgaria, for years now 20 - 30 years, it is difficult to talk about big journalists, journalists who should be morals, ethics, face, bar, the pity that other journalists should try to reach. Fortunately, there is one such legendary big journalist, Tom Tomov. I happen to mention his name for a reason. Long ago, we lost that rank, big journalists, deep, meaningful! More and more the problem of freedom of speech will be a problem and it is good that the debate on this topic has already arisen. Soon I asked some fellow journalists, whom I have respect for, of course, I do not say in any case that a country should not be respected for having freedom. But is there freedom?! Do we, in this debate, distinguish between looseness and freedom? Where are the boundaries of this debate? I will give you an example of whether we have good legal arrangements to regulate this freedom in a maximum form, of course. Einstein said that everything is relative, obviously, and that freedom is relative. But when does freedom cross borders? Of course, Mr. Kutev is right here. We should all sit down together, and there is no debate here. I'm worried about the journalists themselves, about their freedom. Because I asked the question which Bulgarian citizen, which Bulgarian politician banned freedom of speech? Give it to me, I'll lynch it! I have fought for this freedom 1991 - 1992 and I will give you a book. Here, I've done rallies here with Victor Paskov, the writer, rest his soul! This is a very delicate moment. I'll give you an example. I am telling you one text: "Don't iron your country, because your salary is on this crib too! " - Did I violate freedom with such a sentence? What freedom did I violate by speaking to a journalist from the state media? Well, she's on a state budget too, guys! Of course, that's what I'm saying as a minister. They had jumped that freedom of speech was threatened. Every bounce of certain grenades that freedom of speech is in the hands of the media themselves, colleagues! It's just that laws have to regulate the freedom of money, to what extent owners have full freedom to manipulate society. Are we not witnesses, or do we turn a blind eye to see that in Bulgaria are led us politicians are using us as their mace!? What's my fault to be a weapon in someone's hands? I don't! Colleagues, I need freedom of speech! I'm asking you, I've been a Minister of Culture for eight years, how many times have I been invited to a public television station for eight years to debate something with culture? I won't tell you the names of the shows. They're grenades. Not one time! A single show in Bulgaria is for culture. Ask me for eight years how many times I've debated culture! Not one time! How many times have they talked about culture when Bulgaria first entered its 1300-year history into the world's largest museum and was visited by 3-4 million people in two and a half months? Not a single theme! How many times has the subject been opened, and it's because of Vezdi Rashidov? Why? There's a battle going on against me because I stopped Andrei Nikolov from stealing a house. Big deal! Well, how long are we gonna keep an eye on them? And we're talking about freedom of speech?! In the morning the CEM report suddenly turns out to be the place of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian freedom of speech, of Bulgarian freedom, perhaps it comes from politicians, because their speeches and their language in the media may lead to this thing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Very often even politicians are taken away from talking. Isn't that also the withdrawal of freedom of speech? I ask again: does freedom of speech belong only to the Bulgarian media or to every Bulgarian citizen? Don't I have the right to free speech? I do, and you do. These are the important questions. And now I'm going to give you an example. You didn't forget that Murdoch closed the world's most popular newspaper? Why did you do that? Something's broken. Was English society guilty? I will only remind you 15 years ago, Bernard Tapi sentenced a media man to pay him 47 million. euros for unverified information. Today we have media that can ruin human destinies!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u57	And they do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u58	And they're doing it, guys! We have children, we have families, many of us have some hygiene and morals! Our whole biography sometimes goes to the movies! Therefore, colleagues, I believe that here you are all right, which you have spoken, so that we do not turn it into a policy, very responsible together with the Bulgarian media, because this is one power, the fourth we call it, it is really about respect and we need this freedom. We all need that corrective. Together, we'll have to amend our laws. The only power and power is in the hands of the laws of a country. Yes, I don't mind Mr. Kutev, thank you. If we're all ready, I won't eat frogs myself! Because when they attacked me, and it was the media, Mr. Kutev, and it was the ones Mr. Shopov called "sorossoros" without making a mistake, I'm sorry, we all kept our mouths shut! Why? Well, honor and fear! What was it, colleagues? Isn't our life worth anything? Our biography, our children! So what moral stand, then, are we talking about when they are broken in wars? Thank you very much. I'm ready to gather the Commission. In this committee, fortunately, there are wonderful and intelligent people, and the Commission has really become slightly outpartisan, because party passions always bring us down to something else, and we are really ready to debate with fellow journalists, to whom, again, I say, to good journalists, those that are meaningful, deep respect. Because, see, journalism is an interesting trade. This is the documentary of the time we live in. If journalism is simple today, we will have an elementary future and a simple past, however. Because we're still making history after us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. President Rashidov, by fully supporting this constructive spirit of dialogue, you are saying that we are trying to achieve in the Commission, and I recognise that, in most cases, we are succeeding, I would like to remind you, and on the occasion of Mr. Kutev's statement, four months ago, we, together with colleagues Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, introduced a bill that allows for illumination and publicity both of the ownership of the media and of their funding and ownership of distribution. Apropo last week, that is, three months later, such a regulation was requested by the European Parliament with a call for all countries. My appeal to you: give a move to the bill, support it! I am counting on him to receive the support of colleagues from all parliamentary groups because this is the mechanism by which we, as legislators, can make possible and compulsory transparency of both the media and their funding and their financing in a non-market manner and the distribution of ownership in distribution. Because if this is not done, all good statements risk remaining in the field of populism, from which no one earns. It doesn't profit from journalism, it doesn't gain freedom of speech! So once again I will address you: I am counting on our bill to be given a move and I count on support from all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Rashidov, come on in. You have an opportunity for a back-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mrs. Krasteva, just maybe a few more words to turn around, just letting you know that Mr. Hamid Hamid and Mr. Delyan Peevski's bill I read. I want to tell you that he's made sense. The Council of Ministers also agreed to have some legislative changes. We're waiting for the right moment to really get into a real debate. I will also tell you that I myself am very concerned, especially for public media. We didn't say the word for a reason. This exists, it is not an insulting word, as the other day in a television station I said:...... gendarmes....................................................................................... I guess she's thinking of something else. There's nothing wrong with that, it's human. [[Radio.]] I want to tell you that outside funding in a public media is very dangerous because money doesn't give away because you're sympathetic to them. Money is given for something. A man who takes outside money already has an appointment. This makes some media already dependent. That's what I mean. I don't mean anything by it, but we have to save the public media from addiction. And here Mr. Kutev said something nice: let's think about it! They may and may be well funded or may be poorly funded, but we need to see how public media can be well funded so that they can be real public media, not service media. It is important that we do this because there really must be a place where society can actually be present. That is why I am telling you that I really thank you today. What can I thank you for? You took the subject off the logs today because I think we're all united around a problem that's about to become more and more a problem. And I said, "I'm not afraid for my freedom anymore." I don't go on shows anymore, except for a few shows where I think there are still reasonable, deep-thinking, meaningful journalists, because the rest is to go when someone invites me as a guest and pulls out my AK to shoot me, I'm sorry, I'm not shooting anybody! I want him to have respect for the interlocutor, as Kevork had at the time. So in this regard, the door is open and I have been waiting for this exact moment to debate. I've been waiting. I did not do this thing because the problem of media freedom is growing from the media themselves. And this freedom should all be discussed together with the media. This will have to be a really serious public debate, both for the ordinary person and for the MP. I told you this morning that the MPs are being blamed again. I ask: which one of you banned, which MP banned media freedom? That's no way to talk anymore. It's not fair! I am not a very strong political sympathizer particularly, although I am part of it, but I am already opposed, there are many meaningful people to suggest that the politician is almost the largest... Come on, don't say the word! An unnecessary man. I have a sharp language sometimes and, secondly, this language, and the framework they taught us to speak, are again our friends from the media, they framed us. I've seen a lot of people learn how to talk for 20 minutes, and you're finally yelling, "How good does he talk, but what did he say?" "This is what the media imposes on us, and I'm starting to squeeze my teeth and my tongue to hold it in my ass." The debate I think is open, and as Kutev himself says: Here is the place of this debate. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any other Members of Parliament who wish to speak on the report under discussion? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's go back to what this point is about. Indeed, he has loaded himself with the unexpected, but this is a document that contains the necessary props, the necessary data, and I think we should support it. Why did it happen that our discussion actually went beyond the specific point outside the CEM report? This is actually proof that in the regulation that should exist, there are currently a lot of white spots. I'm going to point the subject at a slightly different direction. Currently, the main news stream is formed by electronic media. Electronic media do not fall under the regulation of the CEM, and when we talk about freedom of speech, it is difficult to make a complete picture without that in mind. Whether they will be under the regulation of the CEM, whether there will be another legal form, we have to decide, but in any case this issue is before us because the electronic media are the producers of false news and even scarier the half-truths. Because the false news quickly exposes itself, much more difficult the audience, the audiences, the listeners deal with the semi-false news where the truth is viciously involved with fiction. When we talk about freedom of speech, I understand that this is a very comfortable gum and it regularly stretches, but really, speaking of the charts, we need to keep in mind the bases on which they are built. I respect every non-governmental organisation, but along with this, we must really have a clear methodology for how the designated countries are arranged. I have a clear methodology for the ranking in question, which we have commented on, I have not seen. The colleague Bikov mentioned that some interviews are being conducted with a certain circle of people. I don't know if that's it. Today, who has information about this methodology, I would be happy to see it, so I disagree, and that would mean that I should self-defense myself as a journalist because I have been a working journalist until yesterday, as it is said that Bulgaria is 100 and I do not know which place. Right now, the problem is not censorship, and I've said it many times. At the moment, the problem is the abundance of news in which the ordinary user, if I may say so, is difficult to navigate. Everything can be read in Bulgaria right now! And if you don't have enough background information, you can very often fall into the trap of your own information. Superinformity is both a plus, because it gives us a choice and a minus because it puts our intelligence to the test. Therefore, the need for electronic media to enter regulation is growing. I think this is also a problem on a global scale, because it borders on the danger, naturally, regulation to cross normal boundaries and enter the area of censorship, but we have to think in this direction. As for the quality of journalism, this is the other topic, and when we are in the lead, we are preparing for some wider debate that will be given to the Commission, whether again in plenary, we should, in any case, also bear in mind the working journalists. Because working journalists are the ones who go to events every day. They usually come into some frames that are set by the people who manage the media, and they find it difficult to get out of these frames. We must bear in mind that the working journalist is the one doing the main work, and we must respect it. Along with this, however, self-regulation in the journalistic communities is very important because I myself would not call myself a colleague with many people who define themselves as journalists. I think the debate is coming. He's got a lot of substance. I also agree with much of the things that my colleague Kutev said, but because colleagues on the left raised the question of freedom of speech several times, I would ask: " Would they have said if they were censored by someone and at what point? In my opinion, even in the worst of times, a journalist can find a way to say what he wants to say and to cause public attention. I am convinced that in Bulgaria there are many quality journalists, and I want to support their work, because they are everyday among the people and I would be inclined to forgive an inadequate question of a journalist put on the spot of an event, but I cannot be so favorable to fiction born on someone's desk. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, I would like you to make a statement in your speech. Radio and television are also electronic media, and in your speech you meant the Internet media perhaps who need regulation because of the fake news, because the Council itself is called the Electronic Media Council and it controls precisely those electronic media that are described in the Law. That's one. The other thing I would like to point out in this speech can be explained about the policy that is being conducted in our country on freedom of speech, expressed in a speech by a minister in 1999, which said: "Feed journalists!" When journalists eat, they cannot be free. The journalist can only be free when he is secured around his existence, which is a very complex process and he will perhaps be part of the debate in the Committee on Culture and Media. And the third, I finish very quickly, freedom of speech. She had it at the time, even though it was limited. In a work case, they did not give more than one cash to publish the photo of Todor Zhivkov, and now in the newspaper on which you cooperate, a person is published from 19 to 29 times per issue. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u67	Thank you. Mr. Simov, come in for a second line. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's run out of speech lines, and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, your question is to say if anyone has been censored reminds me... [[Noise and lines.]] Please extend the time! ...reminds me of the letter of a Bulgarian Prime Minister to the chief editors of the media, whether he ever censored them. There was also such a situation, which in itself is also a form of pressure. The fact is that this ranking, whether you accept it or not, is done and is based on the opinions of journalists. And the opinions of journalists progressively show that in Bulgaria the situation with freedom of speech is getting worse. On behalf of whom, then, are you defending? Working journalists say things are not good, and you say: we must stand up for them. Protect them by admitting the problem. The SEM also has a great responsibility in what is why I personally and also my parliamentary group do not accept their report. It's a pull-over. It's a proforma report written just to present some document that they were working on. I'm sorry, they don't have such great powers, but the very fact that this topic is absent from their report suggests that the state has a problem with freedom of speech and that we all have to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Is there a third line? There is a possibility for a third line to Mrs. Sawateva's statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Sawateva, and to the other colleagues, of course, and to you a line: look, don't look at the CEM. Now what do we want: to attack the CEM today? The SEM is a regulating body, not a repressive organ. Guys, don't treat me like that. Both the laws and the rules that have been passed give so many rights to the CEM, but no one has said that the CEM should hang them already... they don't have the rope. This is what we talked about a moment ago: in order not to make this whole conversation politically again, I think we agreed well to sit down and see the legal arrangements in our country regarding freedom of speech. Mr. Simov, I'm gonna hand you the ball, but I'm gonna tell you one more time: freedom of speech has really turned into a rope that the media themselves play with. She's not in anyone else's hands. Don't! The problem was created by the media themselves and their owners. We should promote that someone is taking away freedom! No one takes away, we're scared. Don't open my mouth. Every day I see politicians who are afraid to ask them bad questions and attack them. No, people, all we have to fear is the Bulgarian laws, as it is all over the world. The law is everything we call democracy. The legal arrangements we live by, not the freedoms. We don't obey the laws, we're scared of the people around us, we don't respect anything. Don't! I think I should say it more humanly, if not politically: sit down and work on this subject if we're going to work. I'm open. If we're not going to work, I'm sorry, it's not just my job and I'm not an expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mrs. Sawateva, you have the opportunity to take part in the three lines on the occasion of your speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u72	As for the fact that I missed for radio and television at the beginning of the exhibition, it is self-explanatory, the report is precisely about this, that is, the coverage of the news and the general news and programming schemes in these two main electronic media. It's a little different. I'll give you an example I missed in the beginning. I gave it during a discussion about freedom of speech, which was organized by SBG last week. In this regard, I have tracked the main emissions on three televisions, and I will not mention who they are, but I have to tell you that as programming time, much more has been devoted to irrigation reports on the protests on 1 May than for any of the government's representatives. This is regarding the presence of various news in television and radio stations. I don't count the number of photos of any politician in the media I work for. I read a maximum number of media as far as I can, both printed and electronic. My idea was to say that right now, if you can't read a point of view in one media, you find it in another. As for what my colleague Simov asked me about censorship, about the question I asked about censorship. The very fact that every day certain people speak at an innumerable amount of minutes about freedom of speech, this is a self-refutation of their thesis that freedom does not really exist. Freedom, of course, is a relative concept. There's no way for anyone to stand in front at the moment, use obscene words and be tolerated. But we're talking about enough information base where people can navigate. Once again, I think the real problem right now is the superinformedness and the opportunity to sift the real one out of the fake one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. The word wants Mrs. Alexandrova on the way in. I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to call on the MPs who are in conflict of interest to declare it because people like Tasco Ermenkov, Slavcho Velkov and Svilenski do not have the least moral right to talk about freedom of speech because yesterday they were hitting, hitting a journalist, took his microphone. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's documented! The smallest thing is to say that you have a conflict of interest, and not to vote, and not to participate in the debate. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u76	Even if you ask me, they should resign these people and leave the National Assembly because because of much smaller things: just some line, people left the National Assembly, and you hit, hit journalists and take their microphones. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. In essence, the call is to call on the MPs to comply with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Where there is a conflict of interest, it shall be declared unconditionally by these Rules, as the Members of the National Assembly shall assess and owe such notification. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u78	Personal explanation, I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u79	There's no personal explanation, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u80	There's no way there isn't, Mr. Chairman. No suggestion can be made by mentioning the name and not being able to respond. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u81	If you want the word in the manner of conduct, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u82	Okay, I want the word the way it is. Mr. Chairman, you are a representative of this party who is currently trying to insinuate untruths into society. I beg you very much, if you and your colleague Professor Stanilov are really Russophiles, the rest of them are mimicrating. Yesterday's behavior, Mr. Chairman, was just such a mimicry. I beg you very much, insinuate to your party comrades, are they gentlemen, I do not know how you treat you, that when an ambassador speaks and a journalist pushes with the microphone there, he makes a provocation not to the party, but to the ambassador and to the event that has been done. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u84	Perhaps, Mr. Chairman, in order for this to happen, it is your fault. You are guilty and Mr. Stanilov is guilty of your true Russophile because provocation against what happened on May 9th is provocation against people's memory. This is a wink to the other masters because of your behavior to say: not only do we treat Russia like this and go to Crimea, but we also undermine such a holiday as is 9 May, with the behaviour of our journalists. I very much hoped that this was only the behavior of the journalist, but I see that an action has been organised by the Ataka. Colleagues, remove the mimic, be real, because no one will respect you any more!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u85	Mr. Ermenkov, the dispute has expanded.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u86	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u87	Mrs. Alexandrova, we discussed this in the manner of conduct. This procedure is used to solve other issues. [[Reply by MP Miglena Alexandrova.]] I won't give you the opportunity to conduct yourself. Speaking yes. The group has a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u88	That's a statement, I can say what I want. I urge you to leave the National Assembly because yesterday you hit, hit a journalist and took his microphone. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because he asked the question: what kind of Russophiles are you, Mr. Ermenkov, given that your foreign minister, Vigenin, legitimizes the Ukrainian junta, which burned alive people, children, women? Because of this question, the journalist was beaten, hit, and his microphone was pulled, and he was even taken. So like some normal people, like other colleagues, just leave the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Kutev, very strongly Mr. Alexandrov wants the word in the manner of conduct. Let's hear it. The line is for you after that. Here you go. He has the word, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u90	Ms. Alexandrova, the line is to you with one question: what you say from the National Assembly's stand on the Ukrainian junta, you know it does not coincide with the foreign minister's opinion? The Foreign Minister has been elected by your majority. You're in charge now. The media that we talked about yesterday is actually the media of the government. You do know that the ruling majority is the one who pays that journalist to ask those questions? You are currently having problems with the Ukrainian junta, why are you jumping against the opposition and not against the minister you have appointed with your vote? [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]] Well, vote against him, ask him for his resignation, we'll back you up! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's go!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u91	That's Mr. Kutev's line. Is there a second line? I won't. Mrs. Alexandrova's hole to Mr. Kutev's line. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. The line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kutev, I'm talking about Vigenin. Vigenin is the man who legitimizes the Ukrainian junta. We're attacking, yes! We're in a coalition at the moment. We're in charge, but we're in attack, and we have our views, and we protect them, as you know. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, you do not pretend to be rusphiles, provided your foreign minister Vigenin legitimizes the Ukrainian junta. You don't have to go in there and be hypocritical. You don't need to! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. In the manner of holding Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you for the following reason. I believe that initially the colleague Alexandrova aimed to call you to invite the MPs to adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure and when certain MPs have a conflict of interest, it is announced not only in the speeches, but also in the votes a conflict of interest is announced. Mr. President, I bring you back to this: yes, you cannot initially know every Member of the National Assembly with what thoughts will appear here, what he will say from the stand, but you are obliged to urge absolutely everyone to observe the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, because otherwise all other explanations then to colleagues of a political party would be considered as justifications, which is therefore an excuse for an act of action. So, Mr President, once again, when, according to a Member of the National Assembly, a conflict of interest arises and calls on you to strictly comply with the Rules of Procedure, please do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. It seems to me that I have already fulfilled Mrs. Alexandrova's request and asked the MPs to comply without any other obligation due by law. In the manner of keeping the word there is Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, this was one of the few, at least until a moment ago, a debate that was going in a constructive, meaningful tone. It was a question of overpartying and aha-ha to unite around common goals, about something constructive for the benefit of society. While colleagues, with excuses, I seek the softest word, what they have done on this debate, but ugly words always come to me. Mr. Chairman, don't let that happen. We're just heading in the right direction. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. I will respect my role and the opportunities of today's meeting. Are there any speeches on debate to get back to the agenda and to the subject? Before I close the discussion of the Report, I invite Mrs. Vladimirova, she is in the Chamber, if she is willing to take an attitude. There is such an opportunity under the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any demands. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are closing the discussion and going to vote on a decision, which I will read to you about. May I have your attention, please? The Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly, will be introduced to the Draft Decision and its vote. Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Electronic Media Board for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 Please vote. We are voting on the draft decision I introduced you to. Vote 161 MPs: 82 against 34, abstention 45. The decision's been made. Revoting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u98	Mr. Chairman, I was summoned by a colleague of mine who just walked in. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u99	I will allow this, although I waited and specifically asked if there were difficulties, but the procedure requires it. Take your seats, please. I am re-voting the decision to adopt the report of the Council of Electronic Media. They voted 161 MPs: for 85, against 38, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC LORD EMIL CARANIKOLOV OF THE BASIC THING. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE SITUATION OF BUSINESS CLIMATE IN BULGARIA. The people's representative Daniela Saveklieva and a group of MPs are importing. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our country's economic performance is one of the direct evidence of the actions taken to ease the conditions for doing business. In the past 2017, Bulgaria's economy continued the trend of sustainable growth over the past few years and for the first time reached gross domestic product of 100 billion. lv. In percentage terms, the growth of the economy compared to 2016 is nearly 4%, which gives our country another order among the EU's leading member states for this indicator. These indicators, combined with the reduction of external debt, a low budget deficit of 1%, continued export growth, increased savings, also led to an increase in Bulgaria's credit rating by the two leading international credit agencies. None of these indicators would be possible if it was not for the responsible financial policy of GERB and the government of Boyko Borisov. Until recently, the opposition claimed that asphalt was not eaten, but today it is they who are the most active with their questions to the government about how and where to repair existing, how and where to build new roads and highways. It's not a short memory. No. They also simply realized that the basis for economic growth and prosperity of the regions includes good infrastructure. The other important issue, now for the opposition, are industrial zones. The advantages of the zones and the complex services offered by the National Company are not only for improving the business environment, but also for opening new jobs. Attracting new leading companies, some of which are also high-tech, enable very good realization. The IT sector is the fastest growing sector and Bulgaria offers well-prepared personnel, good economic environment to be preferred by leading IT companies. And no wonder our country will become the Silicon Valley of Europe. The Bulgarian IT industry is one of the fastest growing industries. Undoubtedly since the 1990s, the IT industry in Bulgaria has enjoyed consistent growth. At the moment, this market is also characterised as the least developed. Notice, in 2011, Bulgaria was the only Southeast European country to take a place as one of the most competitive countries according to the competitiveness index in the IT industry for 2011. About the administrative burden. Existing administrative regimes in recent years have emerged as a major burden for businesses and citizens. Thanks to the efforts of the ministries and parliament, we are making changes in over 50 laws and over 70 regulations that will allow for the official exchange of information and the electronicisation of services in order to break the vicious cycle of waste of time and resources, as well as the associated conditions for creating a corrupt environment. Dear Minister, it's been a year since the government. What I've just laid out involves only some of the factors that affect improving the business environment. Different agencies use different criteria for reporting the business environment in Bulgaria, but the most accurate barometer is the investor interest. We expect from you to hear what measures and actions the Ministry takes in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we listen to the Minister under the conditions of art. 113. Following the justification of the requests by one of the importers, the Minister of Economy has the floor within 10 minutes to make his statement. I would very much like everyone to take their seats and get to work so that we can hear the presentation of the minister's response. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, colleagues, take your seats. Mr. Nikolov, sit down, please, and stop talking. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you are. You can give us your opinion within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria! The growth of gross domestic product in 2017 puts us among the first 12 Member States of the European Union. Bulgaria surpasses the average growth of gross domestic product in the European Union by 1.2 points and reaches 3.6% and this favorable trend remains a third year in a row. We expect growth to continue to reach 4% in 2018. In April, the economic confidence indicator of the European Commission for Bulgaria registered a very strong growth to 111.7 points from 110.5 points in March, thus reaching a new post-crisis peak as high as 2008. In April 2018, the overall indicator of business climate, calculated by the National Statistical Institute, increased by 2.8 points compared to the previous month, with the growth of the indicator registered in all observed sectors In the business climate, industry is increasing to 0.7 points, due to optimistic expectations about the state of businesses over the next six months. At the same time, the forecasts of entrepreneurs for exports and production activity in the last three months are more favourable. In 2017, Bulgaria made record exports of goods worth more than 52 billion. lv. This is twice as much as 2007 and is the highest reporting value in the last 10 years. Exports continue to grow and for the period January "February" this year grew by 3%. Stable economic development and positive dynamics in the main macroeconomic indicators is the main factor for the noted remarkable successes in the labour market. According to EUROSTATE data, employment in Bulgaria increased by 3.6% in 2017 to 71.3%. Bulgaria is the country of the European Union, which marks the largest growth in the employment of individuals between 20 and 64 years last year. Uncovering jobs and creating employment in the economy have led to a reduction in unemployment, accelerating labour productivity growth, which according to EUROSTAT data has increased by 1.7% in 2017. We should also mark the increase in incomes in nominal and real terms by 11% last year. It is positive that much of the new jobs are generated in sectors with high added value, which is indeed joyful. Unemployment in Bulgaria hit a new nine-year low of 5.2%. This is the lowest unemployment rate in our country since November 2008, when it had a record of 5 percent. According to this indicator, our country ranks 11th in the European Union with the lowest unemployment rate. It is also important to note that, according to various comparable data for the last year, favourable business conditions have been created that have contributed to the opening of between 170 thousand and 230 thousand jobs. As you mentioned, several rating agencies last year increased Bulgaria's credit rating. I would like to highlight the efforts to reduce administrative burdens, which has been put as one of the main problems already at the First National Economic Council. In fact, two main problems have been raised: the administrative burdens and the problem of the workforce. Only in the Ministry of Economy have 113 administrative services been changed, which are related to relief, reduction and total dropping of fees and some of the regimes, reducing the number of documents and optimizing the time limits for the provision of these services. At the beginning of May this year, the Ministry of Economy launched a project "Technical support for the preparation of a tool for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises to implement regulatory regimes." The project aims to reduce the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. Last year, I am obliged to point out here with the help of the Ministry of Economy an Association of..................................... At the moment, it has prepared a legislative package, which is their proposal, and very soon we will submit it to the Economic Commission in order to alleviate the so-called "Starstep" procedures. At the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, a working group was established to review the administrative services provided by the Ministry of Economy and secondary officers with a budget to the Ministry of Economy and the aim is to reduce administrative burdens. As a result of reduced fees, a reduction of the direct financial administrative burden for business by about 200 thousand is expected. lv. on an annual basis. We also optimize the time limits for providing services, as I said, it saves time and costs. In order to meet the objectives set, the Ministry of Economy has envisaged changes in more than 20 regulations, which are currently under way, for which I thank the legislative authority for the rapid adoption of these legislative amendments, one part of which has already been implemented - for example the fees charged by the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology; the tariff on which the fees are collected by the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria; the Rules on the Implementation of the Investment Promotion Act; the pricing of services provided by the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the pricing of services provided by the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. All this has already been accepted. Investments. The most important for investors are macroeconomic and financial stability and predictability of the business environment. Bulgaria offers investment incentives, comparable to those of our main competitors in the region. Investments are already in real, real sectors that have high added value. Much better infrastructure in Bulgaria, as well as better cooperation between business and institutions create conditions for new quality of investment. We are reporting a trend of increasing investor interest, especially in production and high-tech services. Evidence of this is both the increasing number of projects certified under the Investment Promotion Act and the interest claimed by potential investors. Since the beginning of 2018, 10 certificates have been issued under the Investment Promotion Act, amounting to 600 million. lv. and a thousand new jobs are expected to be opened, with six of them in high-tech industries and services. At present, the Agency for Investment in the Process of Certification has more than 20 projects for nearly 400 million. BGN, with another 2000 jobs expected to be opened. As you know, we have had some delays in the last two months, we have adopted the Rules for amending the State Aid Act in relation to the European directives to be adopted, so in recent months we have not issued certificates. As of next week, this begins again. For one year the management of the current government from May 2017 to May 2018, under the Investment Promotion Act were issued a total of 32 certificates: 26 for Class A; five for Class B and one for a priority investment project. In total, the envisaged investments amount to 800 million. lv. and nearly 3,000 new jobs are expected to be opened. Fifteen of the projects are implemented in high-tech industries and services. Industrial zones. In recent years, we have increasingly found specific requests from investors to offer them terrains in regions where there will be no serious competition in demand for labour. More and more foreign and Bulgarian companies are aware of the problem with the footage. There are a small number of inquiries from companies with an interest in regions with high unemployment, where, on the one hand, there is free labour, on the other hand, the Bulgarian state gives additional incentive measures. The signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation with the Municipalities is part of the Strategy of the National Company Industrial Zones and the Ministry to develop industrial zones as a mechanism for promoting economic development and for supporting the development of the investment potential of the country. The goal is a joint work between the National Company, municipalities and regional governors. The current development model of industrial zones has not been successful. Therefore, a new concept was developed relating to the first construction of infrastructure in the zones and only after that to invite investors. The most important thing is for investors to come to industrial zones. Currently, the National Industrial Zones Company has signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the municipalities of Burgas, Bozhurishte, Vratsa, Sandanski, Kyustendil, Varna, Vidin, Dupnitsa, Stara Zagora, Gorna Oryahovitsa, as well as with the regional administration Kardzhali, I hope soon we will have with the mayor of Kardzhali. Last week we signed a Memorandum of Cooperation between Regional Administration Lovech and the state company. By signing these memorandums, municipalities are given the opportunity to promote and offer their land to investors. In a particular investor's interest... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll ask for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u103	I'll wait, Minister. I gave you a sign so you could navigate towards completion. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u104	Thank you. There will probably also be a question about foreign direct investment, you know, different references came out. Two months ago, they showed that in 2017 there was an increase in foreign investments by more than 35% compared to 2016. Three weeks ago it turned out to be about 5% less than 2016. We expect them really with interest. The flow of foreign investments shows operational financial transactions that take place to and outside Bulgaria, i.e. its results at a certain period. In this sense, even with a higher amount of foreign investment, a negative situation of the indicator can be observed, for example, when a foreign or local undertaking repays a credit granted from abroad or pays a dividend to the parent company and this changes the indicators. For the economic situation in Bulgaria indicator is the business climate survey conducted by the National Statistical Institute. The overall business climate indicator reported an increase in April 2018 by 2.8 points compared to the previous month, with growth being observed in all sectors of industry, construction, retail trade and services. Briefly on the operational program. From the beginning of the programming period until now, the total declared resource is approximately 1.853 billion. BGN, or about 74.6 of the general budget of the Operational Programme. We expect more than 3000 Bulgarian companies to benefit from the grant European assistance under the Programme by the end of the programming period. Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" continues to be one of the best performing programs in Bulgaria. I assure you that there is currently no risk of losing European funding under this programme. At the moment, we have concluded over 1,500 contracts. This is very briefly, if there are questions, I will provide additional information. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I apologize for the overdue time, but it was important to hear the Minister's information to the end. We are going to ask questions on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Within two minutes each of the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to ask questions to the Minister. Is there a question from the GERB group to Minister Karanikolov? Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to introduce us to the first question to Minister Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is quite encouraging the picture you have drawn us for economic development in view of the 4% growth we expect for 2018 and the 3% growth in exports that we have at this time. That's very encouraging. However, we all know that, given the more developed countries, we are a member state that has to constantly make efforts and be catching up. Therefore, our responsibility, especially your responsibility as a portfolio economic minister, must be categorically in this direction, at a much greater rate to develop our economy in order to be economically equal to other countries in a much shorter time. In my opinion, one of the main mechanisms and instruments is the absorption of European funds. This is a very serious mechanism to increase our competitiveness and develop our businesses. My specific question is: to give a little more details about the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" at this time and how do you see it by the end of the programming period? Eventually, how can we help to implement this program, given more information, perhaps from the administration? You have also affected the reduction of the administrative burden, which, in my opinion, is one of the main functions that we can focus on in order to have greater results. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the question, as I have no time left in the main exhibition, and this is extremely important. The economic policy of the Ministry of Economy is focused on innovation as a major factor for sustainable growth and increasing added value in the economy. From the beginning of the programming period until now, the total declared resource is approximately 1.853 billion. BGN, or about 74.6 of the general budget of the Operational Programme. As I mentioned, more than 1,500 contracts have been signed at the moment. By the end of the year, we will open procedures for nearly 400 million. lv. Soon, the long-awaited procedure will be opened - encouraging the entrepreneurship in sectoral areas related to European and regional challenges aimed primarily at start-ups. The main objective of the procedure is the creation and development of new enterprises in the sectors of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020 and specific sectors related to overcoming European and regional challenges. The planned budget under this procedure is 67 million. lv. According to the Indicative Annual Work Programme this year, a procedure is planned to improve production capacity and develop specialized services for small and medium-sized enterprises and the ICT sector, which has a budget of just over 150 million. lv.; development of innovation clusters with a budget of 29,9 million lv. It is expected to open in September, and at the end of the year I hope to open the procedure, and we will do our best to stimulate and implement innovation in enterprises with a total budget of over 107 million. lv. The operational programme was approved at the beginning of March 2015, with a value of 1.634 billion signed contracts as of 30 April 2018. BGN, or a total of 65,89% of the value of the funds currently implemented is 635 million. BGN, which has been paid. That's 25%. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and nearly 34% of the total value of the contracts concluded, it is important to indicate that over 300 million have been paid in one year. BGN, or more than 47% of the total payments to the beneficiaries of the programmes. It is important to note the transparency and restored dialogue recognised by employers and industry organisations, the non-governmental sector and other stakeholders. We also introduced an approach for a monthly report on the results achieved and planned activities through the monthly newsletter, which is sent to the MPs at the Economic Commission to the Forty-fourth National Assembly. As a significant success, it can also be noted that the change in the approach to regional prioritization of projects is extremely important. As a significant success, we can note the change in the approach to regional prioritization of projects, especially of start-ups based on the economic activity ratio at district level and not of planned regions. As an example, I will point out that Sofia-city district and Kyustendil district are in the same region, but their results are different. According to the new model, companies from underdeveloped areas will gain an advantage when applying under the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am using the interruption to make a remark to the MPs who are talking to each other so that they are interfering with the speaker. Please take your seats. Conversations outside the room. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u110	Dear Mr. President, due to the importance of the issues at hand, I propose a procedure for a direct hearing of the Minister of Economy of BNT 2 and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u111	I will put this proposal to the vote. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Let us first vote on this proposal and immediately thereafter I will give you the floor for a procedure. I put to the vote Mrs. Saveklieva's proposal for direct broadcast of the meeting on the Bulgarian National Television. Vote 108 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please make sure that the decision is implemented. Turn on the cameras. Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u112	Dear Mr. Notev, dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Notev, I turn to you: you made a remark after Minister Karanikolov ended with his reply, but all the time, all these three minutes when he was in charge, half the room was right, talking loudly, as if we were on holiday. Personally, I haven't been able to hear anything from the minister. My request is that when there is noise and disorder, because it was comparable to a disturbance in the room, to immediately remove these irregularities, and not to wait for the answer to end and make a remark, because there is virtually no point in the answer if there is no one to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. I share your assessment of the noise in the room. Perhaps I was wrong to postpone the remark about the end of the minister's exhibition, but I refer again to the MPs: I ask for silence in this House, we are indeed interfering with the speaker, we are also hindering those who would like to hear the information contained in the reply. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u114	Mr. Chairman, because of the proposal to broadcast this important debate on the National Radio and National Television, to invite representatives of the second largest party to attend the Chamber because they are not there, there are only 10 to 12 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u115	And the first one's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u116	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I don't think broadcasting is a circumstance which is why I should remind the MPs to respect their duties. We continue with a question to the Minister on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, let me start with a few quotes from the media that comment on the business climate in our country. I quote: The idea of the Ministry of Finance, which will lead to the mandatory replacement of half of the cash registers in the country and the adjustment of everyone else, will cost 120 million. lv. This money, instead of paying or investing in companies themselves, will have to go for new Elks with paper tape. The state is trying to criminalize business turnover. The prosecution will settle disputes between traders.. who is correct and who is in debt? Legal tax arbitrariness! How can a provision be used by the revenue administration for racketeering over correct companies? The price of the missing single entry point for the submission of annual financial statements is paid by businesses and citizens with huge lost public time and spending of funds. Finally, Bulgaria collapsed in the world ranking for good business climate. It is difficult to connect to the electricity grid in our country, as in Togo the taxes are low, but they are paid slowly. The conclusions that investors make from these publications on stability and predictability of the environment, I leave you to judge for yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Now get to the point. The gross domestic product in Bulgaria is really growing by 3.6% in 2017. Unfortunately, in the Eastern European region, however, these 3.6% rank us in the growth queue after Romania with far better 6.9%. The truth is that the Bulgarian economy is growing because its main driver is also performing well. It is worth noting that despite the growth of gross domestic product, convergence is slow and the structure is deteriorating and growth is moving more and more than consumption. At the same time, one part of the positive effect of higher consumption is consumed by foreign companies as imports increase faster than exports and therefore their net contribution to growth is negative. Recharged data shows that last year's trade balance is at a minus by nearly 2 billion. EUR, while in 2016, the deficit was around 984 million. Euros. For violent development, what we all want to see, obviously more external investment is needed. Without further speeding up investment, it is certain that the growth of the economy will get stuck at the current levels. One of the reasons for detention is lack of EU funds and public investment. The capital expenditure, for example, planned in the 2018 budget, has not been halved. The lack of sufficient external investment negatively affects Bulgaria as a country in which production capacity in the form of machinery and equipment is significantly outdated. Many countries of Central and Eastern Europe devote greater resources to attracting investors, and Bulgaria is really on autopilot, there is no active policy, and therefore the influx of foreign investments in the country is falling behind. As we have heard, in 2017, there are around 950 million. BGN, or about 130 million less than 2016 Regarding what is said, Minister, I would like to ask what specific measures the Bulgarian government takes to attract more foreign direct investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the question of the MP Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u119	First of all, I'd like to thank you for the question. It is extremely important and here a very active role, apart from the executive, must also take the legislative power. I'll start with what you started with: I assure you. I think that this is now both in business and in the National Economic Council, that if there is any thesis that is being created for business, the Ministry of Economy always supports business. This will happen now if it is imported. In a few days there will be a National Economic Council. If, as always, business actually points to these data, we will support it. There have been many cases of not quoting such laws on which the Ministry of Economy gave negative opinions precisely because of the difficulties being created not only for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for large businesses. I note that the business climate has improved by 2.8 points since the beginning of this year. What do we do to attract more investments? I mentioned the industrial areas. Here I am obliged to mention what we are doing, because, as I said in my first meeting with the business, he pointed out two problems - the administrative burdens and the problem with the workforce. What did the government do? Since last year we started amending the legislation on the law on the Ministry of Interior, the Migration Act in order to ensure a more relaxed procedure for issuing work visas. As investors are currently looking for a location where to eventually realize their investments in Bulgaria, their main question is: what is the workforce? Here, both the executive and legislative authorities are also actively working on this topic and we must continue in sync. I am talking not about what we have done so far, but about paying more attention to dual training, to dual training legislation, as the analyses show that this is the most flexible form of rapid transition and for providing the workforce. Re-qualification is a must to think about re-qualification. We're checking Hungarian experience right now. There the state gives from the budget serious money to the business itself to train employees who then undertake to stay in this workplace for 5 years. Not as George or Peter's name, but simply as a number will be preserved. We must work very actively with regard to retraining and dual learning, as the education system is not so flexible, it will not give us this flexibility. Another which is extremely important. We need to see our neighbouring countries. Of course, some of them are not in the European Union, but they even give free land to potential investors. This may be the time to think about something else. I'd say that's a hell of a problem. Okay, why don't we give out agricultural land, sell to start with Member States of the European Union, through the Investment Promotion Act, obtaining a certificate?! If, within the three-year period, they fail to fulfil those investments which they have undertaken as a commitment, the State, as it does now, has a mechanism to take this land. I mean, she can't take it, because breaking a real estate contract is always in court, but there's an agreement from the individual investor that if she doesn't fulfill her commitments to this land... Because Europeans will come, they will invest in agricultural land, but they will actually export this production because they have the markets, they have the distribution. We really need to think about these things. Once again, I assure you, we are currently examining the experience primarily. I say this directly, to the Czech Republic and Hungary, who are doing perfectly and yet are Member States of the European Union, because there are neighbouring countries that are not and have slightly different mechanisms that are acceptable, but all of this must be with your help. Of course, very soon we will submit the proposals and I hope that you will accept them, including for agricultural land. I think it'll be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Members, the time is 11.28. I will interrupt the rest of the meeting, as otherwise a question will be torn apart, which we are about to hear from a parliamentary group of... United Patriarchs...................................................................................... Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u121	Please prep the lists at 12:00 p.m. with a name check for presence in the plenary. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the secondary school parliament Ivan Momchilov from the town of Elena are visiting us. [[Applause.]] I think it was a signal that we had enough presence and we could start working. Who will ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u122	Dear Minister, there are many dams of municipal property in the country that are in tragic condition. The lack of funds of the municipalities to manage them carries the risk of serious consequences with material damage and even human sacrifices. In this sense, my question to you is: at what stage is the structuring of the state company that will manage the dams in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Before I give the floor for a reply to Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure I propose to include it in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item: First vote of the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. People's representatives Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Gergana Stefanova and Hamid Hamid are importing, suggesting that this be the first point for Friday, 11 May 2018. Please, voting mode. Vote 110 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 12. The offer is accepted. Dear colleagues, the Eastern balcony of the plenary hall are students from the secondary school of Dimitar Blagoev.Svishtov, students from the 40th school of Louis Pastor.Sofia, and from the 96th school of Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy. Let's welcome them. Welcome! [[Applause.]] Thank you. Dear Minister, please respond to the question from the representatives of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking. Currently, the state operates dams of national importance. The national electricity company is responsible for those watersheds whose controlled drains produce electricity, State irrigation systems track some of the smaller water tanks, but most of the facilities are owned by the municipalities or are leased to private companies and no care is taken of them, unfortunately. The changes to be discussed in the competition committees, as the bill has already been introduced to the National Assembly, is to create a state enterprise - not a commercial company - but a state enterprise - to implement the complex management of dams - public state property, including the maintenance of dams and facilities to them. The idea is that at present the State Agency of Metrology and Technical Supervision controls the state of the dams, but what is the effect? The positive thing is that we already know the number of dams we have a register, so far we didn't have it, but from now on, what colleagues do, because that is the law, is to issue penal decrees usually against mayors of municipalities. That doesn't solve the problem. Municipalities do not have the money to manage and maintain this asset the dams, and this precious resource the water. From this point of view, the government has decided to create a mechanism which, once again, I say, is already a bill under which municipalities which do not have the opportunity to manage the dams or generate any profits because there are dams that are very well maintained by municipalities to be transferred into the ownership of the Bulgarian state and the state to be responsible for the management of these dams. And not now, as they say: the wall is on two of the district governor, the sanitary area is of the municipality, the water and inside the fish is of the concessionaire or tenant. The idea is really to create a company responsible for prevention and to be responsible for the condition of the dams. 5700 dams are currently established in our country, with 20 percent of them privately owned. In the Law we also foresee two very important things: the first is to arrange the notions of a large dam and a small dam, which currently does not exist; the second is to give qualification to dams of danger according to their condition will be determined and the interval of time during which checks will be carried out. How dangerous are the waters, will be determined by a commission appointed by the district governors and the criteria for the classification by another commission with representatives of some ministries and scientists appointed by the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will give short information as a result of the checks carried out by the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision: the dams of state ownership are currently 340 units, municipal property. 4523 units, private property. 260 units, mixed ownership. 17 units, unexplained ownership.. 153 dams in Bulgaria are of unexplained ownership........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In relation to the unexplained property, and I conclude with this, the district managers of the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, who have legally obligations for their safe operation, respectively, to draw up State-owned acts for the terrains and to be transferred back to that state-owned enterprise. Since there is a problem with the transfer of ownership, because there must be a decision of a mayor, then of the municipal council, documents must be extracted, because for many of the dams there is no documents, there will currently be an existing state company to the Ministry of Economy, which will deal with the emergency repairs of these dams in order to avoid immediate danger to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, don't worry, I won't ask you about the airport in Kardzhali. My first question to you is: according to the National Development Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, one of the main objectives of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, which are embedded in the activity is to promote entrepreneurial spirit among young people and students, increase the competitiveness of small businesses by improving their access to finance and simplifying administrative and regulatory requirements, especially for small and micro-enterprises. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: in relation to this concept of conducting an SME test, how many and what sub-normative acts have been prepared by the Ministry of Economy, have the possible impacts on small and medium-sized enterprises of changing these regulations been examined, and what measures have been taken to reduce the adverse effects of the implementation of these administrative changes? Can you also indicate the number of enterprises that have been affected by the introduction of a new regulation or by changing an existing one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks again for the question. It's not for the airport in Kardzhali, I was ready there, but thank you. I think it's even more important! As I mentioned in the exhibition, at the beginning of this month the Ministry of Economy started Project "Technical support for the preparation of tools for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises to implement regulatory regimes." This will be the answer to your request, but here I am obliged to say something extremely important: years ago, the relationship between the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises themselves has been broken. How's the connection broken? The link is broken by removing the regional centers of the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in all regions of Bulgaria. There was such a question even by BSP colleagues and appropriate follow-up. So what we're going to do is because the finding is as follows: there are only six such regional units left. Where there are such regional units, there is a very good dialogue and, notice, a very good absorption of European funds. Our goal and what we are doing is: in all the regional centres to return the offices of the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in order to have communication and feedback from the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves, something that has worked well. I do not know why it was removed as a mechanism, but I assure you that very soon we will restore it in order to have this hearing, and not as I was told in Kardzhali: Mr. Minister, you in Sofia are only acquiring some invoices.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u129	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u130	Business.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of Volja.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as you know, the problem with the lack of labour in Bulgaria is quite large. This is becoming an increasingly disturbing factor for a huge part of the business. About 40% of the companies in Bulgaria report the lack of labour, which prevents them from developing their business. Another factor that contributes to this lack of labour is the large migration of the population outside the country. My question to you is this: what measures does the Ministry of Economy take to address the problem of lack of qualified and unqualified labour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, that is the question that business raises. I'll start again with this: what have we done and what else should we do? As you know, I have already mentioned it, last year we amended the legislation on the provision of working visas quite seriously, we eased the time limits and procedures for granting these working visas. On 18 May there will be a meeting of the National Economic Council so that we can hear from the business what the first problems are, because there is really already this mechanism. We have actually secured and the government has approved interstate agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Armenia for importing personnel. Here I can say that a few weeks ago Armenia approved this agreement and there are already requests for business, but we need to see. One of the problems that I have been unofficially told about the business is that only in large regional centres can make these requests. It's a waste of time and expenses for them. We will probably have to create some mechanism to submit these requests to the very places where business is developing. The other thing we did at the beginning of this year, which is extremely important, is to ease the blue card procedure. This is for highly qualified employees in certain sectors. Maybe this is where we should think about adding a section. The other which is extremely important is dual training and requalification. In dual training, I think that a serious campaign should be started for parents, not for students, they still depend on their parents. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria it has been a long time that in production the work is dirty, heavy, ungrateful. That's not true anymore. In production are places where there is real income, where you learn to work habits. That is why perhaps the legislative and executive authorities should do such campaigns and explain so that we can develop our students, give them the opportunity to learn what new businesses are, not that there is dirty work. The other, which is very important, we currently have a workforce, but the fourth industrial revolution every day surprises us. We need to set up centres to re-qualify the workers at the moment to meet digitalization and all that. We are working with colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on this very topic to create synergies. The new plan that we have now for industrial zones is not only to create infrastructure, but in the industrial area itself to create educational centers where dual training and re-qualification of the investors themselves who come and not in a region, for example, to have investors in charge of medicine, and we to develop something quite different. This isn't right. There's a road map of the Ministry of Education, we'll be on it and we'll be on it with the operational programs. The idea is science when it develops a product, when it becomes at a stage to offer it to the business, then it will participate respectively under the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness" to develop it. We are also creating a special fund at the Bulgarian Development Bank, which will be able to finance this product. The most important thing to do. We've done a lot of things, and now to hear the business, what his first setbacks are, to continue to work and invest in our children because they are the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second round of questions from the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you often announce that business forums are a prerequisite for developing bilateral trade and economic relations. Can you tell us how many of these you have realized so far as a minister and how many of these are expected to happen by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihowski. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u138	Thanks for asking. I'll start by saying that we don't always organize. As a matter of fact, over the past year, we have noticed an interest in foreigners to organise such forums. They want to come to Bulgaria or the Bulgarian business to go to the country in question to hear what is happening because they notice what I started with to improve the business climate, increase the credit rating. These are extremely important signals for business. An extremely important signal for business is the anti-corruption law that you passed. Very important for business is the Law on concessions, which also includes public-private partnership, because so far the law that has been acting has not worked well, so to say in general. First of all, I apologize if I miss a business forum, but there were a lot of them, and they keep going. In short, there were three business forums with Poland, with the Czech Republic, Romania, Russia, Hungary, Iran, Cuba, Belarus, Turkey, Malta, Serbia, Saudi Arabia, India, South Korea and Israel, which soon ended. Upcoming forums will be available. We agreed to have a business and cultural forum in Sofia with the Turkish state and Turkish business by the end of this year, although there was one, but it was there, and now there will be one here. For next year, we plan to have one in Bursa. Business forums with Serbia, Kosovo, Macedonia are due this year, Luxembourg, Austria, Italy, Spain, Romania, the Netherlands. Ukraine and I have one of those intergovernmental committees, which will also have a business forum. On Saturday, we leave with a serious business delegation to Iran. There will also be a business forum. We're waiting with Japan. Perhaps this is how I see it personally, the peak will be July. The forum will be 16+1. The forum is at a very serious level and will be in Bulgaria. I think we should take this chance, as at the moment, there is no serious investment from China. I pay attention, at the expense of several of our neighbouring countries, China has decided this year, in connection with the European Presidency, the forum will be in Bulgaria and this may indeed be the peak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Probably the hearing of the Minister of Economy on the state of the business climate in Bulgaria was triggered by the ruling majority in order to show that great efforts are being made to improve the business environment and that the business climate in Bulgaria has become better. Surely so, but the pace of this progress is so anaemic and insufficient, even for catching up with the Eastern European countries. There is no way to convince any investor that you have already eliminated corruption, that you have overcome the lack of skilled labour and other institutional deficiencies. There is probably an improvement, but it is a result of great luck, of favorable random and external factors, such as the emerging good perspective during the Eurozone, which, without depending on us, is pulling us very economically forward. Mr. Minister, if you had said that the business climate was improving, but we are developing below the opportunities and far below what is necessary to make Bulgaria in the near future very attractive to the business and a good place to live, I would agree with you and would not have to answer questions such as: did the barriers to investors decrease? I would not say yes because there is a slow progress in public administration reform, including e-government, which is an obstacle to the quality of public services. In the field of public procurement, is administrative capacity increased? I wouldn't say yes, because this capacity remains as weak as ever. Electronic procurement has not yet been fully implemented and the potential of centralised procurement remains unused. Is there progress in the fight against corruption, which is among the main factors that affect the business environment? I wouldn't say yes, because it's not generally attributed to this department. There is no prevention, no effective investigation and prosecution of high-level corruption. An arrested mayor of a capital district, a political adversary, convinces us of the effectiveness of this government's anti-corruption actions! According to data from the International Monetary Fund for 2017, Bulgaria is number one by share of the gray economy from 31 countries surveyed in Europe, even before Turkey and Romania. The high level of the hidden economy undermines the country's economic development and requires serious political attention because we are far from the European average levels. In the context of the hearing, the question is: how do you assess the level of the grey economy in Bulgaria; do you consider it a factor for the deterioration of the business environment in Bulgaria; what initiatives, including legislative ones, has this government taken in its one-year management to reduce the share of the gray economy and what are the future actions you will take to curb this gray economy?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u142	Thank you for your question. My own opinion: we should all make efforts to increase Bulgaria's economic performance. We shouldn't split up here. Directly in terms of gray economy and smuggling. You know that there is a strategy adopted by the Ministry of Finance that is not much in the portfolio of the Minister of Finance, but last year there was a problem with fuel. The regulation has been amended, appropriate action has been taken. Now, as far as I know, there's a fuel bill in parliament, generally speaking. If you ask me a question, I will tell you that such a law should exist, but it should not be at the expense of small and medium business. This is very important. At all the meetings my business is asking about the grey economy, I ask them for one thing: give me concrete facts to take action. As a matter of fact, until now, I have no specific information about someone who works in the gray economy. Here I ask: what do we do now?! Business has to give us this information and then ask for a solution from us. This is extremely important. If you have information, let us fight, but this cannot happen only with the executive power. Here you are and you are the legislature, and so it should be. Therefore, an appeal from this tribune: who has signals of such smuggling, a gray economy and any other action, let him give them, but not just to assert them without specific examples. We all have to fight corruption because the cliché is an octopus, it does not help us, we need to start and receive specific signals. Here, I say, in the Ministry of Economy three companies came and reported an employee in the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness" who, to say it, since I am not still a court, has taken some strange actions. Of these three companies, only one company has decided to make this signal official. After the transmission, the person was arrested by the relevant authorities. That's how it works, but you have to get specific signals. If we have them, we'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group "United Patriarchs." You have the floor, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we all know how important it is for the development of the economy and for good economic growth the development of industrial zones. My question will be related to the development of the National Company Industrial Zones and, more precisely, to the development of the Economic Zone. Is the expansion of the economic zone over? How's the infrastructure building going? Is the declared transport line between the economic zone and the capital working normally? How many investors are attracted to the economic zone and what is the share of them to foreign investors? What investments do you expect to be made, and therefore what jobs will be revealed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u146	Thanks for asking. In fact, a year ago we found the Industrial Zone without electricity. You all know that. We've taken appropriate action. You know that there is currently electricity being built there for the defined percentage of investors who are here. Get to the point. Building an industrial zone is an important tool of the government to implement the strategy for attracting investment. Until now, over 20 investors from the automotive industry, high technology, warehouses and logistics sectors have been attracted to the Economic Zone. According to the contracts signed so far, the investment projects in the area will exceed 350 million. lv. In the area have already really built their sites and work five companies - the German company Ber-Hella, Klammad, Azom, Volcom, Neona, and another German company will also start operating at the same time - Multivak, which has almost built its factory in Bozhurishte. By the end of 2018 we expect the base of the largest investor in the area at the moment.. in Bozhurishte. This is JYSK, which is located on the ground with an area of 300 acres. Seven more companies start building their sites and some of them are expected to be built by 2018. At the same time, one of the companies starts and already expands its existing plant. The interest in the Industrial Zone is growing and negotiations are being held with more than 15 companies that currently want to invest. This could be the pearl right now. Just a brief piece of information about the infrastructure. Since we have found in the Industrial Zone, there will be only once, there will be a large logistics base, a very serious one of JYSK's, and this time there will be no exit of the road. We are currently working on an opportunity to expand Blvd. The Queen of Ioanna, who will enter there so that we can provide another approach. We also work in the other part of the area to ensure another approach, as this is important for investors. The electricity already mentioned it. We are also working on drinking water, as we will soon have this problem, and we are already working on it. Routes have already been introduced into the Industrial Zone, because soon workers, if they did not have a car, could not get there. We also work for the Metro to Obelia, and then there's a train leaving, so there's a train stop, so we can provide the workers. In general, for the Industrial Zone, Bozhurishte is extremely interested. Given that it's near Sofia, there's serious labor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, again, you. Here you go, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In the election program of the government, of which you are part, you declare efforts to attract foreign investment. However, the statistics from BNB are quite sad, especially for January and February 2018, where the decline on an annual basis is 42%. It is clear that the business climate depends not only on the Ministry of Economy, but rather on good interaction in the Council of Ministers. According to the World Bank's Doing Business ranking, Bulgaria is again in 50th place, shown by this chart, and here the trend is falling again. There's no movement. In the economy, it's not really stability, it's inertial failure, because even if you stay in one place, the environment is moving forward. In this case, my question is: what measures has the Ministry of Economy proposed as leading the Council of Ministers on the most problematic moments in the investment environment? Is there a state policy in the area and, if so, who is responsible for the implementation of the Minister, Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u150	Thanks for asking. I assure you, in the Council of Ministers, we have an extremely good dialogue. In the exhibition I made at the beginning, I explicitly stated that these data were preliminary. Yes, at one point they were extremely good, positive, we talked about them, a few weeks later they fell back in comparison with 2016. I explained that this was the case and this is distorting the picture for loans that come back, loans, dividends that are paid to the parent companies. The Ministry of Economy is what answers, but absolutely all colleagues help. What we do with industrial zones, the new vision for development, is precisely to build infrastructure, not to invite investors to beautiful meadows, really beautiful, but a lot of investments must be made. What we do for education to provide labour, what we do for administrative burdens, I'm not saying it's enough, but we keep working and we know it, we know it. As a matter of fact, I recently had a meeting with the European Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and we talked about Estonia, where e-government is an undeniable phenomenon for the European Union. And they -- they said there's bureaucracy there, and the companies are complaining there. That is, we have a lot of work, a lot of dialogue, but by asking me the question who answers the Ministry of Economy, the government answers, but the legislative authority also answers because you have a legislative initiative as well. You know, we work at the Economic Commission, for which I thank absolutely everyone, in fact I work with everyone extremely well. I just told you about the starters. The Association itself has prepared a package of measures that will be presented to you for discussion. Very soon I will bring you the additional incentive measures, notice I will bring them first to the Economic Commission to discuss them with you. Where we have consensus on all the topics, let's solve them and let them go to become laws. We are also researching the experience of colleagues who are doing best at the moment. If you have any other ideas, I'm always available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. From the parliamentary group of the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is a known fact that our rights as consumers are governed by the Consumer Protection Act. We buy goods daily for personal use such as food, clothing, home goods, services, computer and electronic equipment. A large part of these goods, according to statistics around a third, we shop over the Internet. However, what rights do we have when buying a commodity that does not meet our expectations, our requirements and needs? The European market is an area without borders where the free movement of goods and services is ensured. However, we must pay serious attention to our internal market. Consumers must be provided with added value, good quality, also wide variety, reasonable prices and high standards. Safety for goods and services as well. The construction and preservation of consumer confidence for us by Voljya is a priority. On this occasion, my question to you is: how do the Ministry of Economy, as an institution, together with the Commission for Consumer Protection, take care of the interest of Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u153	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would really like to thank you for the question, because the Ministry of Economy, besides being responsible for business, is also responsible for consumers. Sometimes the balance is complicated, but it is our responsibility, because ultimately each of us is a consumer. As a minister responsible for conducting the horizontal consumer protection policy, I am familiar with the main and specific problems of consumers. Here, however, I would like to unfold the subject a bit, because, as chairmen, we have put forward the topic of consumer protection and of the Council, you know, very soon there has been such a discussion. Here I would like to congratulate the European Commission, which published a new legislative package on 11 April, which is aimed at protecting consumers, and we, as chairmen of this Council, really want to protect those interests. But specifically, you know, some time ago I found that there was a National Consumer Council in the Ministry of Economy that is currently not working. And probably ahead of your question, three weeks ago, I restored this body to the National Consumer Council, and I hope that at the beginning of June we will have a first meeting and hear the main problem of consumers. At the first meeting we had unofficially, they posed the problem of heating. I guess that's where we're gonna start working. I assure you the subject is not closed to the Ministry of Economy. Users are extremely important to us and that is why we are restoring this National Consumer Council. Representatives of the Economic Commission, as I work most with it and with you respectively, will be invited to participate in the meetings and to hear the problems of consumers. And I also hope that we are looking for effective solutions to their problems, because, once again, I say, no matter who is what, where we are, we are all users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u155	Thank you, dear Minister. With this, we have exhausted the opportunities for asking questions to the Minister of Economy. We are moving on to the expression of attitude on behalf of the parliamentary groups. From the parliamentary group of GERB? From the BSP parliamentary group? Here you are, you have the floor, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u156	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the data that was exported by colleague Karanikolov is accurate. We can not disagree that in the Bulgarian economy, of course, there are positive changes, there is a chance. But in my summary, I would like to pay attention and recommend some things to the government, as the devil is in the details. The conclusion, I will start with it, is that Bulgaria and this government, which is ours, a Bulgarian government, is not doing enough to reduce the difference with the average indicators of the European Union and especially with the countries that are less developed in it, because we are unfortunately at the last place. Dear colleagues, there is no dispute between economists that ultimately the key indicator of the state of a country is its ability to maintain dynamics of economic growth and its effective structure. Yes, indeed in Bulgaria, economic growth is 3.6%, according to yesterday's report of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with a forecast of a slight decline of 3.4% in 2018. This at first glance looks good, however, honourable Members, let's see where the other countries that are more developed than us are! Hungary..4.3% growth, Czech Republic.4.5% growth in 2017, 4.2% growth in 2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Poland "4.6%." Romania, which is the last and we are the last 6.7%. As we move by 3.6% and Romania by 4.6%, what happens? The difference between Bulgaria and Romania is growing. These are estimates of Eurostat and of the European Bank. Only Slovakia has economic growth that is close to Bulgaria. Conclusion: Bulgaria's economic growth is extremely insufficient and at the end of the term, if we do not take extraordinary measures the Bulgarians will be even more last, as other peoples move faster. There's nothing more to discuss here. In order to make up for this difference, investments are required. There is also no discussion between economists How things stand with the share of foreign direct investment in gross domestic product. According to BNB data, there is, by the way, a discussion on more relevant data from the BNB, how much money there is on the account is not anywhere in the world. There is a small difference between NSI and other statistical agencies around the world, but the data from the Bank is always the most relevant. So, honourable Members, 1.8% of the gross domestic product is our foreign direct investment - 1.8% - less than 2%. How is it in the other countries? the Czech Republic? 3,3%, Estonia? 3,2%, Poland? 3,6%, Romania? 2.9%?? 3-40% more than us. Unfortunately for Serbia, which has gone through wars, is not in the European Union, do you know what the number is -- 6%. More than three times higher than Bulgaria! Albania's 8.8%! In other words, the sad conclusion is that we are not only behind all other countries, former countries, and Romania, but we are worse than Albania and Serbia on this indicator. The average indicator for Central and Eastern Europe is 8.2% of gross domestic product according to data from the European Development Bank. Moreover, the problem is that foreign investment reinvests in Bulgaria are lower than in other countries. For example, 190 million investments in shares, in euros, in 2017, and were 633 million in 2016. That is, three or four times less. The investments in 2017 were 230 million in Bulgaria and in 2016 it was 341 million. In other words, reinvestments decreased again according to Eurostat and BNB data. Furthermore, it is an interest in what is happening as a set of internal and external investments. You don't have to be an economist to see where the economy is moving. In Bulgaria, this share, I quote, is Eurostat's data, is 22.6% of gross domestic product, almost 23%. How other countries move in investment to see what will happen to their economies: Czech Republic 26,8; Estonia [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, the assessment of foreign investors not ours is that Bulgaria is the weakest link in the European Union and they invest at least ten times less than 2007. Internal and external investments taken together go down against other countries. Therefore, honourable Members, it is good to highlight the advantages. If I were you, I would still include the problems and the solution to these problems. The conclusion is, honourable colleagues of the government, you decide what to do, you are chosen. Sit down the key ministers and make an investment programme through a public-private partnership, because these data from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the IBRD and Eurostat show that we may be moving properly with positive amounts, but this movement is so slow that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u157	I'm interrupting now, thank you. It's been a whole minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u158	I'm graduating, one more sentence. ...at the end of the term, if we continue this way, colleagues, you will see a greater difference with Romania and other countries, which I, as a Bulgarian, do not want to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u159	Thank you, Professor Gechev. The United Patriarchs?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Statistics are a wonderful thing, it shows us how we walk, but it cannot embrace absolutely all parts of the... it is not a coincidence that statistics are part of the economy. The economy is far more complex. The economy allows us and is that thing that will allow us in the future to continue to increase the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, as this GERB government and the United Patriarchs did, and it has written that it will continue to do from here on out. The economy is all of us and we must perceive it exactly as such as active participants, and to correctly rely on what we asked as questions, the Minister's answers and the Minister's speech at the beginning. The minister started by not for a reason that we are developing our economic zones, as they are an essential prerequisite for this statistics, which Professor Gechev read, to be changed. It is no coincidence that the government between GERB and the United Member States has undertaken a strategy for development and promotion of industrial zones development, development of all indicators that are in the business environment, reduction of administrative burdens, development of capacity in terms of staff. These are some of the things that cannot be covered by statistics, but can be covered and be, and should be stressed, the efforts of the team of the Ministry of Economy, as well as the efforts of this government, we should bring and bring our entire society to a better well-being and a better well-being. It's part of what we've taken over and we've started to rule with our colleagues. This is also the part where the opposition must very closely follow us and, as they say, push us. In a stable opposition, there is stable governance. This stable opposition, of course, cannot deny what has been done so far, cannot cancel out what we are doing at the moment, cannot erase one billion given for an increase in income. We cannot say that the Ministry of Economy does not take steps in the development of industrial zones, does not take steps in stabilizing the economy and increasing the growth of the economy. Yes, 3.6% is a great prerequisite that we continue to develop and I think that the Minister of Economy will agree with me that its objectives are that this percentage is far above 3.6, perhaps far above 6%. I, as far as I know him professionally, am convinced and convinced by my colleagues from GERB that we will not have a day until we reach and move this wheel of the economy much more significant than what has been done so far. Understand that the state of the economy is not a phenomenon, it is a process. This process has to take into account, as well as the past that we have found, as well as a distant past, because the so-called lag in the economy or the slowdown in the economy, has a 10-year-old pace and, of course, we are, roughly speaking: to squirm the steam of what was laid in the beginning of 2000 and now to see a reflection of some of the things at the time. For a task we have set ourselves, naturally, to significantly change these parameters and work with colleagues in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u161	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Don't listen to the opposition, they're capable of white saying black. They've done it many times! Many times! Today's speech was just that: to call the white black. Because what are the facts? I don't understand how it can, with the highest economic growth in Central and Eastern Europe, get out of this tribune and say that things are a tragedy?! It's not a tragedy, guys. Four whole and three percent is projected for economic growth this year and next year. Four and three percent in analysis of some of the international banks, which are authorities in this area, is the highest expected economic growth for the whole of Central and Eastern Europe. Bulgaria is first with this projected economic growth of 4.3% for this year and next year. This can be read in the news and I'm sure my colleague has read it. He's read it and he knows it, he's seen the prediction, I'm not gonna say the bank so I don't advertise it here, but he saw the predictions that it's expected for this year and next year to have the highest, I repeat, and I ask you all to listen to me: the highest economic growth in Central and Eastern Europe!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u163	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u164	The other criterion for the development of the economy is the level of unemployment. The unemployment rate is the lowest in decades! The lowest unemployment rate in decades! Unemployment is close to the natural unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u165	That's not true! There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u166	You know, there's one percent below which you can't get down 4.5 percent is a natural rate of unemployment below which you can't get down. Four or five percent unemployment means that unemployment is really not, and this is also confirmed by the opinions of all employers' organizations. We see, for months, employers' organizations have said: no labour, give us labor. The situation in Bulgaria is not at all what the opposition presents it, but I understand that it is their job to present things as very bad. However, unfortunately, the statistics thus refute all their claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u167	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u168	By saying this, I want to congratulate the government and at the same time, as a personal position, to tell them that these good, not good, these excellent indicators for the development of the economy in the country should not calm them, quite the opposite, they should see with this high economic growth where the additional reserves for even higher economic growth are. And here I will again open a clamp, all by talking now and in the past, especially old people, saying: When will we reach Europe and in 100 years we cannot reach it?It is not 100 years old and there is such research and shows that in twenty-several years the Bulgarian income will catch up with the average European income, that is, even for this we can think about at the moment, and with higher economic growth we can reach them not in twenty-several years, but rather. Colleague Alexandrov very rightly mentioned, the base from which we started, it is easy to grow if you are at the average level in the European Union, but if your base is the last in the European Union to catch up with the average, given that those who are in the middle of the European Union, even though they are not standing in one place, is a challenge to every government. The government, according to all indicators of the economy, is dealing with the growth of the economy perfectly. Again, if you'll allow me a few references on my behalf, I suppose my colleagues will agree with me. In Bulgaria, about 100,000 people die or die from natural causes each year. Bulgaria melts, dies annually, dies 100,000 people, at the same time 50 thousand people are born. This means a very simple account that Bulgaria melts with 50 thousand people every year. This is a problem for the economy, because we cannot have minus 50,000 people at workable age each year less, and at the same time expect some great economic growth. In this regard, I think we should think of a policy to satisfy the desire of employers' organisations and to make it easier for us to attract labour from other countries as much as possible. Here I refer specifically to the Bessarab Bulgarians, who are a very large group, who have a great desire to come and work in Bulgaria, but we do not create the necessary prerequisites for them. Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov has done a lot in this direction. In my opinion, however, this is not enough, unfortunately, and there is still much to be done to make up for these people who are missing each year. My second very quick recommendation is that we cannot have high economic growth if we do not have a well-developed capital market. In the Ministry of Economy you have a program to finance through [[the President signals that time has run out]] IPO's operational program. It is good to think of large primary, public offers in still state-owned companies to raise additional capital [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and must continue the efforts towards administrative burden. I have heard your report that the Ministry has reduced 150 or 250 regimes or has been removed and so on, but the idea of the administrative burden or the reform of the administrative burden is not to require any documents from the business or citizens who issue them another administration... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, just one more sentence. Thank you for your tolerance. We need to get there so no such documents are required. Today, for an experiment, I entered into some guidelines for applying for an operational programme and I saw that at the first stage of application these documents are not required, but before the conclusion of the contract, you still have to bring them to the clerks in the administration the paper copy, which I think is incorrect, is not the purpose of administrative reform. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u169	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No. From Volya? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We've just heard Mr. Dobrev's eulogy to the economy. On the one hand, we can express the approval of the Ministry's policy that 60% of the investments for high technology are being allocated, but compared to other countries, such as Japan, which allocate 14% of the gross domestic product, to develop and implement innovation; such as Germany, which separates 8% of the gross domestic product, we believe this is too little; Bulgaria accounts for about 1%. From what Mr. Dobrev said, we have heard that it is almost 20 years from now that we will catch up with Europe and we will pass it on medium European income, with the logic that we have no unemployment, and we have practically a shortage of labour. How will this happen, I would like to ask, provided that the lack of unemployment is rather than that the young people left Bulgaria and there is no one to work and we are looking for workers from abroad? What is the real prospect of our growth in the economy, given that in 20 years we will have a huge advantage of pensioners and people at an inoperable age in reality?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u171	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u172	I can't imagine how in this demographic collapse we'll catch up with Europe in 20 years?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u173	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. This concludes the hearing of the Minister of Economy. [[Mister Emil Karanikolov wants the floor.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to thank you. Personally, we all say the same thing about me, yes, we point out the good things, yes, and there are many things that are not positive, and that is a fact. Professor Gechev, you mentioned several countries. I explicitly said in the exhibitions before that that we are studying their experience because we are interested.... why there, why there, why there? Unfortunately, one of the answers that we cannot change is that investors want to guarantee, everyone wants exports, but all those countries that we mentioned have a much bigger internal market and that to some extent attracts the investor because it guarantees them the market inside. Our market is small, but we will nevertheless propose such additional measures that they are doing both in the Czech Republic and Hungary, and you mentioned that they are doing quite well. With regard to innovation programmes for the public-private partnership, I am for the public-private partnership, but let's tell each other the truth. From 1 January 2018, we have a law regulating public-private partnership, concessions and public-private partnership. Mr. Kirilov knows how heavy the matter is. It won't be easy. But what does this law say: "In three months a regulation is adopted, within six months it is adopted... " I agree with a public-private partnership, and that's what investors want from us. But we can start now. So far there has been one law since 2010 or 2012, and there has not been a single project under the public-private partnership. So thank you all. I'm sure we have a lot of catching up to do together, and we'll work really hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u175	Thank you and I, Dear Minister, for participating today. Good luck to you. Dear colleagues, before we proceed with the next bill, there is one announcement. Today, on 10 May 2018, it was received and will be distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, adopted on the first vote on 3 May 2018. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Environment and Water on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. Mr. Kirilov, will you present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, before I begin the presentation of the report for the second reading of the Civil Procedure Code, I request permission in the hall of Mrs. Biljana Beljakova, Director of the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u177	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Belyakova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 802-01-8, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2018, adopted on the first vote on 28 March 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u179	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 74, none, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u180	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of cases for the award of the original part of a claim subject to a case in an already pending claim.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u181	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission to create a new § 1. Vote 88 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u182	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 432, p. 5
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u183	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission to create a new § 2. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u184	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The cash claims against state-owned entities shall be paid by the funds allocated to their budget. For this purpose, the executive list shall be submitted to the financial body of the institution concerned. If there are no such funds, the relevant senior head of the budget shall take the necessary measures to provide for at the latest in the next budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission to create a new § 3. They voted 100 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u186	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 520 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty. 2. In para. 2 Finally, the related national co-financing is added, as well as the funds from advance funding, when they are provided at the expense of the state budget, including through accounts for the European Union funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u187	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission to create a new § 4. Vote 95 MPs: 80, none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u188	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. Before art. 624 a name is created: "Chapter fifty-spoken "Producing and implementing on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure (OJ L 199/1 of 31 July 2007.). Implementation on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 805/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on the introduction of a European enforceable ground in the event of undisputed claims
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u189	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 5 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u190	According to § 1 of the Report, an importer text, a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 624 is amended as Production under Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure Art. 624 (1) The application for proceedings under the European Small Claims Procedure shall be submitted to the Regional Court at the permanent address of the defendant or at his or her registered office. (2) The appeal against a decision on European proceedings for actions with little material interest shall be brought before the relevant district court. (3) The decision of the district court under para. 2 shall be subject to a cassation appeal before the Supreme Court of Cassation under the conditions of art. 280. (4) The defendant may submit to the relevant Court of Appeal an application for a review of the decision given under the European Small Claims Procedure under the terms and conditions of art. 18 of Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure, as amended by Regulation (EU) 2015/2421 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 amending Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure and Regulation (EC) No 1896/2006 establishing a European Payment Order procedure (OB, L 341/1 of 24 December 2015).). (5) The Court shall send a copy of the request for review to the other Party, which, within one week of receipt of the request, may submit an answer. (6) The request for review shall be dealt with in a closed session. The Court may, if it deems it necessary, examine the application in open court. (7) The decision on the request for review shall not be subject to appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1, which shall become § 6. They voted 103 MPs: 84, none, abstention 19. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the text, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes the creation of § 7: .................................................... In Chapter 50, the article is created. Art. 624a. 624b: "Execution of foreign acts on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure and on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 805/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 introducing a European enforcement basis in the event of irrefutable claims Art. 624a. (1) The application for the issue of an executive list on the basis of a European executive basis for an indisputable claim or on the basis of a decision in European proceedings for actions with little material interest shall be submitted to the district court at the permanent address of the debtor, at its seat or at the place of execution. (2) The order shall be appealed according to the order of art. 623 para. 6. The appeal period shall run for the applicant from the service of the order and for the defendant from the service of the call for voluntary execution. (3) The appeal of the order by which the application is granted shall not stop execution. Suspension or limitation of execution within the meaning of art. 23 of Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 establishing a European Small Claims Procedure and of art. 23 of Regulation (EC) No 805/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on the introduction of a European enforceable ground for undisputed claims Art. 624b. (1) Suspension or limitation of the execution of judgments of a Bulgarian court given pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 861/2007 shall be ordered by the court before which the case is pending and, in the case of a decision entered into force, by the Court of First Instance. (2) An application for suspension of execution of a foreign decision shall be submitted to the district court which has issued the order for admission and the executive list.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u194	According to § 2 of the present proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 626a: A review in exceptional cases Art. 626a. (1) The defendant may submit an application for review of a European order for payment under the terms and conditions of art. 20 of Regulation (EC) No 1896/2006 to the relevant Court of Appeal. (2) The request for review shall be submitted within 30 days. The period shall start from the day on which the defendant has actually become acquainted with the content of the order or after having been referred to in art. 20 (1) (b) the circumstances of the Regulation cease to exist. (3) The Court shall send a copy of the application to the other party, which may submit a reply within one week of receipt. (4) The request shall be dealt with in a closed session. The Court may, if it deems it necessary, examine the application in open court. (5) The order of the court shall not be subject to appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the committee to the text of § 2, which shall become § 8. Vote 92 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u196	By § 3 "Contributor' text. An offer came from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 9, by: 1. in Art. 1. 635 the words "scope of "scopies' shall be replaced by a copy of "scopies'; 2. in art. 636, para. 2 the words "scopies' of "scopies' shall be replaced by a copy of "scopies'; 3 in art. 637, para. 2 the words "scopies' of "scopies' shall be replaced by a copy of "scopies'; 4 in art. 638, para. 1 the words "scope of "scopies' shall be replaced by a copy of "scopies'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 9, with the editorial amendments in art. 635, 636, 637 and 638, which are proposed by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 75, none, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u198	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports it. An offer has been made by the MP Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports it. The Commission proposes to set up a section of "Concluding provisions" with § 10 and 11: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following § 10. In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 144 shall be added at the end, with the exception of art. 61, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of § 11. In the Law on Obligations and Contracts (prom., SG...), art. is created. 116a: Art. 116a. Where the claim is made in part, the limitation period shall be suspended or interrupted only for the part claimed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-10.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Concluding provisions' by § 10 and 11 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 20. The offer is accepted. Communications on parliamentary control on 11 May 2018: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer four questions from the MPs Alexander Siddi, Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Jankov; Todor Bajchev and Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev and one question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Atanas Tashkov, Alexander Matsurev, Dimitar Gechev and Hristo Gajev and Ivelina Vasileva, Galya Vasileva, Dimitar Lazarov and Andrian Raykov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev and one question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Rumen Georgiev and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva, Nadya Klisurska-Zekova and Pencho Milkov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva; Anna Alexandrova, Altimir Adamov and Kiril Kalfin; and Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Education and Science Krassimir Valchev will answer six questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov, Kristina Sidorova, Irena Anastasova, two questions, Yordan Mladenov and Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev; Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Penev and Georgi Yordanov, Vasil Antonov and Violeta Jelev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Boris Yachev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to three questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Georgi Svilenski, and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to three questions written by the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, Veska Nencheva and Irena Anastasova, and Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - four questions from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Manol Genov, Stoyan Mirchev and Dragomir Stoinev and one question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev, Ivelina Vassileva, Ivan Valkov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vassileva and Asya Peeva to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will not participate. The next regular plenary session of 11 May 2018 at 9.00 p.m. according to the adopted Programme for Work of the National Assembly. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
