ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I'll read you a message before we start: On 3 May 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2018 to 25 May 2020. No 820-00-13, in accordance with the provision of art. 261a, para. 5 of the Law on Electronic Communications The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has provided the National Assembly with summary information under art. 261a of the Law on Electronic Communications, January. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Internal Security and Public Order Commission and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. We have an opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Your attention is: "COMMODITY" on draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, No 854-02-20, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2018. At its meeting held on 25 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, No 854-02-20, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2018. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that the form of the basic monthly remuneration of the MPs should be changed and should not be revalued every three months. The project proposes that the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly be fixed of BGN 2976, which represents remuneration from the end of the 43rd National Assembly and is not subject to recalculation until the end of the 44th National Assembly. Mr. Zarkov noted that the public representative is not entitled to unpaid leave, but the holidays are much longer than the official holidays. Therefore, it is proposed that the holiday of the National Assembly be from 1 August to 31 August, and that during the Christmas and Easter holidays the MPs rest as much as the official working days. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov, Krum Zarkov, Simeon Naydenov, Pencho Milkov and Daniel Kirilov. MPs Hristian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Simeon Naydenov expressed their negative opinion on the draft decision. During the discussion Mr. Kirilov proposed a new version of § 3 as art. 5 is amended as follows: The National Representatives receive monthly remuneration on a basis of BGN 2976 multiplied by the participation coefficient, which is formed by the number of votes of the National Representative against all votes for the period in question. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 6 votes for the National Assembly, 1 vote against the National Assembly, and 10 votes abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt the draft decision amending the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, No 854-02-20, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 April 2018.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For the motives of Mr. Zarkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little more than a year ago, the Forty-fourth National Assembly began its work with the primary remuneration of the MPs from BGN 3210. That was close to 300 leva. more than the colleagues who completed the work of the previous Forty - Third National Assembly. For the past 12 months, our remuneration has been revalued several times, and today it is BGN 3540. There is practically no sphere in the state, even in the private or public sector, in which employees' salaries grow at such a speed. We therefore propose that the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly should be set at exactly BGN 2976, as the previous Members of the National Assembly have completed, and that this remuneration should not be subject to recalculation until the end of our Legislature. In addition, we propose that the MPs should not continue to be entitled to unpaid leave, but that their vacations be as they are for the other Bulgarian citizens. We therefore propose that in the main Christmas and Easter holidays they rest as much as the official ones. Parliament's only vacation to be from 1 August to 31 August. Dear colleagues, in addition to these motives I would like to bring to your consciousness and three arguments. The first one's financial. We propose that the salary of the MPs should be reduced by about 600 BGN. monthly. For 240 MPs, that's about 144,000. lv. a month. Thirty-six months to the end of this legislation, which makes five million. 200,000. lv. Saved on the state budget. We should also bear in mind that some 200 other senior administration officials, members of committees elected by this Parliament, ministers and other senior officials are bound by our salary. If our proposal is accepted, it will be saved for the next 3 years about 15 million. lv. I'm sure each of you has a cause that can be supported by that 15 million. lv. and be much closer to the citizens than our reward. My second argument is of an ethical nature, it relates to the idea of solidarity. From a reply of the Minister of Finance of a question, made by our colleague, it is clear that nearly 30% of Bulgarians last year declared income below BGN 250, more than 1 million declared income between BGN 250 and 600. And the other day, during May 1st, the trade unions reminded us that 80% of Bulgarian citizens work for a salary lower than the average monthly salary. Agree that it is not normal for the majority of our compatriots to work for a salary below the average monthly salary, and we to work for three medium monthly ones. Some will call it populism. [[(Shouts from GERB: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] , but the right word, honourable Members, is solidarity. [[Heckling]] My calls prove that I have to make my third argument, it's imagey, reputational. [[Relations of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Dear Minister of Culture Rashidov, with this 15 million we could help [[Replications by National Representative Vejdi Rashidov]] For example, the cultural check program you refused because there is no money! Reputation! Trust in parliament! Naturally, in our institution, the highest one in the country, is reflected the general distrust of all institutions and we are obliged to bear that in mind. Do you think the news that comes out on TV and newspapers every 3 months helps us that MPs have raised their salaries again? Do you think it helps us look better in the eyes of citizens those reports every time before Christmas and Easter, when it is said that we will rest 10 or 12 days more than others? Did we have an answer during our tours now, during the holidays, to the question: [[(Relations and calls from the right. Replies of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev. Revelation: Who has rested more?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is unlikely that we will simply overcome the gap that separates us from the Bulgarian citizens and your calls, including from the front row of highly respected people, shows that there is much to be done on this occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u5	What have you been doing since you've been here?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u6	But find out! It's time to change, and that can start now! Because it depends more on the effectiveness of our work, but it also depends on how we talk here depends on how we change this debate. It will also depend on how people will accept our work, because, believe me, at the moment people perceive our work clearly and poorly. Therefore, I ask that we put aside the shifts and take seriously an issue that may not seem serious to you, but is periodically the subject of discussions both in the media and by citizens. I'm asking for serious treatment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I open the debates, my fellow Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people! Do you recognize these words, colleagues? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u9	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u10	Each and every one of us has uttered them when Parliament's work began. Let's see what we've sworn to! In the Constitution: All people are born equal by rights, all citizens are equal before the law. There shall be no privileges based on...................................................... [[Heckling]] That's what we swore! [[Shouts from GERB.]] Are these just words, or are we putting in them content for equal rights of all Bulgarian citizens? Is this a National Assembly that adopts laws and implements them, or is it a National Assembly that adopts laws and violates them? The laws in which we swore that we would respect, apart from the Constitution, are: Code of Labour, which says that the leave of workers is 20 days and the official holidays. [[Replications of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] People in employment and employment. All Bulgarians, except parliament and structures around us, leave is 20 days and holidays. [[Noise and lines.]] Under the Civil Service Act, in which we have also sworn that we will carry out 20 working days and the official holidays. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 31 days in August; from 22 to 10 January
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u11	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u12	Where does the principle of equal rights go? Why are vacations given, and why are salaries paid, honourable Members? The Labour Code says: vacations to recover a person from his work and salaries to work. How is it that another Bulgarian outside the parliament is different from us that it takes 20 days to recover from his work, and we 67? [[(Noise. Replica from GERB: We do not have 67 days leave!]] With what a man who works outside, identical to ours, gets and deserves 800 levs and we deserve 3,500 levs.? On what grounds do I ask you about equal rights and respect for the laws?! I will quote some of your election promises, programs and speeches: "The main part of our policies will be aimed at overcoming inequality" and ask you how exactly are you overcoming it? Very nice words! Here's how: you increased the minimum wage to 400 000 Bulgarians by 50 BGN and the MPs by 560 BGN. Ten times is the difference! Is this how inequality is overcome, or is it deepening?! The average increased by 100 BGN and the MP increased by 560 BGN. Five times! Is this how you overcome inequality?! No! That's how it gets deeper.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u13	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u14	You'll have the right to speak up, apostrophe me and everything else. I've heard all these arguments, Mr. Rashidov. It was populism to execute the Constitution and the laws of the country. Observing people's equality to laws is not populism, it's law and order. [[Noise and lines.]] We've been working on Saturdays and Sundays, and we've been working around the clock. Well, the laws provide for this thing to happen: for work outside of working hours up to 12 days of extra leave, but not 67. You still don't follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u15	You're lying! If I have 67 days off...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u16	Don't you know you're taking 67 days off? Well, read your rules: 67 days. The third argument I've heard, we must have high wages to avoid being tempted to steal, you say, of course. And did the high wages stop Sujuka and Sujukgate? Did the high salary stop Haskovogate? Did the high salary stop the mayor of September? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Honourable Members, right in these laws [[shows the Labour Code]] Bulgaria's Labour Code is said if you haven't read it, even though you have accepted it, it says what a salary is given and it doesn't say anywhere that in Bulgaria and around the world a salary is given so as not to steal a salary is given for work. Here I have another argument: there are months in which we adopt 10 laws, there are those in which we do not accept any of them. How does the salary relate to the result of our work? Not only is it not relevant, but there are months in which we do not adopt any law, but our salary increases by quarter and reaches 3,500 BGN. Where is the value of money against labor? There isn't one. Here in the most important building in which laws are passed and must be implemented, this principle is gone. Last time I checked, injustice. Our oath, which I read in the beginning, ends: "And in all my actions I will be guided by the interests of the people. " - Because you are talking about demagogy, colleagues, about populism, I have a question for you: Whom do you represent here or the Bulgarian people? By Constitution, we represent the people, but let's limit ourselves to everyone representing the people who chose them and sent them here. I want one of you to come out here, one of all of you, and to say three names only to real Bulgarians, not fictional, who, when they voted for you or now when you meet them, ordered you: go to Parliament and regardless of the quality of the laws you make, regardless of the amount of work you make, increase your salaries every three months with the increase of the average salary. Come on, tell me three such Bulgarians that you represent here. [[Noise and lines.]] No, honourable Members, behind all these words about populism, about demagogy is that you do not represent the interests of the people in which you swore your interests, you keep your money and your good deeds! If you do not accept it today, which I am sure of, because obviously the political class of Bulgaria is resisting this voluntarily to give up privileges for the benefit of its people, you will not accept it. But sooner or later, it's gonna happen. I'm the guarantor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u17	He'll never solve it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u18	When the people decide that the BSP should have a majority in this Parliament, when the people decide it, and not you, we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we guarantee that this will be the first act of that National Assembly in which we will have a majority. The first act will be a new Rules for Parliament's work: without leave privileges, without salaries, which grow without reason, without free maps for the public transport and without all other bonuses, benefits and privileges, which have overgrown the political class of Bulgaria. I promise you that! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. A line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will start with what I am impressed that such proposals always, but always during these twenty-more years of democratic parliament are done whenever a party is in opposition. I will address my colleagues from BSP: four times you managed the state during this period and not once, when you were in power, did you make such a proposal. This one first. Secondly, I quote my fellow citizens Georgi Gergov, who says the following: I can list the red businessmen in our party for hours. When we have so many millionaires, I'm not only talking about BSP, but the BSP is the most, it is proven, I suggest the following: give, all those who are millionaires, for the polzu rodu not to receive a salary at all. Here's a counteroffer. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] And thirdly, Mrs. Nino, swear that if you come to power one day, this will be the first thing you will do, but so far the facts show otherwise.... you have not done so for twenty-something years. I will quote the Roman Senate, which says a very interesting principle: "Senatores boni viri, senatos mala bestia." The senators are good people separately, but the senate is a wild beast. When we enter this sacred hall, we seem to be going mad and starting to make sometimes ridiculous proposals, and in the end we are a parliamentary republic. By being really fair, come on, Mrs. Ninova, look at the salaries of the head of agencies that we in Parliament are voting on. We are their employers, and they receive twice as much wages as any member of parliament. Then let's change that principle. Is that right? Colleagues, head of agencies get over 10,000. lv. paycheck, check the readings. We take a lot less of them. I repeat, we are a parliamentary republic, we have not become presidential, we have not become monarchic power, and at the moment this National Assembly is the face of the entire state. I say nice or bad, I don't comment on how we're appreciated. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u21	Mr. Atanasov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u22	So, I'm out of time. This proposal, if it is made by the ruling party, when it is in power, will truly accept that it is sincere. It's called wild populism right now what's going on here. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u23	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a second line? Mr. Rashidov, wait till we're done with the back. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u24	Mr. Atanasov, but read these laws, people, before you go out to comment on them. Read these laws! These agencies that you mention taking such high wages are derived from the salary of the MPs. In the Bill we are proposing to you and which you have obviously not read at all, you reject it a priori, you do not want to give up wages, it says: "When the salaries of the MPs are reduced, respectively, to all those agencies to which we are employers: Financial Supervision Commission, KEWRC, CRC, KPC, everything goes down. Read these things! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u25	We read the laws!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u26	Prime Minister, ministers, president, ombudsman, all salaries go down because they are derived from ours, percentage of ours. So let us reduce the agencies and not let ours touch them, not only shows ignorance of the Law, but it is also pointless, because when we touch ours, theirs goes too. Second of all, I agree that when we get in here, we're freaking out. I ask you: which of you has promised in the election campaign to support the people he has campaigned for: support us, your salaries will be raised by 50 BGN and ours by 500? By the door of parliament you have all spoken the opposite: we will take care of you, we will increase incomes, we will be modest, we will think about the people. You break the door and say, "For the people, 50 BGN, and for us, 600 BGN." Well, that's insane, you're right. As for millionaires, oligarchs and how for 20 years different majorities of BSP and different BSP governments have not proposed such measures. Dear colleagues, if you do not remember this, but it is not your job to remember it, we remember it, two years ago the Bulgarian Socialist Party chose a new leadership and it has the right to a new policy. [[Noise and lines.]] Not only does he have a right when they have chosen this leadership and this group, they have stated what the new policy will be. If you open the pages of our party documents and the transcripts of this parliament from our first day, you will see that this has been stated. Not only has it been stated, but the first act that the group made, and this leadership in this Parliament, is to submit this proposal a year ago. Have you forgotten that too, or are you just comfortable mentioning it? So today the test for all of us is because I know what you have prepared, your whole strategy is clear to us, who voted how many times, how many times you didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u27	What's the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u28	We can take this out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u29	Time, Mrs. Ninova, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u30	That's not the point, guys. [[Noise and lines.]] The people don't know the difference between left and right in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u31	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u32	For people, the people's representative is the same, from any party, and it's a matter of consciousness to understand it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, your duplicate time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u34	... And that today's vote is a way to start cleaning up...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I asked for a statement, and at the beginning, so that we could actually establish and base this debate on concrete facts so that it wouldn't speculate, not manipulate, not distort the facts and circumstances. I will first start by saying that yes, it is not really the first time we have been debating this issue over the past year. Apparently, some of the importers use this topic for other purposes. I'm not going to qualify the targets so that someone doesn't say that these are one or the other interpretations, but this is the third discussion on this subject. We last discussed this issue with the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for This Decision shall I would remind you, I would like to recall, without quoting, the quotes are easy, the statement of Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, who, in my opinion, said something basic and essential: alas, the remuneration of the MPs is linked to the determination of the remuneration of many senior and senior civil servants in the structure of government. Not so much for committees or agencies, no. I am ready with examples to show that in committees and agencies we have quite significant and significant differences with our remuneration, but I say again that I would not like to speculate on this. Compared, we have to compare properly. I will not raise the question of whether it is 20 working days, whether it is 20 calendar days, how to calculate the days, whether interruption between sessions is a vacation, or whether even with colleagues in the report we have recorded the rest of the members. Vash, and I would say a very prestigious lawyer colleague once said, so I will refer to him: the Bulgarian Parliament has the most parliamentary meetings in relation to all 28 Parliaments in the European Union. We checked with our colleagues and found that this was the case. I'm showing you the Bundestag and the Bundesra. [[Shows.]] The printout is black and white, you can't see, but there are weeks, even months, when you don't meet. For example, for January this year there are meetings from 15 to 19 January and meetings on 29 and 30 January. Count them five or six days. On February, the dates were similar to February 19 to February 23, February 26 to March 2nd. That is, the European Parliaments are meeting in another way and much less, that is, European MPs have much more time to communicate with their voters, because if we sit here 24 hours a day, our voters will only see us on television. But this is also another topic, another problem and another issue that I would not like to escalate and continue in this debate. I go back to justice, I go back to being fair is it the criterion for determining a remuneration to be fixed, to be static, to be undefined by specific indicators? There is no fair system for determining remuneration in which we do not have an element of valuation. 25 years ago you have decided, colleagues, that the average gross salary in the public sector can be a criterion that it reflects the growth of the economy. That's what Minister Goranov told you. Yes, if you do not want to use this criterion, let's change the model, but we need to calculate, take a true and correct objective criterion and therefore all these remunerations of all these positions to attach them to an objective criterion. You don't offer a criterion, you offer a fix. That's what happened to the city councilmen's fees, if I'm not mistaken, 10 or 12 years ago. Municipal councillors received long remuneration of 108, 123, 127 BGN. How far are we going? Once again, we come to justice. I haven't been to the National Security Advisory Council with the President, but you've been there discussing how religious formations should be given a state subsidy. Why grant a state subsidy to religions? - in order to be independent from external payments, the topic that this Parliament is also debating with regard to NGOs. In order to ensure transparency of remuneration in order to clarify who is paying and who is ordering, remuneration must be clear and it must be clear who is paying this remuneration. That's why you were obviously thinking in that direction with the president. We do not speculate and do not ask why any flyer takes for a flight hour bonus above the remuneration BGN 2100. Mrs. Ninova, BGN 2,100. for a flight time! Mr. Velchev, do you take BGN 2,100? for a flight time? You probably don't. We've been hearing about the energy rewards. Energy workers did not want to be in a relationship that was written in the law that Mrs. Ninova knew, but wanted to be on such remuneration so that they would have the average wages for the sector, and they were over 3,500 BGN. I would also say the following: this parliament, and the last one, had a lasting tendency to increase the remuneration of the magistrates several times. Magistrates, including young ones at the moment, if they have the second rank in the hierarchy, receive higher remuneration from the MPs. And that's why we're counting on them to be independent. If we are going to speculate and manipulate, I have made a proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I would support it: let's put here a factor of participation. There are MPs who appear in plenary for a few minutes and disappear. [[Noise and lines.]] Here is the printout of the National Assembly for 1000 votes covering the period 1 February " 31 March." A thousand votes, Mrs. Cornelia Nino has participated in 37 of them. [[prolonged applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB]] , i.e. Mrs. Ninova's participation rate is 3,7%, which means that if we apply this factor in terms of base remuneration [[crowd cheering and chirping]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u37	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u38	...what you offer, its remuneration must be 110 leva. And 20 cc's. [[single applause from GERB]] which would mean that everything above BGN 111. is indecently obtained within the meaning of the Labour Code, Mrs. Ninova! [[(Extreme applause and applause and shouts.) ……]] When you have eyes to speak this to your constituents, tell the whole truth. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have been reworked against the Bundestag, dear colleague Kirilov. Why didn't you show the schedule between the incomes of the Bulgarian citizens and the Germans? Get out here and show it, see what the difference is. Show the chart and compare between the average salary in Germany and the average salary in Bulgaria, let's see. [[Noise and lines.]] Not in Germany, colleague Kirilov, in Cyprus, the MPs there, in Cyprus, receive about three times the minimum wage. Do you know how much you get over the minimum? 7 8 times!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u41	If it wasn't for Oresharski, we'd be taking them here too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u42	In addition, I said yesterday: it is a pity that you understand legislative activity in this way, because the National Assembly has at least three functions of legislative, executive control and a forum that forms public opinion. What public opinion do you form here when you say you've been reworked and you get eight times the minimum wage? Is this the formation of public opinion? Yeah, that's how you form it. It is a pity that you are reducing the work of the Members of the National Assembly only to the vote. This shows your attitude towards the whole legislative process. I understand that you are a rubber stamp of the Council of Ministers, you come here and vote, but the legislative process is much more than that and is also expressed in the introduction of bills. To ask you how many bills have you submitted from the government and how many have we imported? And you don't accept them because you're the rubber stamp and you work for the Council of Ministers. That's what you do. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] PRESENT COLOR KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Mitev, come in. Next up is Mr. Zarkov's line and Mrs. Ninova's personal explanation when we're done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, I expected you, as Chairman of the Legal Commission, to do a detailed analysis of the norms of the Labour Code, which Mrs. Ninova spoke of. The Labour Code shall provide for, in addition to 20 days of paid annual leave and up to 60 days of unpaid annual leave of each worker or employee. In addition, I expect you to do an interesting analysis with regard to the disciplinary penalties that are imposed and, in particular, the disciplinary penalty of dismissal for non-employment for three consecutive days. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I will divide my line to you in two, as your speech was in two directions. For the first part, I congratulate you because you have taken this matter seriously and with the necessary preparation. I'm paying attention to the fact that that part of the room [[pointing left-hand side]] He listened to your arguments to disprove them, yes, but he listened to them. And I'm paying attention to the fact that this part of this room [[sighs right-hand side]] meet our arguments. You mentioned the finance minister, he was a MP when we discussed the National Assembly's Rules on Organization and Activity, where we proposed freezing the recalculation, essentially the same. We proposed it as a temporary measure to work out a better, fairer way of calculating wages. Then both he and a large part of the majority of us acknowledged, united ourselves that this way of calculating is not good, is not good in many criteria, which we also defined in the motives. Unfortunately, nothing has happened since then, no suggestions. If you have a better one, please do it, but do it seriously and say: "This is what I am proposing." "And it is not the question of Mrs. Ninova either for Mr. Kirilov or for whomever you want." Your reasons, your right, and you say: "I propose this coefficient." We will get together, we will consider it and we will vote it out, and why should we not accept it, because you are right, one of the things that irritates people is the empty room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u46	Where are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u47	If you have a coefficient, a proposal, a way to make sure that there is better discipline and there is a more proportionate pay, give it, but give it real. Don't give it as some kind of provocation or some kind of speculation in your words. And on your second part, which has already entered the normal tone, which has led Parliament's rating to 7%, namely.................................. we have found that indicator that will embarrass Ninova. However, the indicator of Parliament's work is not the votes of Ninova, but the quality of the legislation and this quality is bad and I do not say it, but it is said by the biggest lawyers of this country. And for that quality, as head of the Legal Commission, you're in charge. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u49	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, whom you have replicated! It's what we compare to. If we compare, figuratively speaking, we can never come to true conclusions and results. I will not argue whether we should compare ourselves to European colleagues. I will not argue whether we should compare ourselves to the President, the Prime Minister and their remuneration. I'm going to say something from my memories. I was 3 years and 9 months governor of Sofia with remuneration 1206 BGN. during the time of the government Borisov 1. Immediately thereafter, with the next Oresharski government, this remuneration jumped almost twice and a half, which means my successor was already working for a serious reward. Then Prime Minister Borisov said to the regional governors: "You work for a cause, you do not work for 1000 or for 1206 BGN."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u50	That's what we're telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u51	How's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u52	Now it's like that again. Colleagues commented and explained now the millionaires could have very 3000 leva. payback. They may not be interested in that kind of reward at all. Maybe they're willing to donate it at all and let them do it. We had a worthy MP at the Municipal Council a long time ago. Prof. Bozidar Dimitrov, who was donating his salary to a municipal councillor during...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u53	He was never a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u54	City councilman. Whoever feels that he receives his reward undeservedly has many opportunities to realize the legal basis. He may donate, may assist, openly or concealedly, may also grant scholarships or benefits in return under some or other conditions. Mr. Zarkov will not respond to provocation, because he is a colleague who is valuable in the debate of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I would not like to point our finger and say: you answer, you do not answer, I am innocent, you are guilty. I believe that all, not only lawyers, are responsible for the quality of legislation in this Parliament. The quality of legislation, colleagues, is also not dependent on media manipulations, as well as on the voices of the affected persons. No, it doesn't. If you claim, do a precise analysis, a comparative analysis, return as much as you want Parliament back and you will see that for some reason or other, I do not claim that these are necessarily the efforts of Kirilov or Zarkov, but we are improving in much part the legislative decisions, making less and less mistakes. Yes, you say: act quickly. Sometimes we actually move fast, which means we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Personal explanation Mrs. Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u56	Dear colleagues, you were tempted to finally enter the tone again, which is usually inherent to those who are in charge when you have no arguments against the idea of attacking the bearer of the idea in person. I'm prepared for that, of course. When I've suggested these things, I've prepared myself for everything that's going to happen to me. I know about the system's resistance, I know what he's gonna come up with, I know what he's gonna put on my head. Since you don't have any real arguments against what I'm suggesting, let's humiliate Ninova so we can demean her idea. You know why it can't happen? I'll take it all, I'll take your attacks. When I go, I know where I'm going. But you know why you won't make it? Because of a survey from last week, which I think you ordered, 91% of Bulgarian citizens support BSP's proposal for salaries and leave of MPs. That's what you can't compromise and embarrass. [[GERB lines.]] As much as you beat me personally, this opinion of 91% of the Bulgarians cannot compromise, embarrass and cancel. And worst of all, when you say that we should compare, you never compared yourself to these people in your speeches. You compared yourself with the MPs in Germany, with the millionaires, but not once with the Bulgarians who live differently, you didn't compare. The most amazing thing about me that you said, you probably made a mistake in Borisov's first term we worked for a cause. With an argument for the contrary there is one such thing in law, Mr. Kirilov, you know in the third term you work for another thing, but not for a cause! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, a group of students from the Professional High School in Burgas are visiting the National Assembly. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Let's keep talking. Mr. Markov. Now I see, Mr. Nikolov, that you are recorded. I apologize. After Mr. Markov, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I respect the Bulgarian Socialist Party, including Mrs. Ninova, a second political force. It is your right to raise questions as you see fit. I will vote against it and I think it is fundamentally wrong to deal with the status of Members of the National Assembly. The status of the Members of the National Assembly shall be made by a founding assembly. We're not founding. We are not on the 30th day of the changes in Bulgaria, but on the 30th year! Here, in this hall, a Grand National Assembly, elected by 92% of Bulgarian citizens, has long debated what the status of the Bulgarian MP should be and decided to be what it is now, including about the payment of a triple amount of the average salary. Bulgaria chose parliamentary democracy as well one day here in one of the parliaments Mrs. Nora Ananieva, a prominent socialist, a colleague, said: "Dear thing is democracy! " In 1990 there was such talk: that the king should come, that he should go into the forest, and that he had property, and that we should drive only with him. He decided we'd be a parliamentary democracy. We have decided to be a permanent parliament. It's working all the time! I don't want to give examples with Germany and with other democracies, but I can set an example with a former socialist country, with smaller territory than ours, with a slightly larger population. Her name is Hungary. A country winner of the transition, as President Stoyanov used to call it. I'm setting an example with her because there was an election now. You know, Victor Orbán's giddy win, third in a row with two thirds. And now, on Tuesday, another new Hungarian parliament is set up. How did the old one end? What kind of salary were the MPs on? I made a reference to 750,000 forints received in the previous parliament, which makes 2500 euros, and so for collaborators, 100 euros for a mobile phone and so on. Yesterday it came out on the website of the Hungarian Parliament that the newly elected Hungarian MPs -- 199 of them -- 106 majority -- will receive a million forints salary, which makes in Bulgarian money 3300 euros. The salary of lawmakers in Hungary rose by 700 €800 due to good Orban-Economics and jumping in total on the average salary in Hungary, which is currently going about 1000 euros. It is interesting to note that the Hungarian Parliament after the Constitution 2012 is not permanently active. They gather now on the 8th, choose their guide, by the end of the month choose Orban for the third consecutive and fourth time in total. And, June, notice, it's a tradition in recent years in Hungary, they're adopting next year's budget. July, August and so on go to voters, make policies. Yesterday, for example, I was in Teteven, fulfilling my constitutional obligation to be a member of all Bulgarian citizens, not only of Sofians. I went, met with the mayor, 30 councilmen, talked to her. There were leftovers asking me about the game and so on. [[Radio.]] We must agree that in order to raise the authority of Parliament, we must undoubtedly improve our work.... the laws, the Constitution, if we are to change in the hypothesis when it is not the competence of a Grand National Assembly, how we choose it, how we control it, and not on the way to the removal of wages. The next step is to remove them at all and finally shut down parliament. After all, we are a parliamentary country. We set the agenda in Bulgaria. We have a directly elected head of state. I respect Mr. Radev, two million people are behind him. But this is the parliament that is responsible for the state of the country. Our salary is measured by the responsibility we bear. And that's absolutely true. If there is to be any resection in the public sector, it could be, in my opinion, that in 30 years of democracy we have made over a hundred committees, committees, agencies. I don't know how many there are anymore. By opening the Constitution, you read that domestic and foreign policy in this country is done by the government. Well, there is a constitutional text that other state authorities can be made, but we have made over a hundred agencies, committees, committees, which if you look at the work of the ministries, are semi-responsible. Some come in here, read reports, grabbed us for listeners. A man here reads an hour and a half. Things have to be said short and clear these days. We're not retarded, we're MPs. We must go on the path of rethinking that internal and foreign policy is being made by the ministers and the Council of Ministers. They answer to us. Agencies, committees and so on, let's take this job down a little bit. Therefore, I think that the next elections should be held under a new electoral law. GERB complied with the vote of Bulgarian citizens in the first days of the new parliament and introduced a majority electoral law. It was rejected. Now, however, I have heard... I respect your law...... you want the government's resignation on 1 May. Imagine you gave it up and we're going to elections! The question is the next election - early or regular - by which electoral law will we conduct them? The more proportionate one? Sorry, fellow Members, 500 thousand people have hardly supported the current law in a referendum. Five hundred thousand! I agree that we need a new law. You made a promise here publicly that you would import a mixed electoral system. You even called it maybe German, I replicated then that we have Bulgarian and so on. Introduce this law on the mixed electoral system, let's move towards refreshment of parliament, electoral legislation and the formation of stable parliamentary majorities. We need parliaments in Bulgaria, as in Hungary, not once in early elections, to spend their mandates so that we do not spend extra money and validate parliamentary democracy, not to go to anarhodemocracy. Thanks. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Markov. - What's the line? I'm sorry, there are no lines for you, Mr. Markov. [[Radio.]] Mr. Nikolov, I apologize again for missing you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I think this topic is really important. However, I see it more conceptually in terms of the image of the National Assembly and respectively of our image as MPs. Personally, I think we're pretty humiliating thinking that we're getting salaries in connection with the job done because I personally didn't become a representative or I didn't want to get up to get paid here. Because if I wanted to be rewarded in any way for my work, I would go in another way. I think that these rewards that we receive are in connection with satisfying in some way our standard in terms of our family, in terms of us, so that we can make sure that we can spend all our time on what we have dedicated ourselves to, on the policies that we have defended. It's no coincidence that when we went to the voters and defended policies, we didn't say, "We come here to get five leva wages. Choose us! By the way, it was right when they were Rome, and they were cities-states. The primes didn't really get the rewards, but they did have a business. Perhaps the concept here would have been the wrong one if there was a Law on lobbying, we would have had a right to business, and now we have no right to have, in a governing and supervisory council, it cannot be the MP and thus we know who lobbies for us, how we get our incomes and we would not receive any remuneration as MPs. If we get salaries, then in this case we have to stay here long enough for voters to see us, we can make no laws, or in some way our quality of work needs to be evaluated. That is, some MPs who have given more laws should receive more than others who have given less laws or better quality. That is, if the salary in any way really is a salary, it should be an assessment based on quality. And we all get the same rewards, regardless of how we give our share here or in our place of birth, or to our constituents, or in their legislative activities. That's why I personally think it's a really big populism. Why? Because if we ask people's intentions about us, do we want to get three salaries of 2,000. 970 BGN, or zero BGN, how much do you think they'll say we should get? Of course it's zero leva. What if we move from these interests, let it be from zero leva! Why 2,000? £970.? How come we chose them, I couldn't understand? Once upon a time, when the Grand People's Assembly was set up and decided in this way, they decided not to judge each time the MPs themselves how much their remuneration would be. That's why they said three average wages. That's it! No more, no less! So we don't have to evaluate ourselves on how much to get. That is why I say again: this is not an assessment of our work. This is some way that we can abstract ourselves from the domesticisms so that we can devote ourselves to what we actually represent. If we were really moving from the interests of the people, then we had to reduce party subsidies, as GERB found itself on this call and proposed a bill, but it was not adopted. He wasn't accepted! Why? We're moving out of the interests of the people, aren't we? Is that hypocrisy? Absolutely! People will never be misled by a hypocritical proposal. If you went to the homes of each left voter, you would see a candle and everyone prayed that they would not be misled by this populism and that we would really reduce their remuneration. Because they're not convinced it's a paycheck for their labor. I definitely think that we should oppose such things. And this is true: no voter would want to pay for the scandals that reproduce here. Never! No one would want this self-destruction to not start with the chair, the restaurant, what to call it here, and any other self-destruct we do so they can raise our ratings. And lastly, I would like to say that at the forty-first meeting, we had frozen the salaries. Nothing's changed, nothing's changed! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikolov, the standard of your family? Wonderful! Everyone has a family, but of those over two million Bulgarians what is their standard, Mr. Nikolov? Don't they have the right to a normal standard of their families? It's a big difference! That's what we're trying to tell you. It's not fair! There are many scissors between the political elite and the people in Bulgaria who work in the private sector who receive minimum wage. There's a huge difference in quality, in the standard of living. And it's unfair. And it creates a sense of injustice in people! That's what we're trying to tell you. And because you're talking about average wages. You know what the average thing is when one eats cabbage, another eats chicken, the average is chicken with cabbage, but you get the chicken, for two million cabbages. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Another line? Mr. Nikolov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you the floor. There's a line of speech, Mr. Petrov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Popov, of course, continues populism. This is an important topic, and that is why we are here, not to save 15 million, but to raise enough standards for people. I would ask you personally the following: Do you have the opportunity, because you are a lawyer, I know, do you have the opportunity as a lawyer, even though you are a Member of the National Assembly, to take additional income from another activity, although your work should be focused solely on you in the National Assembly? [[Noise and lines.]] You do. Why don't you limit yourself? Why don't you limit the incomes, the extras, to absolutely all MPs? Why? [[Noise and lines.]] No, I'm just saying in general. Do you have a point? You're right. Then why don't you limit it? Why not limit the income of all MPs to focus only on the National Assembly? Well, then let's think about the different incomes. And others who do not have the opportunity, who do not have the opportunity to receive such income, what would they do? How would they go if, for example, he didn't pay his electricity, or so-and-so, to his chosen ones? He can't go. He must have satisfied some exotic minimum, it doesn't matter, so decided the Grand National Assembly once upon a time so that he could give her all his time. Do you think he's giving it away? That's for the voter to decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak. [[Noise, lines and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As usual, in my speech, I will try to lighten the situation, because we must not forget that we are the National Assembly. We should not become something that resembles the grandmothers in the villages. [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to support, above all, this issue which the opposition raises, because I think that we in the ruling coalition have little guilt in this, because once Mrs. Ninova put this issue at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, we should have paid attention to it and that it should be put by the government for consideration and for finding a fairer form that could be found with the relevant specialists, a study of how it is in other countries. By the way, Mr. Popov, I respect you as a Member of Parliament, you are active, but you have not made a reference important in your speech to the Parliament in Germany, and I have done it by coming here to speak. It is that since July last year the average salary of a member of parliament in the Bundestag is 9,000. 541 euros a month. The average salary is 3,000. 307 euros per month in Germany. [[Noise and lines.]] No comments, right? I want to tell you something else. When I came to this National Assembly, unlike, it seems, from many of the MPs of the BSP, I received a salary, income, I did not say salary, because my work was such, I was a consultant to 23 middle and smaller farmers. I worked on European projects, which I applied to myself, I took part in. And I think the income I started getting here is smaller than it was. I don't know how you're going to answer this question: why am I here when I get less money?! [[Noise, lines, laughter and applause.]] It's funny to you, but I'll tell you why I'm here because it sounds funny to you. I'm here because I didn't come for a salary. Come on now, laugh! [[Laughter and applause.]] I've made a reference to what the MPs around us are getting. In the Macedonian Parliament, the salary is 1500 euros. Mrs. Ninova's gonna get pretty funny, too. [[Laughter]] There is 1500 euros, the salary in the Romanian Parliament is 2,000. 200 euros, and in the Albanian Parliament it is 3,000. 200 euros. For the Hungarian Parliament, I can supplement the respected former constitutional judge Mr. Markov that in Hungary except for the 3,000. 500 euros, which you said, for an office, you can check it on the Hungarian Parliament's page, for office expenses you get 100 thousand. EUR per year. Shut up. Come on, laugh! [[Laughter]] I'm moving on. I support, imagine, I support the proposal Mrs Nino made, and it is for a fairer assessment of the work of the Members of the National Assembly, and this work is appreciated at the beginning of each following year on the basis of the implementation of the corresponding programmes of the work carried out by the National Assembly for the previous year. And his work is measured with economic indicators and I think the National Assembly should put this increase in its budget once a year, if necessary. If it's a discount to put it in, but once a year, it doesn't happen every three months. And in this regard Mrs. Nino is the rights of no one increase the salary of three months. Let's think about it. The other thing I want to tell you and show you is that as a person who's been doing private business, I've had five or six days a year off. I can tell you, and if anyone says that Petrov is lying now, he's gonna have a job in court, that's how many days off, and right now as a MP, excluding summer vacation. I don't have days off, and that can be checked out. That's right, I don't! You can check it out. Let someone say I'm lying now. Come on, laugh again! However, as a private businessman, I will tell you that the Labour Code obliges the employee or worker concerned to be at work. Where is the working place of the MPs three days a week? What did they swear to? What are they gonna do? They must be the people who make the laws! Where are the laws made? In some agencies there, in some services, in some buildings, or are they made in the House of the National Assembly? Where's this going? In the House of the National Assembly, of course. And in this regard, now the most funny moment, as opposed to Mr. Kirilov, I made a reference to this morally, is it someone who does not perform his duties under the oath of the National Assembly to work for the drafting of laws, because they are made here, is it morally someone wanting to freeze his salary, his salary, after he has worked very, very much below the level of the average MP? In some of the groups there are adopted rules and if any MP has not voted in 50 percent of the time of the votes, his salary will be reduced. There's this thing in our group, too. Here, Mrs. Ninova participated in the votes in February 1.5%! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] She voted 412 times at the National Assembly in March, 15 times! In April, she voted six times! And do you know what this vote means? You know what? I checked for a total of 40 days, during which the National Assembly discussed and adopted laws, Ms. Nino attended 25 days! And in those 25 days, in 18 days she voted only once, at the very beginning, when the MPs registered, and left. I ask in the end: is it moral for us to put up with this thing? Some MP who does not comply with the basic rules of work in the National Assembly, to create, to make laws, here, in this Chamber are done, they are prepared elsewhere, but here the laws are made, are adopted here. [[Replyings, calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is that possible? The vote comes after debates. [[Noise and lines.]] Laugh! The vote comes after debate! Okay, okay! Is that moral? Is it morally moral to moralize and tell us to the rest of us who are very conscientious whether to receive wages, whether to freeze our salaries? [[Replyings, calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And 90 percent of the Bulgarians why don't they vote for you when you say so? That's what I'm graduating with. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u67	Thank you. Please, no insulting qualifications from the court! Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Replies to Mr. Petrov's statement? Mr. Velkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a replica of Mr. Petrov, because apparently from his speech........................ for an average MP, it turned out that the size still matters. [[Noise and lines.]] And to ask the President of the National Assembly, in this case Mrs. Karayancheva, to provide us with these data, which colleagues quote for attendance at meetings, which month who has been absent. I feel for myself that I am an active participant in the meetings, I have breakfast here in Bulgaria, I pray at the temple across the street, so I am present. If I'm at a prayer breakfast in Washington, I'll be gone. Isn't that right? And if then we see who's been somewhere on a business trip, which is quite legal, from the party or from parliament that he's absent, we can say he's voted zero times! So, Mr. Petrov, please don't be demages! Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Invokings: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Is there a second line? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Petrov? There's not gonna be a duvet. Any other speeches? Mrs. Taskova has made a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mrs. Taskova. Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I will not comment on this proposal on its substance, because we at Volja.We have repeatedly stated before our entry into the National Assembly that we do not enter for wages, but that we want the model to change and our state to start developing. However, I will comment on the cynicism with which it is imported and defending it from this tribune. And because we already know the script, I call on everyone in this House to come out in the vote, to remain only BSP, so let's see what kind of circus they play, because they are convinced inside themselves that they do not want this proposal to pass. [[Applause by "Volja".]] Because on many bills that they submit, we are witnessing that in their vote, there are 20 people left to vote. So, colleagues, if we're talking about private business, let's talk really about efficiency, profitability. These are words that are heard in private business, which are also mentioned in the motives of colleagues. Here, from this tribune, I've never heard anyone use those words, I've never heard anyone hold on to these criteria for assessing their work. We from Volja will remind you, especially of you, colleagues, because you are from Stoletnitsa. It is normal to bear the greatest responsibility for the state of the state. You're the mother party. You're the BSP party. [[noise and lines]] you are responsible for the state of the state as it is today, as the most corrupt and poorest state. And let's vote, and we at Volja. We will immediately support you, not just to reduce your wages today, but to return everything from the transition you have received, even if you are doing community service! [[Applause on the right.]] The only thing you can't bring back is people's wasted time! Let's really look to the future and don't look at the pieces in other people's eyes, and look at the beam in your own finally! Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Velchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! This debate began with a quote or rather a reminder of our oath. I, as still chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, because, as you know, the DSS wants my resignation, would start with two of God's Ten Commandments: "Do not steal! " I'll tell you the facts. The leave of Members of the National Assembly shall be 32 or 33 working days, depending on how many days there are August in the relevant year. Our second leave is fixed. We can't choose when to leave, these are certain days, it's fixed. Because they also talked about rights that we should be equal rights. Here, we are not equal rights here. The other is not entitled to unpaid leave, which is also contrary to what some people claim. I would remind people who do not remember or attend, every year we have at least a dozen extraordinary meetings, not to mention working until midnight, which is also contrary to the Code, but we are not appointed under the Code. That is why I say that speculation is speculated and there is such populism that they want to make some parliamentary groups interesting. Let them remember these things and not undermine the authority of the people's representative by lying that we have any rights or that our leave is very great. I'm gonna say something else because there's been talk about what we're working for and what we're paying for. On March 9, 1989, a group of friends created one of the first private companies. From here, from this tribune I declare that it has never been involved in privatisation deals, in privatisation or in public procurement. The second one, which we have received, is declared, including when I entered the parliament in 2009, I sold my business and it can be seen. Each of you can verify that what I have declared for 2009 because right in the middle of the year we entered the parliament, my income has decreased twice! Twice, exactly. And when we talk about it, I talk about a cause. Yeah, cause is that thing! I will remind one other fact of the people who were not here during our first term in the Forty-First National Assembly. In 2011, the question was raised here by us to charge the interest of the depositors with tax. From this tribune, like now, I got up and declared yes, all the money from the sale of my business I declared them, paid taxes to the state and then put them in banks, so I had the least interest in paying those interest rates. But on the left hand side, populism was the same as it was now, and we wanted to rob the poor people with this law, despite the data that we carried out, that the wealthy, with the large contributions, would be the most damaged. Then I asked here, from this stands, to declare a conflict of interest, to announce how much money is in a bank. Then a member of the BSP said that there are 3600 leva. in a bank, but you didn't say anything about Technoimpex! [[Noise and lines, applause from the right.]] I then proposed from this tribune for these MPs to make a fund to help them because with so little money they could not participate in the government of the state. One of the basic laws of politics is that you can't rule the state if you can't pay your tax or rent. So, colleagues, it's not nice when there's populism. Yeah, he's got it, but he's got it when he's lying! Yes, each of us would have given up our salary if he had received one enterprise in the 1990s during the privatisation! [[Applause from GERB.]] As to how much to get. Colleagues, you know very well that we also spend money every month on our income and help both children and sick people and where necessary. I think you're not forgetting that in the areas that suffered from floods and earthquakes, we also built houses. If you really want and are honest, collect, if you want a thousand leva a month from your salaries and do this good. Do this good, and don't ask here that people really think that we don't work, that we're just resting! Just for one appearance in the media, I don't know how it is with you, but I personally, maybe because I'm less prepared, it takes me about two hours to prepare for every show. It's out of respect for the media, for the anchors. And then you go on this show, which could be Saturday, Sunday. I ask: is this about working hours or are we doing nothing again?! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Baichev. In the meantime, fellow Members, let's congratulate our guests today - young people from Kardzhali district. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I listened carefully to everyone's speeches. The quotes appear to be in fashion. I don't know why everyone, starting with Mrs. Nino, Mr. Velchev, didn't know why he was here and probably many of the people present. I'd say this to them: anyone who doesn't know where he's going is coming to the wrong place! As far as remuneration is concerned, yes, it is true that wages are as high or as low as we earn ourselves, however. I've been a lawyer until now. I've never been in public or public work. Before that, I was a legal counsel. I've always negotiated with my boss, now and with my clients, the reward I want, but somehow just compare the amounts with Germany, Macedonia, the Netherlands or any other country... I would advise you to compare the middle of life, because the middle of life in Germany and other countries is not the same. The other thing I don't agree with anymore, Mr. Velchev, is privatization and Technoimpex. I had blisters in my ears to hear about this privatization. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] That's right. Mr. Kirilov as President of the Commission can submit a law with retroactive action. Mr. Kirilov, as was the Law of CCB. Call this deal and in general all privatization to see you, [[GERB noise and lines]] And finally, everyone who's done privatization will go to jail. Finally, it turns out that privatization is perfectly legal and everything is fine. It's just used as a gum for the voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Second line? Mr. Rashidov will have a statement. Second line, Mr. Popov, come in. Once we're done with the jacket, I'll give Mr. Petrov a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Velchev, when I listen to you, people will mourn us alive. Well, it's a tragedy we don't have rights, you sold your company, you work 24/7. However, it requires that the work in the polzu rodeo requires that these large victims receive much more than the minimum wage. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] And you're prone to these victims, the other was populism, the other was demagogy, it was unfair. What's unfair, Mr. Velchev? That for four days' work in the week being held here in the National Assembly, you get eight times the minimum wage?! Is that the wrong thing to do?! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] That is exactly what is unfair, dear Mr. Velchev, but you cannot realize it. The bad news is, if you don't realize it soon, the people will show it to you very clearly. He's already showing you this bright red card because you live in your own world, a fantasy world where everything is flowers and roses. You know the tale of the ladder of Smirnenski. That's where you are. You went upstairs and didn't listen to what was going on down there with the people. With regard to the standard of living, the salaries in the public sphere have certainly risen, so they have risen to the MPs. Well, it'll go up, with 16 billion loans. However, all these 2 million will pay back these loans with 27 billion interest. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what you're gonna do, and you're gonna raise your wages. Great, but someone else will return it! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u77	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Velchev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, you had blisters coming out of the Technoimpex, and I had blisters coming out of the business to see the state rob with these enterprises. We really need blisters until someone gets up and tells us. Because of you blisters, but we talk, blisters come out, but no one explains what happened or how it happened. You're very right. As a person in business, I have always claimed that the problem is this: the difference between politics and business is that there are clear criteria for doing business. These are your bank accounts. If they slow down, you don't work well. In politics there are no such criteria, but only for the salaries of the MPs there is a criterion that has clearly said: "If the state is going well and is developing, and not as 1995 - 1996, then our salaries will grow. " - If we like you start making a $3 salary, then we will also have very low wages. We will strive through this payment, through these criteria to make life better and thus this is the only incentive. Not someone coming with the envelope, leaving it to you and saying, "vote one-what are you, because... You will agree that the only way to make an even more favourable environment for corruption is to reduce income. Then corruption will bloom and we will receive wages from another, which I do not want, and I will not allow it. Mr. Popov, I really don't know if blisters are coming out of us from all the crap we're listening to?! What four working days? What are you talking about? This means to say now that in the Bulgarian media there are people, journalists who receive 5 thousand. lv. For having an hour a week to work. But that's not true, because for this hour these people have been working all week. To make a bill, there are so many meetings with people, NGOs, round tables, which you clearly do not attend.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u79	They're not dating.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u80	With regard to loans, how dare you say that?! For the first time in years, our government has reduced debts. What kind of loans are you talking about? [[Applause from GERB.]] You obviously read these things, but as the devil reads the gospel. And last but not least, I'll tell you about the red card. But they've been showing it to you for 10 years since we've been in power. [[Applause from GERB.]] Stop dreaming about that red card. He won't come to us because people see that we're working. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Mr. Petrov's personal explanation and then Mr. Rashidov's statement. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u82	Thank you, Madam President. I want to address my brother-in-law Mr. Baychev with one wish that he be more focused the next time someone speaks from this stand, because I have not said that I do not know why I have come to the National Assembly. If he wants to live like an airmaster, it's another matter. It's his will, he's a MP. But if, as a lawyer, that's how he did his job to reverse, to take people's words out of context... On the contrary, I said why I'm here and none of you laughed, right? [[Noise and lines.]] So I want us to be exact, to be, as one of your leaders once said, to be exact in our speeches and to be responsible when we come to this high tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. A statement, Mr. Rashidov, will there be? Here you go. Perhaps you should ask for an extension of the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u84	Let's extend the time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u85	Extend group time. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u86	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I did not intend to speak, but first to congratulate my young citizens from Kardzhali. Bless you! [[Applause.]] I don't know why I want to get up. Maybe that's why today again with pretty big shit, I'd say populism, but what's going on here is bullshit. We ruined a whole day when we could do something very useful for those people who are upstairs. The humiliation of the Bulgarian MP is no longer humiliation. I think you've forgotten that Bulgaria is the parliamentary republic of the highest authority in the country. I've been a minister for 10 years, I've learned to carry responsibilities in 10 years. Today at the most responsible institute you behave irresponsiblely. Is this the fun that some leading people will not tell which shows, who already love the people, but hate the Bulgarian MPs, get 15 thousand. lv.? And you deal with the lowest salaries in Europe of Bulgarian MPs. I'll remind you of something. I'll take the liberty of saying that. You didn't think of one left to give, which Velko Kanev was dying of cancer. I paid my salary. When Gogo from Tonika was supposed to be treated in Israel, you didn't think of it. I paid my salary. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u87	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u88	A little quiet! I'm gonna put a little pressure on you here. Yes, when Peter Guzelev of the Crickets had to go to America, I gave my salary. When Nikolai Petev, your sympathizer, had to go to America to be treated for cancer, I helped him again. I'll give you an example. Colleagues, as your salaries are so high, hand them out to the poorer or get rid of them, but do not humiliate the Bulgarian MP by being so noble. I went to visit a communist, a wonderful poet, a great one! I have respect and respect in front of him! Forgotten by you! I sat for a while. He didn't have the money to operate on his blinds, and so did his wife. I asked one of them to write in his old age, and the other one to paint with something to die with: with a brush in his hand, with a feather in his hand. That's how we artists die. We're not retiring, we're dying by the tripod. I cried, left 3,000 BGN, and left. At the door, I simply turned to ask: "Is this our past and is this what our future is waiting for? " - I will not say its name because it is infinitely great. What are you debating today? Do you want us to crawl on our stomachs? Then I will ask you very much, if you want to level up, be equal, pick up your children from the schools of America and bring them to pick tobacco in Kardzhali. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Aren't you ashamed? Democracy! Let's go to brigades?! I've picked tomatoes on Yuper and apples in Lower and Upper Wyno. [[Radio and noise.]] You guys hear what you're doing in this parliament?! I'm really starting to feel ashamed and think about a lot of things. That's your job?! Is this the main activity of the Bulgarian MP?! Not only will they hate us anymore. Every day you undermine the foundations of the Bulgarian state in the face of the Bulgarian Parliament With very high wages, they don't like us anymore. And KTB. Before I became a minister, as the only honest man, where the Court of Auditors made my income, checked through the NRA... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please be quiet! I'll get you the list where you went to see Tsvetan Vassilev. [[Laughter and applause from GERB and OP.]] I'm asking you for honesty not to speak to me! I declared my income, paid my money to the Bulgarian state, paid my taxes. Not the flat one you put in. I paid progressive, coworkers, 40 years, and every penny is crystal clear and proven. How many people said they paid their taxes on the guaranteed deposit? Part of you had a guaranteed deposit. How many of you attended Tsvetan Vassilev for preferential interest rates? I didn't have any, I have the contracts, I can show them to you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And today you talk to me, rather raise money, help the poorer, because socialism cannot go back. Picasso is not equal to you or me. Big! You're not Al Pacino. What do you want us all to be the same? No, there are big Bulgarian artists, and they are bigger than you. Thanks. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? Mr. Velkov, then Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u90	Thank you, Madam President. My line is not provoked by what Mr. Rashidov says.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u91	Then make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u92	On the contrary, much of what he said, I share it. A lot of it! I'm using the line, Madam President, to introduce the parliament to something very brief, and I will present it to you on the occasion of... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u93	Make a line to Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u94	Yes, here's the line to Mr. Rashidov and he'll tell Mr. Tsvetanov who's next to him. Mr. Rashidov, please tell us that from January to April 2018, Mrs. Ninova has eight informal absences, and Mr. Tsvetanov has 16 informal absences. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If it has earned 120 leva, it has earned 60 leva. Thank you. That was my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u95	I'm making a remark to you that that wasn't a line, Mr. Velkov. Procedure. "Tasco Ermenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashidov, we have lived to see the parliamentary group of GERB ask for an extension of the time for discussion for the first time in a year! [[Noise and shouting from GERB.]] Gentlemen, if with the same zeal you want and extending your time to discuss social laws, the laws that protect the poor, those that are unwarranted...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u97	What's the line, Mr. Ermenkov? I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u98	This is a line to Mr. Rashidov about the requested extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u99	Please, Mr. Rashidov's speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u100	For this reason, gentlemen, I salute you! You really made the Prime Minister today and everyone saw her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u101	Don't make a suggestion from the stands! Third line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u102	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Rashidov, my line is provoked not by disagreement with what you say, but by disagreement with the way you think. Charity is something precious and important. It's a good sign for you as a person, but it's a bad sign for us as a country. Those great artists, who you say go to misery, cannot depend on the good will of an MP. The end of the days of those who have created our country's culture cannot depend on whether anyone will be considered noble enough to help them. That's the big question. And precisely because we cannot solve this issue, people feel that we do not deserve our salaries. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You mentioned great artists, you mentioned our sympathizer and former MP Petev, who fought here for a law on Bulgarian language. However, there is no such law yet. And precisely because there isn't, people think that we don't deserve our salaries. You mentioned the children in America. Yes, there are children of our and your MPs who study abroad, but not just in America. That's not bad in itself, but the question is why are they there?! I have a five-year-old son, and from now on, I have to think about where he should be studying. I know he won't be able to study here because education isn't the same and because I don't have an answer to the question why education here isn't like outside. That's why people think I don't deserve my salary. [[Reply of MP Milena Damyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. It's a hole, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u104	Madam President, colleagues! What I have told you is that I have had the desire, but I rarely say it because this is done with a personal choice, with a personal desire, if anything is too much for you, help your fellow believers. And what you're telling me is that artists... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, colleague. While I was Minister the first term, all Bulgarian artists received 200 BGN. pension. Everyone was miserable. Big artists and artists used to make humiliating old age. I was the man who, with Minister Totyu Mladenov, made life prizes so that we would not humiliate these people as heroes of the Bulgarian people to receive these 700 BGN. They weren't there either. Guys, don't! You're vulnerable! Why haven't you done it all these years since 1990?! You've been in power many times! Why didn't you? I did it! Is that what you're gonna blame me for not taking care of?! Today I say: do not humiliate the Bulgarian Parliament. I'm ashamed to be an MP. I'm telling you frankly! Whatever I am, I'm a responsible man and I don't want people with bigger salaries spitting on me for 3,500 levs tomorrow. Is that what I've earned with my responsibility? All day long, all of us being spit, humiliated and insulted?! How do you want us to raise that authority?! Is that the whole problem? That we're the lowest-paid MPs?! And I have to be responsible to an entire nation! Eat frogs, as the Bulgarian people say. Please, it is good to end this shameful debate, because the debate has become unnecessary. Go to elections with dignity. If a man is a tankman, he doesn't have to go with a roller to war. Arm yourselves all with your party ideologies, I'm a party man, and go out to elections! I went with GERB to elections and won them! In four parliaments, I have become MPs, colleagues, as a joke and as a joke! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't call me come on. Where I've been, your man didn't grow up. In Kardzhali you wanted to win very badly, but you stayed with five thousand votes! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u106	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because I object to giving lines for relaying the messages to the speaker with the main speech. It was unacceptable for colleague Velkov to use the line against academic Rashidov to forward messages to Mr. Tsvetanov. Since Mr. Velkov, although for many years a personnel scout, cannot properly read the reference to the presence, registrations and absences, I stress the following: Mr. Tsvetanov has participated in exactly 300 votes, that is, ten times more than Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u107	To me, Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u108	I also clarify because I abstained from making a personal explanation of the attack against me by my colleague Baichev, who recommended that I introduce a law to abolish the privatization of Technoimpex.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u109	To me, Mr. Kirilov! I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u110	Madam President, point out that the Bulgarian people very much want to be approached equally in terms of privatisation. Since Mr. Baychev and I have not bought any "impex" either, the Bulgarian people really have reasons to equalize and explore historically back in time. [[Replications of MPs Philip Popov and Georgi Gokov.]] By the way, I repeat that Mr. Tsvetanov gave the motives of our constitutional proposal to Mrs. Ninova to join...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u111	This is not the way to lead, Mr. Kirilov! I'm making a note. [[National Representative Todor Bajchev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] It was a procedure in the manner of conduct. There is no personal explanation for the procedure in the manner of conduct. What is your procedure, in the manner of conduct? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u112	Yes, it is my procedure that you do not let Mr. Kirilov manipulate the public and the National Assembly about the bills that have been imported. I explicitly stressed that if he wishes, as you of GERB supported the DPS in terms of retroactivity, I hope that the DPS will return your gesture and support a retroactivity in terms of the Technoimpex.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u113	Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Kirilov are talking about this subject outside the room! [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Mr. Velkov, enough with the way you're driving! [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov again insists on a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] All right, let's hear it. Let's hear your wits too!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u114	Thank you, Madam President, for your kind treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u115	Always to you, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u116	Thank you. I have nothing against what you and Mr. Kirilov say, but I'm surprised you allow false allegations to be made. My data was not correct! Here, I present to you, Madam President, official data from the website of the National Assembly, where it says: Here you go. [[Gives her the reference.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u117	For respectable reasons. Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I'll put the draft decision to the vote. Since it's not read, I'll read it to you: Project! DECISION amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "tris" is replaced by "two." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The National Assembly is on vacation from 1 August to 31 August. 3. In para. 3 the word "Vacations" is replaced by "Vacation." 4. In para. 4 the words "parliamentary vacations" shall be replaced by "parliamentary vacations." § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135, para. 1 the word "Vacations" is replaced by "Vacation." § 3. In the Financial Rules of the National Assembly budget, art. 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. Members of the National Assembly receive monthly remuneration of BGN 2 976 Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 167 MPs: 66, against 42, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u118	My fellow Members, I would like a re-vote procedure, as there are more Members who have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u119	Revoting procedure. Vote 168 MPs: 65, against 48, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Tsonev. JORDAN TSONEV (DSS): Madam President, I can speak in front of both moving and empty halls. I voted against it because I believe that in no way should this self-destruction be supported, which we have done in this House today. Even the reasons of the importers were for the low quality of the legislation, one of the main reasons why wages and all other things had to be aligned to the low quality. If there is low quality in legislation, it is our duty to raise it, not vice versa, first. Secondly, a large part of the motives were frankly false, and importers know that well, and even more wonderfully, Mrs. Ninova knows that. Ms. Ninova, who, following her party appearances, has not rested a single Saturday and Sunday, should believe that other colleagues of hers are doing the same. The BSP should know that we do not rest on Saturdays and Sundays, but meet the voters and do the part of the work for which we have been chosen. The Bulgarian people should not be misled because they have already been misled enough about our work. I'm not saying that we have no faults, I'm not saying that everything is okay, I'm not saying that Parliament's low rating is not due to our mistakes either. But this approach clearly does not work in this direction. I can't agree to that! When a MP wants to work and work, it is a humiliation to talk about privileges. Where and who has rested 70 days a year?! Give it to me. What you have set up today is a self-destruct procedure that will make a very significant contribution to reducing the rating and for people to think that we really are not working. I strongly disagree with this trend and this statement. Let's get the data out, see who put in how many bills, how many offers who made, what application and what effect they have? Did we hear that today? We didn't hear that. All we heard was nihilism. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]] I absolutely disagree!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL Written answers from: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on two questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Bogdan Botsev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Georgi Dinev, Alexander Matsurev, Stefan Apostolov and Daniela Saveklieva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov. For the period 27 April " 3 May 2018, no new questions have been received. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, will be the first to respond in parliamentary control. He will answer a question from the MPs Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva, Krasen Georgiev Krastev, Dimitar Glauchev and Evgenia Angelova about what the Ministry of Finance has achieved to reduce the administrative burden. Here you are, Mr. Krastev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, providing quality service and facilitating citizens in fulfilling their duties are the leading priorities of the Bulgarian government, including the Ministry of Finance. Promoting e-services among businesses and citizens leads to a significant increase in their use by significantly reducing the cost of both customers and administration. All this increases the quality of service, stimulates voluntary implementation and increases tax collection and social security contributions. Dear Minister, please answer the following questions: what is the policy of the Ministry of Finance to expand the scope of services electronically? What new electronic services offers and plans to introduce the Ministry of Finance and Secondary Officers with a budget to the Minister of Finance in the context of the implementation of the complex administrative services of Bulgarian citizens and businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. For an answer, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Krastev, colleagues, I fully accept your thesis that quality service to citizens and businesses can only be achieved by expanding the range of services electronically. This is what we are doing, I think, successfully in the Ministry of Finance and secondary officers with a budget to the Minister of Finance, and not only since the beginning of this government's mandate. The measures we take are complex and targeted. I will try to get you to know what has been achieved so far within the limited time. Within the limits of the powers of the Minister of Finance were proposed and adopted by the National Assembly regulatory changes aimed at extending the scope of services provided electronically. The amendments adopted to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall specify the provision of art. 87, para. 11, which is regulated that, for the purposes of complex administrative services, competent authorities and other legal persons require and receive by electronic means from the National Revenue Agency, the Customs Agency and the municipalities information about the presence or absence of obligations of persons. The initiated change to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees when carrying out periodic tests for the technicality of motor vehicles regulates the possibility of checking for paid vehicle tax through access to automated information exchange systems. The Ministry of Finance is in the process of completing the Ministry of Interior data exchange service with notaries with the possibility of automatic verification of paid local tax when performing a vehicle transaction. The amendments to the Value Added Tax Act provide for the application of voluntary VAT registration through the Registry Agency at the same time as the application for entry of initial registration in the Commercial Register. It is also intended to be provided by electronic means and to waive the requirement where the application for registration under the Value Added Tax Act is submitted by a lawyer to present a notary certified power of attorney. With changes to the Ordinance on documents necessary for issuing licenses under the Gambling Act, the State Gaming Commission is tasked with collecting information from other institutions on the application for authorisation and/or changes in the circumstances of a license already issued. Income administrations and the National Revenue Agency are constantly increasing and improving their electronic services. They are accessible with a personal identification code issued free of charge by the National Revenue Agency, with a qualified electronic signature and free access. Since 1 January 2018, 5 new electronic services have been implemented in the National Revenue Agency and another 15 are expected to be implemented and implemented by the end of the year. As of 1 February 2018, the National Revenue Agency also launched a reception of payments with debit and credit cards for public liabilities through a physical and virtual post terminal. For card payments made citizens and business representatives do not owe translation fees and after the transaction can receive immediate information about the current amount of their duties, as well as a certificate of absence. The number of municipalities joining the possibility of electronic submission of declarations under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for Owned Vehicles is also increased through the electronic portal of the National Revenue Agency. The National Revenue Agency also interacts with other state institutions by exchanging information with them electronically. Provides access to the registers of administrative authorities through linked registers: a register of debtors with a reference to the existence or absence of obligations and a register of notifications of the conclusion, amendment or termination of employment contracts and notifications of change of employer by reference to the conclusion, amendment or termination of employment contracts and notifications of change of employer. So far, on the basis of applications for inclusion to registers administered by the National Revenue Agency, 30 state and municipal bodies have been granted access. At the same time, there is a process of developing new electronic services intended for other administrations and new bilateral agreements are concluded with them on access to e-services that are provided through a personal identification code issued by the National Revenue Agency. For example, a Central Depository by means of a personal identification code provides natural persons with a reference for ownership of shares, including acquired as a result of mass privatisation. The Department of Customs is expanding the scope of the services by electronic means, which are described in the Sectoral Strategy for Development of Electronic Governance and Road Map for its implementation. - Phase one. Upon successful completion of the project, improved services and registers will be implemented, which will reduce the administrative burden and facilitate doing business. Currently, they have been studied: Register "Unified registration of e-Commercial Traders with the Office of the Customs and the European Commission", Register of Customs Representation, as well as Register of the Unified Registration and Identification of Economic Operators In addition, the Customs Agency has developed a number of electronic administrative services that are in transactation mode, i.e. their systems communicate and no administrative act is required, and no payment is required for this. I will mention some of them: registration of electronic communications traders with the The Public Procurement Agency is currently building a national electronic web-based platform. The centralized automated electronic system will provide three electronic administrative services: publication of notices prepared according to established templates; official forwarding of notices established through a system for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union via the service......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The functionality foreseen for the first stage of construction is expected to be realized by the end of October 2018. Central Depository. Electronic services for issuers: Through the electronic platform of the Depository companies submit: documents for registration of emissions without available financial instruments; documents for registration of changes in capital; registration of a security report, transformations of companies and other corporate actions; receive extracts from stockbooks for general meetings and other references from the register. The Central Depository platform shall also pay dividends and interest payments and principals on bond issues and liquidation shares. The central depositary also provides an electronic platform for general meetings, as well as a number of electronic services for investment firms accessible through communications. For the limited time, I tried as hard as I could to give you information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions please, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer to our question. For the specific, I will ask the following question: exactly how many services have been dropped from your officers with a budget in the service of the public?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u127	I can't quote you on an exact count. I can say that there are no services that are not available electronically. The example I can give in this direction is the issue, and it is free of charge only for the last year and a half of 500 thousand personal identification codes issued for the benefit of natural and legal persons with whom they access the information systems of the National Revenue Agency, submit declarations. For example, half of the income tax declarations of natural persons were submitted electronically, predominantly with a personal identification code. Another example that I can give is the extremely successful launch of the payment mechanism through virtual and physical terminals. While still in the test period, at 04:00 a.m. the first transaction was carried out by a Bulgarian citizen who paid his dues during a virtual post. Together with the Bulgarian National Bank, we have created a new mechanism of payments, which will allow other administrations that collect claims from businesses and citizens to be able to participate in this, conditionally speaking, payment channel, so that transactions will be fully free of charge and as quickly as possible, without any obligation for the taxpayer or debtor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. For the treatment of Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the additional answer. I think you've been doing the right thing from the start, and it's all for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. Declaration on behalf of a group Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u131	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year of government is a good reason for assessing and basic conclusions, as well as looking ahead. Usually the first year is an indicator of keeping election promises and the implementation of political programmes with which political entities win elections. If it were normal, we could follow up on the implementation and make a corresponding reckoning, but in this case we have rather a government of depreciation of election promises and such a reckoning is impossible. From the first day we warned the main political entity GERB about the wrong formula of government. The Mantra has wished that the people have long lost their meaning and the repetition will not return its meaning, as it was originally built on fraudulent ones. Thus, we have a collection of empty promises and pure populism combined with a language of hatred and opposition. Our warnings from the first moment are to the main political entity about their responsibility for the management of the country and the situation of the Bulgarian citizens. No reform has happened and there is no idea to happen in such a need for reforming in all sectors in the social sphere, health, education, science, the economy and so on. Neither election promises happen, nor the necessary reforms, nor the improvement of the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens. As an opposition we could observe and make assessments, but the responsibility we bear in front of all Bulgarian citizens obliges us to be active and to counteract any inaction, any attempt to replace the important topics for the Bulgarian society, as well as any attempt to discredit democracy and divert from the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country. GERB does not change, but replaces, GERB introduces double standards, GERB tries to legitimize populism and xenophobia, to make them part of state policy. These features are designed most strongly in their coalition policy. Just a few days ago in Pristina, the prime minister said that the European Union will look at the region with different eyes if we solve our own problems. While GERB lawyers its coalition partners, puts democracy and European values at risk, as well as the positions of a loyal partner in the Euro-Atlantic alliances in which we are a member. This position of the prime minister has also been reaffirmed at the meeting of the President of the European Council with the leaders of the countries of the "Bardo-Brioni" Process in Skopje. The Prime Minister urged the people living in the region and their leaders not to be misled by populists and nationalists. In the Western Balkans you can't, in Bulgaria you can. We say: There can be no peace and prosperity anywhere if people and their leaders are misled by populists and nationalists and we call on both the Prime Minister and GERB and BSP and all national responsible parties not to be misled by populism and nationalism. The Bulgarian ethnic model is the one in Bulgaria that guarantees the peaceful transition, this is the model that we can offer in the Balkans, and in our assessment of the Balkans, we are all categorical and without stable Balkans there is no stability and security in Europe. This thesis also requires adequate behavior. In the State Department's report on Bulgaria for previous years, as well as in the OSCE election monitoring reports, there is a warning about a hate speech, about manifestations of racist and xenophobic views, their carriers are pointed out, but the same politicians were most irresponsiblely involved in the government. There is no clearer warning than the use of a hate language, especially I quote: "In elections, it has become a universal form of expression not only among xenophobic politicians, but also among commentators in the media and social networks. A quote from the State Department report for 2016. Therefore, there is no way that the 2017 report does not contain the relevant assessment moments, because any warning should be a reason to seek and find solutions. Nevertheless, the DPS as a liberal party at no time forgot its responsibility for the peace and the future of the country and remains a guarantor for the successful implementation of priority issues for society and the state. Certainly the most significant political event in this period is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Realizing that this is a chance to be proactive for a better Europe, stronger, more secure, the DPS continues to be actively involved in this process, including through all the liberal parties in the European Union and beyond, as well as through their representatives in the leadership of the countries and the European institutions. Two thirds of the Presidency period have passed, but the expected results are missing. Here is the place to emphasise that the parliamentary dimension has achieved one such result in the security and defence sector, but this is not enough. There is still time, not just organizational-technically, our country to deal with the Presidency, but to make the Presidency successful, so that it does not turn out to be possible, not because of, but despite the government. This finding is not only relevant for the European Presidency. The rulers cannot show real results and management vision, so they traditionally use anti-democratic measures, institutional confrontation and personal attacks. We are not supporters of the slogan who is guilty of the position of helpless observers, because we are on the basis of what to do, when and how we are producing policies, programs and strategies, building capacity. Our supporters in this process are both the active and free citizens who have the knowledge and will to participate in the formation of management decisions and in their realization. We are working actively for new models, for strengthening European values and for irreversible democratic processes and the Euro-Atlantic orientation of our country. The DPS uses every opportunity to implement the country's important priorities. Pretty soon in Bulgaria we welcomed about 300 delegates, members of 63 liberal parties, headed by the Presidents of ALDE and the Liberal International. At this high forum, the European liberal family gave its strong support on the most important topics for Bulgaria and the DPS received a high appreciation for what it does for democracy and for Bulgaria and Europe. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The efforts of any individual party are not enough without the unification of all systemic parties with a common goal to turn the region into a secure zone free of nationalists and populists to irreversibly democratic processes, for stability and security, for economic growth, for ensuring human dignity, the rights and freedoms of European citizens. We will not save our efforts for a better and prosperous, strong and united, peaceful Europe. This is what we call all nationally responsible parties and the government of Bulgaria. It's never too late to get back in the way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB "Please come in, Mr. Tsvetanov."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed today we have one year from the management of the cabinet Borisov 3. Each person can make his own account with a parliamentary dimension, as well as with the commitment to fulfilling election promises made in the election period before the early parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017. It is extremely important to me that the achieved parliamentary consensus on important national topics can be encouraged by all parliamentary groups, but here, of course, we also need to take account that there was a lot of intent in order to decrime both our country and the administration of the cabinet Borisov 3. I would like to state categorically that, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, we support and will continue to support the parliamentary majority, which fulfils its commitment to the approved management programme for the four-year term. Today, we can take into account results related to the commitments that have been made and approved by the Coalition Council and, of course, by the parliamentary majority on the implementation of sectoral policies. Here, of course, we need to take into account what we made as a commitment and what was actually fulfilled in the first half of the current management mandate: an increase in pensions with two steps from 160 to 180 and 200 BGN. for the minimum pension, and we believe that at present this is not fair because the other pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners have not been recalculated, but these are the opportunities and these are the real steps that can actually meet today's management mandate. What is extremely important to know is that we have put a serious emphasis on education, because we know that today, when a monthly reduction in unemployment in the country, which is already below 6.2%, means that we have a shortage of qualified labour and we really need to increase the professionalism of all these adolescents. What is extremely important and was undertaken as a commitment by the government is to be able in the sector "Education" to lay down more financial parameters that can actually lead to an increase in the salaries of the Bulgarian teachers for the first year by 17%, but also to fulfill our commitment in the four-year management mandate for the double salary increase at the time of the management mandate, which started a year ago. Here we have to say that with the policy that has been made by the government and with the commitment of all institutions for the first time we have a mechanism that coordinates absolutely all the institutions that are relevant for bringing the children back to the education system, those who, years ago in one form or another, did not find their place in schools. Here I would especially like to thank both ministers who are present at today's parliamentary control, because a small part of the policies that have been implemented so far are going right through the departments for which they are responsible. Let us recall that what has been made as a commitment, we are fulfilling it on the basis of economic growth, which has been reported for 2017. "3.9%," and we see the European Commission's estimates for 2018 and 2019, which, of course, makes it possible for the government to increase the costs it makes under policies that will lead to the country's gross domestic product increase. Let us recall that this year's budget is based on 100 billion of gross domestic product, which is a great merit of the efforts of all institutions and of all parliamentary groups that have participated in this process. Here, of course, we must also take into account what our country has taken as a challenge, on the basis of Britain's decision to leave the European Union, we have all seen that we should have created better conditions for the first time since our accession to the European Union, to the Presidency of the European Union. Let us be objective because I believe that the Presidency is not only an assessment which can be given by the opposition in the face of the Bulgarian left, but the Presidency is an assessment which is obtained by both the Bulgarian society and also by the Member States of the European Union. Let us remember what are the assessments of all European political families and of the European Socialists and ALDE, as well as of the European People's Party. All participants in the events so far have given an extremely high appreciation for the productivity and for the objectives that are being implemented in this 6-month Presidency. Let us note, however, that, in the parliamentary dimension, as was also taken into account by the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the procedural rules for the establishment of the joint parliamentary control group on Europol were actually adopted in Bulgaria. Just to remind you that today there was a Europol Management Board, which was able for the first time to participate a representative of the new Joint Parliamentary Control Group and to be able to build the technology and mechanism for parliamentary control that needs to be carried out. I believe that this is due to all MPs from Bulgaria who participated. Here, of course, there was a representative from the left, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the President of the Commission for Control of Services and I, as President of the Internal Commission. Thank you, colleagues, for what we have achieved, because today's Governing Council meeting talked about the procedural rules that were adopted in Sofia in March 2018. Of course, the Presidency has given us the opportunity to bring out another accent, which is extremely important for our country - these are the Western Balkans. What we have done in the Bulgarian Parliament and what the government has done is actually to improve communication and political dialogue between Macedonia and Bulgaria. Each of us knows that at the moment the biggest challenge for the Presidency in its second part is the forthcoming summit on 17 May. I am convinced that the assessment that will be given by European leaders, by all the political families that govern the Member States concerned, will actually be solidarity with what we are talking about today and with what colleagues have done so far. We had the opportunity to hear about the progress and the interim report on the European Presidency by Minister Lilyana Pavlova in the past week. I would like to share with you that we are very impressed by yesterday's hearing by Minister Nankov, who gave the opportunity to talk about the objective results achieved by the management mandate, not to bet on the false news, on the populism we observe daily. We can also take into account, as a good result, the created Commission for Planes in the Bulgarian Parliament, because we know that the cabinet made one decision by which it wanted to oblige all subsequent governments to fulfil a commitment which we did not think was correct and was not objectively assessed. This is precisely what has shown that parliamentaryism is stronger and indeed the Republic of Bulgaria is a parliamentary state. We all need to work for this transparency and for what society wants from us. We have managed to bring out the whole truth about the procedures that have been going on so far and to be able to return things to the executive power, which will once again introduce us to all the details of re-arming and the decision that the Bulgarian Parliament must take so that we can know that re-arming will be in line with our country's commitments as a member of NATO. There's a lot of themes. And what has been found here by colleague Karadayi, that some of our coalition partners have a position that does not correspond to the foreign policy of the country and the government. Here I want to make it very clear that we have a coalition agreement, we have an established management program that is being implemented, and there we have absolutely no debate with our coalition partners. Of course, things that are not recorded in the coalition agreement remain as an opportunity for coalition partners to have their policy and their speech. But here I would like to emphasise that my colleague Volen Siderov, who expressed a position for the European Union and the way in which it should work, is that he is not an expressor of the foreign policy of the government. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here I can clearly say that a foreign policy expressor is the president of the country, who very clearly in some of his messages positioned our country in another orbit. Here, let us also highlight his New Year's speech in an address to the nation, when he did not for a moment say about the upcoming Presidency and the strong and united European Union. Let us recall his yesterday's press conference with the Austrian President, where you saw that he paid more attention to his upcoming visit to Russia, but there was no talk about the progress and the results achieved in the Bulgarian Presidency by the government of Boyko Borisov, the cabinet ministers Borisov 3 and all that we do daily as efforts so that we can show that our country is a true Euro-Atlantic partner and we will remain both in NATO and in the European Union. The BSP colleagues, of course, have a right. Everyone has a different opinion, but because I see that in the last few days and they express their strong support that NATO and the European Union do not stand on the agenda for them because they have made their choice, I would just like to ask them to validate those decisions that have been made by their previous BSP guides and decisions that they have taken at the management level in the government of the state. [[The President signals that time has expired. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wish the government good luck, I wish the ministers good luck! I am convinced that what the finance minister reported to reduce public debt from 29% to 25%, what is committed, is that at the end of the management term, this government debt could be 20%. This is economic growth and these are real policies that reach people and actually develop our country as a full member of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Mrs. Ninova, for a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! One year of the government Borisov 3. Undoubtedly one of the most important priorities is the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. The evaluation of this Presidency will be given after its completion, because some of the most important meetings and the most important decisions are ahead. For us the management of the cabinet Borisov 3 this year has several images. First, instability of the ruling coalition. A year ago, we said that this government is not a coalition for policies, but a group of interests. That's how you proved this in a year. As early as September 2017, Valeri Simeonov said: The local assignments are partisan. GERB is pressing us to appoint ladybugs in power. Mr. Siderov for Mr. Tsvetanov: The Bulgarian Language Need, the changes in the KEWRC are not important for the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB, he diverted the important topics. We are not in power to solve the problems of an oligarch. I very much like the former communists from the Ministry of Interior to think about the communist language of Mr. Siderov. Accordingly, Mr. Tsvetanov: We are different from Volen Siderov's position on Crimea. It does not express the policy of the ruling majority. "And more, and I can still bring up such examples, but they prove a serious difference in the ruling coalition on serious topics and policies concerning Bulgaria, Europe and the world. By the way, most often you have been responsible for this one year, over a hundred times, for the question: Is the coalition stable, which in itself shows that it is not stable after this question is asked so often. Secondly, more dangerous policy instability. I'm going to start with what you said earlier. Your whole idea of reviewing the transition ended with a single goal of using people's desire for justice and retribution, pointing it to the leader of the opposition, but the moment you heard that we wanted a review of the transition of Sibbank and Tsvetelina Borislavova, the BTC, the Kremiksovtsi, when we delivered the sentence: the Mutters that were in the................................................................................and the move.... and the move and the move and the transitioning from the modern power and the move.................................................................................................................... So much for your consistent justice and retribution policy. Four times you voted not to grant funds for new oncological formulas and the fifth on-order, you voted back. It's consistent, isn't it?! Two months you have convinced us that the Istanbul Convention is the most European act in the world. I heard from Mr. Borisov this morning that the problem is not the content, but the bad explanation, that is to expect that you will bring it back soon. It's consistent, isn't it?! You voted against the money for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, against money for the police, against money for teachers, people with disabilities, then provided it, but not in the legal way through the budget, but by the personal will of the Prime Minister. It's also consistent, isn't it?! I can continue with many such examples, I will not have enough time, but so, honourable fellow governors, uncertainty is born in people, in business, in investors with this policy one step forward two backwards, in which there is really no policy. That's where Adhok is operating and under pressure from the public tensions. Just a few examples will be given in that style that I like, to your program: I promise you, because there is also no time for the whole. Promised: limiting negative demographic trends and reducing population numbers. What's done? For one year, according to NSI data, in the management of GERB and patriots, 31 586 Bulgarian citizens have moved from the country. Write it in the "unfulfilled" section. Next. Sustainable increase in pensioners' incomes, again according to the NSI, 60% of pensioners for this one year receive income below the poverty line. Guarantee the rights of children, guarantee the rights of people with disabilities and promised but not implemented and not implemented Law on child and family, improving the systems of medical expertise of workability, Law on social services. Instead, a promise in the program is made by people with strollers and crutches who stand before parliament and are not allowed to enter here. Also unfulfilled. Sustainable growth in incomes and increasing living standards. For this year again official statistics, each day the workers of the poor increase by 97 people, or for this year by 35 405 people. This is how people's incomes are steadily increased and poverty is avoided. Of course, I can continue with these assessments, but it is best, I think, and Mr. Tsvetanov said it, to see the assessments from the outside of the third and independent institutions, of this situation. And they are: the State Department of the United States of America: corruption, human rights forfeiture, lack of freedom of speech, between 10 and 16% of the votes in the last European elections were bought or manipulated. Imagine in European how much you buy and manipulate, but what will be in national?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u136	Then you ruled!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u137	U.S. State Department quote! The Guardian: Bulgaria is the poorest and most corrupt country in the European Union. The country's biggest harm is corruption and the weakness of the rule of law and so on. Perhaps the most important report of the European Commission on Bulgaria's assessment for this year. And it is: the levels of poverty and inequality remain extremely high. The social protection system is insufficient to deal with acute social problems. The percentage of the population living in poverty and social exclusion is among the highest in the European Union. The guaranteed minimum income is the lowest in the European Union. The Demographic crisis is causing problems and effective management solutions are not available. This is the independent external assessment of authoritative European and international institutions and publications. The next thing we think is that it is the emblem of this government for the year is hatred and aggression - all that is not GERB is bad. She expressed herself, including earlier, in aggression against President Radev, who crossed the borders on direct accusations of treason, betrayal and espionage, with the sentence, to quote it precisely: Rumen Radev definitely serves foreign interests but does not defend national interests. This is a war of institutions, fellow Members! Hate was also against the opposition. "Go to Siberia........................................ because you are not GERB and you are different. The worst, however, was the hatred and aggression that you spilled on the protesters Bulgarians. Again, quotes by GERB MPs: "Protests for main road E-79 are manipulated. The other protests of the pensioners are paid protests. The other women with disabilities: they drive them by buses. " To get back to the cynical, which I mentioned, standing before parliament. By the way, for this year over 35 different protests in 12 months. Doesn't that mean anything to you?! To different teachers, doctors, firefighters, policemen, everything. Doctors are boiling in health care. From this you should be lit a lamp how society appreciates you for this year. The next emblematic image for this department this year is the theft. It started with the scandal in the National Palace of Culture, Haskovogate, Coumgate, Mayors, Deputy Minister of Transport with accusations, prosecutorial investigations for the fence, transfer of companies for non-payment of VAT by GERB MPs, CEZ So, could it have been different? We from BSP for Bulgaria and we had a choice, honourable colleagues and Bulgarian citizens, and you know it very well. We had a choice to either be part of this management or try to offer an alternative. Yes, and soon there was even confirmation from the Prime Minister of the proposal to us. We chose to be an alternative. Please allow me the increase that Mr. Tsvetanov uses by three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u138	I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u139	And this alternative, however you claim that it was not there this year, had you heard the opposition's voice and accepted what we were proposing, it would have looked like this: updating the basic monthly remuneration of the lowest job for security employees from 380 to 420; repaying the debts of public municipal hospitals; increasing the capacity of the Bulgarian Insurance Agency; introducing 50 BGN. to a child per month from the due tax reduced to a family to help working parents; deduction of interest on loans to young people and students; extension of the aid to children, instead of only for the first time for the second, third and fourth grade; extension of energy aid; updating of all pensions; reduction of the difference between the old and newly granted and a number of measures in the economy that would have provided funds for this. Dear colleagues, it would have cost us 1 billion. 600 million. this BSP programme, which represents 31 bills submitted by 80 MPs from BSP. If you had also heard certain groups of people in Bulgaria, today they would have looked differently and felt differently and lived differently. I say $1 billion. 600 BGN because you were attacking us, that we would blow the budget if we did all this. To note that Mr. Goranov is here, the government spent last year out of the budget that we have voted, almost as much as a billion and a half. Anybody feel where that billion and a half went?! These were real policies that turned to the people we were going to help them with. As much as you claim, both political scientists and sociologists and speakers, there is no alternative to there. You didn't appreciate her for one year. It remains to be relied on by Bulgarian citizens that they will appreciate it when the time comes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Honourable Members, we are continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Evgenia Angelova and Dimitar Glauchev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on the ongoing implementation of the budget for the first three months of 2018. Mrs. Angelova, are you going to ask the question? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers! Mr. Minister Goranov, I would like to draw your attention to the parameters for the current implementation of the budget as of the first quarter of 2018. My question is dictated by Bulgaria's continuing strong fiscal performance in 2017, when a positive budget balance has been recorded again under the consolidated financial programme for the year. Thanks to the proposed developments on major macroeconomic indicators, the solid fiscal position and assessing the implementation of specific recommendations in the areas of imbalances, in early March the European Commission removed Bulgaria from the group of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances. Bulgaria's strong fiscal performance was also appreciated in the regular reports of rating agencies, two of which increased the long-term credit rating in foreign and local currency. All these positive consequences of the fiscal policy being conducted raise the issue of the current parameters for the implementation of the budget. In this regard, it is also my question to you. Please briefly present the current budget implementation parameters as of the first quarter of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova and Angelova, Mr. Glauchev, received revenue and aid under the controlled fiscal programme for the first three months of 2018 amounted to 9 billion 219 million, representing 24.1% of the annual estimates. Compared with the same period of the previous year, tax and non-tax revenues increased by 621 million or 7.3 percent, while income from aid was lower. The parameters for the implementation of the basic taxes and social contributions are good, with forecasts currently giving reason to expect that the parameters laid down in the estimate for the year in the part of the tax revenue can be achieved. In order to maintain the positive trends of the past few months, a small excess of the annual targets can be expected. For the good parameters reported for the implementation of tax and insurance revenues at present, the main contribution is the sustainable economic growth achieved in the last two years, as well as the positive results of the implementation of the Single National Strategy for raising revenue collection, reducing the shady economy and reducing the costs of compliance with legislation. The fiscal effects of these measures are clearly seen in the parameters for the implementation of revenue. It is therefore essential that these measures continue to be applied systematically and further developed, which has a disciplinary effect and retains the positive trends of the last two years in the medium horizon. The cost of the consolidated fiscal programme for the same period amounted to 8 billion 626 million, representing 21.9 percent of the annual estimates. The implementation of expenditure is currently evolving according to estimates for the period, with expenditure traditionally lower than those for the second half due to the construction season and the concentration of significant capital expenditure in the last two quarters. On the other hand, compared to the previous year, growth in certain cost elements, mainly investment costs, social costs, personnel costs, is reported. The positive is that, unlike the previous year, when capital expenditure and capital transfers for the first quarter were low, this year shows a significant growth of this indicator of 64 percent compared to the first quarter of 2017. Staff costs are mainly increased in relation to the implementation of the priority of the government programme for the gradual increase in remuneration of pedagogical staff in the secondary education system, as well as due to the envisaged increase in salaries in other sectors and systems laid down in the law. In the case of social expenditure, the highest growth compared to the previous year is reported for pension expenditure due to the basic effect of their increase from July 2017 and the two-step increase in July and October 2017 of the minimum pension amount. The consolidated fiscal programme balance on a cash-based basis at the end of March is positive at a rate of 592.7 million, or around 0.6 percent of the estimated gross domestic product. It is formed from an surplus on the national budget of 880 million and a deficit on European funds of 287,6 million. Given the specifics of the tax calendar, as well as the shift of part of revenue in the part of corporate taxes of March and April, as the last period for the payment of corporate tax fell in April, the preliminary forecasts in April show that the KFP balance continues to take into account improvements, with an estimated over-cost excess of around 1.3 billion over the first four months of the year representing 1,3 billion of the estimated domestic product. In summary of the foregoing, I would point out that the implementation of the budget for the first three months of 2018 gives confidence that the fiscal targets set for the year are achievable. Another important element of fiscal policy is a consistent reduction in government debt. The improvement achieved in the budgetary position and the excess of revenue over the expenditures over the last two years allows the public debt to decrease nominally by about 2.2 billion and by the end of 2017. The consolidated debt of the sector of the government at the end of 2016 amounted to 25.4 per cent of GDP at 29 per cent at the end of 2016. On the basis of preliminary estimates of the dynamics of the consolidated debt level of the sector, the government in 2018 is expected to decrease its share against GDP in each of the years, with around 19.4 per cent of GDP at the end of 2021. I'm not gonna use the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u144	That's why I left you, Minister, to finish the answer. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u145	Thank you, Minister Goranov, for an extremely comprehensive and detailed response "the next positive sign of everything you have pointed out as data on good development, good and sustainable economic growth, as you noted, the expected increase in annual targets, some increase, the improved collection of revenue agencies and the confidence you expressed in achieving the fiscal targets set. Thanks again for your answer. It shows that your administration is actually doing extremely well. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. We move on to the next question to Minister Vladislav Goranov, he is from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev and is about the imposition of precautionary measures in accordance with art. 121a by the authorities managing fiscal control of the Central Management of the National Revenue Agency. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! According to my information, at present there is a practice of the authorities exercising fiscal control to the Central Management of the NRA for issuing protocols with which they are seized. The owners of the seized goods are informed that if they do not pay 30% of their value as collateral, they will be confiscated for the benefit of the State. According to the unambiguous provision of art. 121a of the DPCs such actions are entirely within the competence of public contractors to the respective territorial directorates of the NRA and the authorities exercising fiscal control are obliged to request the imposition of the safeguard measures from them. Thus, they interpret the legal provision and administrative courts throughout the country. In the practice of the NRA, it is apparent that unjustified precautionary measures are also imposed on companies which are correct taxpayers with established market positions and possessing significant property. Thus, the actions of the fiscal control authorities, which consist of collecting amounts of business in the form of collateral, are often repealed by the courts as unlawful. As a result, the NRA has repeatedly been ordered to pay the costs incurred by the persons concerned in the proceedings. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: In the event that a person withdraws in judicial order the actions of the fiscal control authorities, does that person continue to be subject to protective measures contrary to the judicial order? Do you find such practice normal? Why the authorities exercising fiscal control ignore the many judgmental definitions of administrative courts and continue independently without informing a public contractor to impose precautionary measures pursuant to art. 121a from D.O.D.K.? What is the amount at the present time of the cash collateral collected by the NRA under art. 121a from D.O.D.K.? What part of the cash collateral collected by the NRA under art. 121a of the PDK subsequently returned to the taxpayers, and by what time does this happen on average? Is there a legal procedure by which the collateral in question is returned, or is this done by subjective assessment of the revenue authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, several times you quoted art. 121a as a DODK norm, but it has different paragraphs, and that is what we are going to talk about right now. According to the provision of art. 12, para. 2, p. 9 of the DPK Revenue Authority, which is authorised to carry out fiscal control over the movement of goods at high fiscal risk, except for the powers under art. 12, para. 1 shall also have the power to request security under the conditions set out in the Code. And now for art. 121a. In para. 1 when carrying out fiscal control over the movement of goods with high fiscal risk, the revenue body may ask the public contractor to impose preliminary safeguard measures on the property of the recipient of the goods in order to secure the claims for taxes which would arise not less than 30 percent of the market value of the goods in the cases specifically listed in the DPC............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 121a, para. 1 and para. 2. However, you are also empowered on the basis of art. 121a, para. The revenue authority shall also take action under Art. 3. 40 of the Code for the freezing of evidence with a duration of up to 72 hours without the court's permission, and the goods and documents thereof shall be seized. In this case, the goods shall be released after a security is provided in cash or unconditional and irrevocable bank guarantee with a duration of not less than 6 months at a rate of 30 per cent of its market value and after payment of the borrowing and storage costs. In the light of those provisions, the imposition of ex ante precautionary measures by a public contractor is not mandatory but may be carried out after a request by the revenue body in carrying out fiscal control in the event of a reasoned assessment of the need for the guarantee. The main point in this assessment is not to unduly impede the commercial activity of the person while creating the necessary guarantees for the recovery of public liabilities. In the law, in the case of the DCC, the order of appeal is laid down for the acts before the territorial director, which shall be given a reasoned decision within one day of the appeal. The decision of the territorial director shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court, which shall be ruled by a definition which shall be final. In the event that the court revokes the freezing of evidence or the freezing of collateral in cash or an irrevocable bank guarantee, the territorial director shall arrange for an electronic transmission of a scanned copy of the decision or the definition of the administrative court of the relevant competent authority for the execution of the judicial act which recovers the amount of the person provided by it as collateral. It would also be illegal if you had evidence of such a practice refer us to the authorities of the NRA that they would not execute a judicial act in force. Following an analysis of the case-law on the interpretation of art. 121a by the NRA has made a proposal to the Minister of Finance and we intend to initiate a legislative change in art. 121a, para. 5 to supplement with a view to making it even more clear that we have two different hypotheses and two different powers of the revenue authorities. The collateral imposed as a result of the control actions of the revenue bodies of the Directorate-General for Financial Control from the beginning of its existence from 2014 until now amounts to 42 million. 510,000. BGN 155, of which 28 million have been recovered and/or intercepted at present. 811 thousand. BGN 128. The average recovery period of the collateral imposed shall be 52 days from the date of their imposition. I hope I covered a lot of the issues that were addressed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! From your answer, I remain convinced that you find the practice normal. That's why it was one of the questions I asked you. I would like to ask you, however, to comment on the results of the caselaw that has been imposed on this issue. At present, I believe that a really solid caselaw has accumulated, which assumes that the protocols in question, which recall the goods, have been issued by an incompetent authority and are therefore null and void administrative acts. This is an essential discrepancy between the spirit and the meaning of the law and its application in practice. Yeah, I'm talking about art. 121a, para. 1 of the D.O.D.C. It would not be far-reaching to say that the incorrect interpretation and application of the provision in question under art. 121a, para. 1 has a serious negative impact on the business climate as a whole. Especially in combination with recent television reports, disclosures of a large-scale scheme of extortion and corruption by senior NRA officials, as well as the practice of the NRA which became known at the end of last year to impose tax revisions on accounting houses, lawyers and law firms that provided legal services to sanctioned companies and even to judges who revoked orders from tax authorities. The administrative courts throughout the country have pronounced hundreds of times how to interpret and apply that provision to art. 121a, para. 1 of the D.O.D.C. However, the tax administration is demonstrably continuing to ignore the caselaw. In order to justify the risk of subsequent non-collection of tax liabilities, the revenue authorities shall resort to the so-called "single risk criteria' referred to the tax-related information for a particular company subject to fiscal control. They are developed by the revenue administration itself, notice, for its internal administration purposes, without being regulatoryly regulated in any act, document or made public, to make it clear to the business what it can expect. Such criteria I hear are, for example, trading with risky counterparties, the declaration of VAT for import, which does not correspond to the rate of turnover and others. All the definitions of administrative courts categorically argue that the risk criteria in question do not in any way pose any risk of a difficult recovery of future tax liabilities with a view to carrying out a specific transaction. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I ask: why are these criteria not publicly known, clear and not created with their use in this opaque way a prerequisite for subjectivity in the work of the revenue bodies? Should it not finally be clarified what type of companies may be subject to the precautionary measures in question? What collateral needs, for example, require the seizure of turnover by companies holding sufficient assets and assets in their balance sheets and which can at any time guarantee children's claims for taxes and social security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u152	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Here you are, you have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u153	Certainly and certainly the Constitution obliges us to follow the decisions of the court or at least the rule of law. Undoubtedly and undoubtedly the powers of para. 3 of art. 121a of the DPC allows employees of the "Fiscal control" to take appropriate protective measures with independent, unbundled competence by other revenue bodies. That is why we commented that if there is ambiguity or the independent Bulgarian administrative court so read the law, the executive authority will propose to the legislative authority the completion of the law so that it can be read unambiguously, as is the point. I do not share that revenue administrations are making the business climate worse. When the share of the grey economy in Bulgaria becomes similar to that in Germany, I think the business climate will improve and will not deteriorate. In this sense, I will continue to support the control actions of the NRA and let anyone who is a proper taxpayer complain about incorrect actions. I call! It is no accident that we have undertaken such serious changes in the structure of the National Revenue Agency in recent weeks, because, like any major administration, despite the enormous efforts they make and the good results they report, there are also employees who do not meet the moral standards of this administration. I hope this improves every day, the efforts of the NRA leadership are precisely in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and is about the activities of the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, I am asking this question to you because, in my detailed rules and method of operation, the quoted fund is under the hat of the Ministry of Finance, which to a large extent creates a danger for me to clear up responsibility, as a large part of the spending of the funds under the European funds is in the portfolio of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, but in this case you are responsible for this so-called fund of funds. In particular, what I have drawn up as objectives which have been set by the... from its page and from the documents with which it was created are an opportunity to improve access to financial resources through the effective use of financial instruments with a view to promoting growth and employment and ensuring a more favourable environment for achieving the objectives of the operational programmes; the implementation of effective management of funds forming the Fund and the use of the opportunities of financial instruments to multiply the public resources by mobilising additional private capital; ensuring sustainability for the management of financial instruments meeting the requirements for good corporate governance and conservative approach with regard to the inherent risks; building capacity for managing financial instruments at national level, thereby overcoming Bulgaria's dependence on external expertise in this connection and so on. It's a long time. In this regard, I ask you to answer: does it achieve, in your opinion, if you have made a recommendation, of course, the objectives set up by the Fund manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria and, in particular, the management of financial instruments provided for the implementation of the programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds, such as the Development of Human Resources and Innovations and Competitiveness, the R & D Regions, the Environment, the Rural Development Programme, the Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Programme 2014-2020, as recorded in the Fund's documents? In particular, I ask you to answer me: what part of the funds generated in the Fund have they reached to final beneficiaries? What contracts have been concluded and are they at all concluded with investment firms that should actually transfer these funds to the final beneficiary, I am talking about private in this case, because according to the accounts in the system ISUN, it is evident that in this part the operational programmes have reached the maximum of their implementation? For this reason, we want to really understand what is happening in the Fund Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! I will start by saying that these days there will be a hearing of the management of the Fund Fund in the portfolio committee responsible for the European funds in the Bulgarian Parliament, and there you will be able to ask even more detailed questions related to the activities of the Fund. Financial instruments are a catalyst for growth and employment undoubtedly. They are identified as one of the important tools for achieving the objectives set out in the government's programme. Given the presented vision for the role of the instruments, the specific objectives of the Fund of Funds are also defined, part of which you have cited: improving access to funding for final recipients, which, according to the common understanding, will promote economic growth and employment; achieving sustainable management of financial instruments; mobilizing private capital to achieve the objectives of operational programmes; building capacity for management of financial instruments at national level to overcome Bulgaria's dependence on external expertise. In the period 2016 - 2017 the Fund built its organisational framework and management professional capacity, meeting the European requirements, successfully agreed and concluded financial agreements for the implementation of the instruments under four operational programmes: "Development of human resources and regions in growth", "Environment", "Innovation" and "Competitiveness". Since February this year, the company has already entered into the role of holding fund under the "Jessica" Programme from the previous programming period, taking over the management of funds from the European Investment Bank. An agreement was also concluded with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" for managing the instruments aimed at waste management measures. In summary, the Fund Fund has already adopted and managed a resource exceeding 1 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 11 million. Three hundred and thirty-five thousand. And 600 leva. The Fund's team has developed a strategy for implementing financial instruments, which exceeds 90% of the total resource it manages and has conducted market consultations on instruments for nearly 740 million. lv. At the end of last year, the company successfully signed agreements with the first selected financial intermediaries to provide micro-credits for start-ups to entrepreneurs from vulnerable groups and now 3.4 million are available to final recipients. In connection with the Jessica "Programme" nearly 60 million have already been invested within the programming period and are reinvested with the same objectives. By the beginning of the autumn, the Fund is expected to sign six more agreements with financial instrument intermediaries with resources under the R &amp; D programmes. lv. The selection procedures for these instruments started last year and developed according to the planned operational schedules, with sufficient interest from the private sector. The next months the Fund will provide access to funding for Bulgarian enterprises and municipalities of approximately 513 million, which amount to over half of the resources managed by the Fund. The private investments mobilised and the self-participation of financial intermediaries will likely reach 190 million. lv. taking into account the underlying structure of the instruments. In view of the results achieved, despite the lack of a direct analogue and an example of a working similar model throughout the European Union, I believe that the Fund achieves the successful objectives and practices presented to the company, which are already being set as a successful example at European level. Next week, as I quoted, a hearing of the management team in the Committee on European Affairs can be further developed there. I conclude by saying that undoubtedly from the beginning of the current programming period one approach was to provide all this resource to be managed outside the country and not build such a capacity within the Bulgarian state machine. The decision to build it in my opinion continues to be correct. The paces we're moving with are satisfactory, although they could have been better. For example, public procurement is being appealed, which is within the framework of the Law and the Rules, but I believe that we have made good progress and good pace and 2018 will be the most successful year for the Fund. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Goranov, frankly, I am experiencing a dose of optimism, with which you claim that there has been serious progress in the work of the Fund of Funds, because my question is not by accident to be asked before the Commission meeting, because I wanted to get the opinion of the minister. This issue was dictated by talks with Bulgarian companies who would like and have no access to these funds to date. My conclusion is based on the only official document to date. This is an interim financial statement on the website of the Fund of Funds, not audited, in which it is seen from last year is 30 September, and then nothing has been published that literally there is no work done, only costs of staff maintenance and other administrative expenses are generated. You share now is the middle of 2018 that the rates at which these funds are spent and reach the beneficiaries are extremely low, extremely low to date. This thing puts under the functionality of the Fund and the effectiveness of spending these funds, and this is a signal to you so that you can actually look at what is happening and exercise the necessary control to make the Fund work. Because to date, it does not in any way satisfy what is written and the objectives that are set at the beginning of its creation, and there is generated an extremely high financial resource. You said about 1 billion. 11 million. And 200,000. lv. Yeah, it's an extremely serious amount that stands there and nobody knows why. We will ask our question, which you said, but the situation is more than alarming. The program period is 2014 - 2020, Mr. Minister, and the appeal from the Bulgarian business is to make this resource available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you will not take this opportunity. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Minister. Yes, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u161	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable ministers! I take a procedure in the manner of conduct only to call you to inform the Members who are in the National Assembly, but are not here in the Chamber, with the release of the bell, perhaps they have not understood that they should earn their salaries. Today is precisely the day when parliamentary control is to be exercised, known as the Day of Opposition, on which they exercise control over the executive power, the importers and the importer of the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not in the Chamber today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I will fulfill your offer. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the MPs who are in the couloirs or in the rooms of the parliamentary groups to order in the plenary. Dear MPs, we are continuing with questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. There's a lot of questions for him. The first of them is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov and the National Representative Hairi Sadakov on the need to undertake urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the third-class road Yugovski branch That's the specific area that needs repairs. Who's going to develop the question? Mr. Sadakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We ask the question with associate associate associate Professor Chakarov given the importance not only of this section of the whole route, but the importance of the whole route, which will then become clear. It connects the two districts and the Trakia highway with two very isolated municipalities and Smolyan district. I am saying this thing because this section is a great alternative from the whole road that should be built to connect the road Asenovgrad Smolyan through Chepelare with Lucky and Baths, where we can develop mining industry, industry based on underground and other riches, tourism, peak Svoboda, the entire municipality of Banite are isolated and this is very difficult for them. In this regard, Dear Mr. Nankov, we are addressing you for the extremely poor condition of the third-class road Yugovski branch, Lucky, and all the constituent settlements along the route in the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv district to the border with Smolyan district. You are another Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to whom this question is being asked. When he started asking about this time, his condition was bad, and now, unfortunately, his condition now requires urgent and urgent repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation. Like any high road that is located at high altitude and on a heavily crossed mountain range, this road is difficult and dangerous to pass. The heavy snowfalls during the winter period, the collapse and collapse of huge amounts of land masses on the road and due to the melting of snow during the spring season, the seasonal ruin of the road pavement due to the heavy load create almost annual, daily critical situations and endanger the safety of road users. The minor partial repairs made over the years are extremely insufficient to ensure the safety of the movement and the expansion of the road. In this regard, our question to you is: Is there an urgent and urgent repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation of a third-class road Yugoski branch of Lucky/III.861 (Bachkovo-Hvoyna) in the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv to the border with Smolyan district and, if such provision is made, will there be funds for this, and if it is not foreseen, what are the reasons for the people in Laki municipality to be deprived of normal road communication, and to be exposed to high risk of road accidents, to what project readiness and when we expect the start of repairs? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Sadakov, of course, and Mr. Chakarov, as a collaborator! The third-class road III "3rd-class" is a locality called Zdravets, Rozhen locality (Czepelare-Sololovtsi) with a length of 42 km and 271 m is part of the Republican road network on the territory of two districts: Plovdiv from km 0 to km 31 plus 40, and in Smolyan region from km 31 plus 40 to km 42 plus 971. The road is typical high-mountain with a route of rock profile and is in an excavation with high rock arches and on the side air with non-retaining spills. This characteristic determines the large number of horizontal curves with small radii and serpentines without intended lacquers. The gambarit is variable as in places is very much below the third grade road standard. For the participation in the territory of Plovdiv district in the fourth quarter of 2016, a public contract was held for the award of the design for major repair and partial reconstruction, after which the Road Infrastructure Agency The aim of the project is to translate the path to a suitable gauge, i.e. we will have enlargement, watering and strengthening of the pavements of the road. These activities will be required by providing an additional terrain outside the existing range of the road for which a procedure will be developed and a detailed parcel plan will be developed. Both for any investment intention and for this project, after its development, the Ministry of Environment and Water will decide on the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure, i.e. an assessment of the need for an EIA. The technical project will be developed in two stages. The draft document for the first intermediate phase is submitted to the contracting authority and is to be examined by the Expert and Technical Economic Council. The projector's proposal includes several options for achieving a wider gauge and improving the operational state of the road for which quantitative-value accounts have been developed. According to preliminary data from the projector's calculations, the value of the construction works for the various options is between 39 and 43 million. lv. for complete reconstruction plus expansion, for which it will be necessary, of course, and alienation. The second stage is the development of the actual technical reconstruction and rehabilitation project, which includes the preparation of a detailed development plan, a parcel plan. After the final adoption of the technical project by the contracting entity and approval of the PSU by the competent authority under the request of the Law on Construction in the territory, a complex report will be prepared to assess compliance with the essential requirements for the construction works, including a technical project under Part. After all these procedures have been completed, I am convinced that within this year, the possibility of including the site in the building program of the Road Infrastructure Agency will be considered. I will not read and mention to you what activities and repairs have been carried out back in the years, as you have asked your question: they are palliative, partial, they do not solve the whole project. I am optimistic that we will just complete the statutory procedures under the environmental and spatial legislation that I mentioned and with the entry of the Tol system from the middle of next year there will also be financial resources for the inclusion of the road in the investment programme in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chakarov will use the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, we are somewhat satisfied with the answer we receive in view of what we would like most to be realized by those living both in Lucky Municipality and in neighbouring municipalities. As my colleague Sadakov presented here, this time is important not only for the municipality of Lucky, but for the municipality of Banite and Smolyan. In addition to all the other considerations that have been presented, this time would appear in case of necessity as an alternative to the main road Asenovgrad. It is true that there is another way through Devin, but it is much more surrounded, so this is a real alternative that hopefully does not have to perform such functions. You know very well that this time it was built in the 1950s. You yourself pointed out that it does not meet modern standards, at all standards for third-class road, road network. It is true that since 1988 partial repairs have been carried out, because I know the situation there, from this region I am and I have started my medical activities and practice in this particular municipality, there has been a rehabilitation, but, unfortunately, then I do not know exactly what reasons, especially financial, this rehabilitation and reconstruction has been stopped. The road is busy, and there is also serious business activity in this municipality, especially in Lucky, but this could be extended in view of the communication for Banite Municipality with the other neighbouring municipalities for tourism and investment activity. There are structural-determining enterprises here, such as "Lucky Invest" JSC, there is a knitted factory, there is a very serious business activity that also supports and needs the road to be rebuilt. In addition, during the summer months traveling to the area of Krstova Gora, pilgrims and tourists are at great risk, because this is precisely the period of real growth and movement towards these regions. I hope this is the third time I am asking this question. I am referring to in the third National Assembly, Mr Minister, that the programme that you presented will have a greater specificity. We hope there is also a road map that will calm those living in this region. We cannot fail to welcome the municipality of Lucky, who is in continuous correspondence with the competent institutions to resolve this very serious, important issue for them and for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Minister Nankov, come in, you will take the opportunity to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov! I remain with the conviction and with the confidence rather that this will indeed be the last time and the last national representation in which you ask a question. There are two approaches ahead of us, and I think that in my response I have succeeded, albeit a little more closely, to touch on the substance of the question and how I personally think we approach the state-owned prognosis and planary. By the way, yesterday I was accused by your colleague during the hearing that we are conducting a chaotic, non-planning and non-plaque policy, we are not following any priorities. I'll explain exactly what I mean by using the particular case. One option is, as so far, palatically towel and perform partial repairs. I think it's a practice that neither I nor you can share. The other approach is precisely the planary, the very sustainable, long-term, efficient, and already realistic, as I see from the answer, and also from our concrete actions with the help of Lucky Municipality, which assist us with all the planning procedures, is precisely this: we are starting with the working design, we are talking about extending the gauge to the statutory requirements and we are using the period until we introduce the system, to get all the planning procedures, including the alienation procedures. In 2019, with the introduction of the Tol system, we include the way into our investment programme and its realization begins. I mentioned: the resource is huge, but we have the confidence that within two years of the two budgets 2019 and 2020 of the Road Infrastructure Agency, by completing all the procedures that have been initiated at the moment, we will be able to complete it and make an adequate connection not only between the two municipalities you have mentioned very correctly, but between the two districts. We are also well aware of the fact that it will be used for both good and bad as an alternative to the second-class road connecting Plovdiv and Smolyan region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is asked by MP Georgi Turnovalyski. It refers to the repair of the road city of Plovdiv... the village of Skutare, the municipality of Maritsa. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! At my reception room in the village of Skutare, the municipality of Maritsa was asked about the condition of the road Plovdiv. His condition is bad, there's almost no asphalt, no marking and no lighting. The numerous holes and bumps, some of which with impressive dimensions, are a problem of the daily crossing of the villages from the municipality of Maritsa, as well as the inhabitants of Plovdiv, who work in the industrial area of the town. There hasn't been any repairs in years. The question of who should do it is transferred between the administrations of the municipality of Plovdiv and the municipality of Maritsa. My question to you, Minister, is: whose property is the road? Who is responsible for its maintenance and repair and, if this is the Road Infrastructure Agency, is repair envisaged and when?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u172	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalyski, your question concerns a road section that is really a Republican road.. I answer your question specifically and is therefore not supported by the. The so-called "Rogoshko shose" division is owned by the municipality of Plovdiv and the municipality of Maritsa. After crossing with the second-class road II-56, reaching the village of Skutare is a republican route, the third-class road III-65 Skutare - Manole, which is in a very good transport operation state after the implementation of rehabilitation in 2010 - 2011, funded by the old European Operational Programme at the MRB............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The section near the village of Skutare is about 4 km long and 800 m from it falls in the municipality of Maritsa. She's in good condition. In poor condition is the stretch with a length of about 3 km on the territory of the municipality of Plovdiv, North region. As regards this section, ongoing maintenance actions will not be effective. Complete re-assalization is required. We're talking about major repairs, not ongoing repairs and preventative repairs. The opinion of the experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency, comparing with the renovation of the Republican Road Network, is not that it is their job, but in response to your question, we have made our efforts. The colleagues have examined the section and their expert opinion is that approximately a million and 200 thousand will be needed. lv. for the implementation of the repairs the main repair of these 3 km, which are in really compromised, heavy condition, but are part of the municipal road network of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Turnover, for your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u175	Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply, and thank you for your efforts on the part of the Agency's staff and for the assessment they have made of the necessary repairs. This is a section that connects Plovdiv with the ring road of Plovdiv and the highway of Trakiya. This is one way the guests of the city of Plovdiv will pass as European Capital of Culture 2019. I turn to you because the dissatisfaction of the workers and those who go through this road is very great, it has also been broadcast in the media, but obviously your authority is also needed to support and insist on the municipal authorities, if necessary, and support for financing this road. It's very important because it's really 30 years this time it's in such a state I don't know if you've passed. I believe that a city like Plovdiv does not seem to have such entrance arteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u176	Thank you. You're not taking any attitude? National Representative Georgi Tarnovalyski has asked Minister Nankov another question and he is about the reconstruction of an existing intersection in a circular road II-64 at km 48+728 and road III-06. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u177	Thanks again, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues, again at my reception room, only in the village of Trud, the municipality of Maritsa was asked about the conversion of an existing intersection on the road II-64 Karlovo The request of the residents of the village of Trud and the settlements in the direction of the village of Strevo and the others along that road is to be transformed into a circular one in order to ensure the maintenance of all directions under the relevant conditions for traffic safety. The creation of a circular intersection of the road between the villages of Strohevo and Trud will help prevent road accidents and will facilitate the movement, given that heavy goods vehicles serving the eastern industrial zone of the municipality of Maritsa are currently passing through the village of Trud. According to information from the municipality of Maritsa, on whose territory the intersection is located, there is a prepared project and all alienation procedures have been completed by the end of 2016. The road is part of the Republican road network and its transformation is entirely within the authority of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Despite all the promises that have been made up to this point for two years now, the reconstruction has not been listed as a priority. My question to you is: when from the Road Infrastructure Agency is providing for a reconstruction of the road and is there a means for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u178	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tarnovalyski, the construction of a circular intersection on road II-64 by Karlovo In 2015, an agreement between API and the municipality of Maritsa was concluded in the realization of the site, according to which the municipality should prepare the design documentation and secure the site and API to organize and finance all necessary works for the construction of the intersection. The Director of Regional Road Management Plovdiv is authorised by the Chairman of the Management Board of API to confirm the road documentation prepared by the municipality for the site.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the autumn of 2017, the municipality of Maritsa fulfilled its commitments under the agreement by submitting to the Agency established road documentation, detailed development plan, parcel plan, complex compliance assessment report and donation contract for the following parts of the municipal property. In December 2017, the API submitted to the MRDPB design documentation for the issue of a permit for construction of the site. Meanwhile, the Agency has already prepared, in the past time, the announcement of tender procedures for selecting a contractor for the construction works and, of course, the construction supervision of the site. The procedures are planned to start by the end of May this year. In the event that the selection decisions of a contractor are not appealed, the construction of the roundabout is expected to begin as early as this year, I do not even say the end of May, we will immediately announce the public procurement prepared as a file on Tuesday, Wednesday, on 9 May after the holidays. Funds for the realization of the site are provided, as I mentioned, from the budget provided for million and 100 thousand. BGN, which is the estimated value of our donations from the municipality of Maritsa investment project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Turnover, you have a say in how to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I would withdraw the question if you read what you have answered to colleagues Lazarov and Popov. The only difference in your response is within the period within which the contract will be awarded. In their reply you say: April. Now you're answering me: Maybe. This is what makes residents and users of this crossroads restless because they feel that something is not happening as promised. Your response to colleagues Lazarov and Popov was loudly reflected in the media, with great thanks from the mayor and the residents for having done a lot of work, and in fact this is a duty of the state, but this is another topic. What concerns both me and the people who have asked me this question is that the deadline is changing again, and I am counting that there will be no second question for you on this subject on my part. When we answer, let us be precise and correct to our fellow citizens, of course, to all Bulgarian citizens, especially you, as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u182	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, you'll probably add the answer to the statement made. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, you are very right in this case, but I assure you within the specific time limit that the contract will start on 9 May. And I am committed because of this month's delay, rather than a month's delay, I mentioned the end of April. Between the end of April and 9 May, we can assume that there is about 15 days' delay, I will demand that the Commission's appointment order, which will deal with the submitted offers, be caught up with a more accurate, faster and more effective work of the auction commission, so that the citizens will not remain specifically of the village, with the belief that we will slow things down. I think that after several questions asked not only by your colleagues, but also in previous national meetings, the commitment that the state has, as you mentioned, the executive authority, within the framework of this mandate will be completed. The financial resources are provided, the construction will start, in a few months we will finish it. God forbid, if there is no appeal to the tender procedure, it should also be within this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u184	Thank you. We move on to the next question to Minister Nankov. The question is from the MP Sevim Ismail Ali about the rehabilitation of Republican road I-7, km 189+300, to road III 7006, km 202+290, from the branch for Sadovo and Vesenkovo, towards Varbitsa. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, through the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare passes the first-class Republican road I-7, passing through the territory of five districts: Silistrenska, Shumenska, Burgaska, Slivenska and Yambolska. In the section from road I-7, km 189+300, to road III-7006, km 202+290, the road is closed with a barrier and a forbidden road sign The necessary repair of the first-class Republican road I-7, which passes through the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare, refers to approximately 13 kilometers from the branch for Sadovo and Vesenkovo towards the municipality of Vrbitsa. The failure to maintain the above road section over the past 10 years by the Road Infrastructure Agency, which has led to the current extremely poor technical condition of the road section concerned. The road starts from the border with Romania at the Silistra crossings, and reaches the border with the Republic of Turkey at the border of the border of Lesovo border crossings, and is the most direct link between northern and southern Bulgaria. With the renovation of the main road I-7 on the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare, conditions for economic development will be created for both the municipality of Sungurlare and at least five other districts in the Republic of Bulgaria and the municipalities within their scope. Improving transport accessibility will ensure labour mobility, an attractive business environment for local entrepreneurs and attracting foreign investors. In this regard, my question to you, Mr Minister, is this: is there funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in this year 2018 for the main rehabilitation or partial repair of: Republican Road I-7, km 189+300, to road III-7006, km 202+290, from the branch for the village of Sadovo and the village of Vesenkovo in the direction of Varbitsa, which is 12,99 km long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question of the People's Representative Sevim Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, first-class road I-7 "Granitsa Romania" around the ring road Silistra "Dulovo" around the ring road "Shumen" around the ring road "Preslav" is part of the Republic of Turkey's road "Beronovo" is part of the Republic's road network in the territory of five districts "Silistra," Shumen, Burgas, Sliven and Yambol. During the period 2013 - 2016, in Lot 4 and Lot 5 of the Project Transit Roads Vs, a rehabilitation of sections of a total length of 173 km 700 m from the road I visited in the territory of Northern Bulgaria was carried out as follows: - from km 0+180 within the town of Silistra to km 108+540 the connection with road I-2 - from km 115+000 "The connection with the road I-2 "Ruse " Varna " to km 180+232 " to the end of the road built after the village of Varbitsa. Rehabilitation has achieved a lasting improvement in the transport-service characteristics of the road and safe driving conditions. The section of km 180+232 on the road I-7 is not re-installed approximately after the town of Varbitsa, and the intersection of the first-class road with road II-48 with road Omurtag. In this range I suppose is the section of road I-7, from km 189+300 to km 202+290, i.e. to the intersection with road III-7006, a branch for Sadovo and Vesenkovo, which represents the Varby Pass. The gauge and technical elements of the quoted section do not meet the first-class regulatory requirements. In order to bring the parameters of the road in this part in accordance with the standard I class path, the existing route will need to be shifted along a new track, which means that in addition to the development of an investment project in the phases of the "Ideen" and "Securities," environmental impact assessment and compatibility assessment procedures will have to be carried out, given the passage through Natura 2000 protected areas, the development of a detailed development plan, and the acquisition of state need land, i.e. alienation procedures. It is also necessary to comply with the requirements of the Cultural Heritage Act. All these activities are related to the provision of the necessary financial resources and the corresponding planning of the site in the Agency's investment programme. At this stage, due to a limited financial framework, which, unfortunately, I have spoken about at every parliamentary control, I am convinced that in the following year we will not talk about a limited financial framework after the introduction of the system, however, the Agency's budget currently does not provide funds for major repairs and reconstruction of Republican road I-7, in the section from km 189+300 to km 202+290, namely the Varby Pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ali, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your reply, but I cannot be pleased with the answer you have given me because, as far as I understand it, there is no provision for this year for rehabilitation or repair of the road section under consideration. My question to you has been dictated by my meetings, which I have held with the inhabitants of Sungurlare municipality. There they raised the issue precisely of the importance of this road section. The issue was also raised by the management of the municipality of Sungurlare. As far as I know, last year they sent a letter to the Ministry, which you are in charge of. If this road section is repaired and launched for the movement of cars, firstly, it will contribute further to the development of this region, and, secondly, this is the most direct link between North and South Bulgaria in this area and we will save a lot of money and time for travelers on this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u190	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, I also thank you for your correctness in the approach and in asking the question. Indeed, like you, I am also dissatisfied with the answer I give, but you know for what objective reasons I give such answers. If I had to answer all your questions positively, the budget of the Ministry, including the Road Infrastructure Agency, would not be around 450 million. It was supposed to be 6 billion. BGN to answer all your questions in a positive and satisfying manner. You're an intelligent man, and you understand my judgment. Indeed, people not only from Sungurlare but also from neighboring villages, not only from South and Northern Bulgaria, along the Verbishka Pass realize the importance. We also appreciate the importance. Since 2012 after a letter to the Road Infrastructure Agency, in agreement with the Directorate-General of National Police, the passage is closed. We know about the year-round immobilisation of motor vehicles precisely for the reasons that you summarized in the question, and I do in your initial answer. In order to ensure normal passage, although not so pleasant, and adequate transport of citizens to the north and south of the country in this part of the Balkan Mountains, we have alternative republican roads. The Rishk Pass has been opened all year long, rehabilitated with public resources more than five years ago, in good condition this is Republican Road II-73 It is also not my satisfaction, responding in this way, but it would not be accurate at all, and appropriate, but also fair to you and to your constituents, the voters of all your colleagues in the area, to give you unrealistic expectations and consequently to manipulate or mislead you from this high tribune. On the contrary, we are therefore working systematically on introducing the toll system so that we have in maximum volumes of resources, which I always mention, which will enable us not to be a government, but to all future governments, to conduct a truly independent and financially sustainable policy of maintaining road infrastructure in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before we go to the next question of our visit is a beautiful group of young people in even more beautiful uniforms. Let's say hello to them. Welcome! [[Applause.]] Let's get on with our work. The next question is from the National Representative Philip Popov and from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev on the construction of a bypass of the town of Bregovo. Mr. Topchiev will develop the issue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, the border crossing Bregovo is located on the territory of the town of Bregovo and the entire airport passes through the town of Bregovo. In recent years, frequent passage of tanks, which turned out to carry sulphuric acid. The citizens of the town of Bregovo, worried about the fact that dangerous goods are passing through, these tanks are about 30. 40 per day, they created an Initiative Committee, a signature, sent it to you. I had a meeting with you on this issue to resolve the problem of passing these dangerous goods through the territory of the town of Bregovo. My colleague Popov and I have discussed the issue and we believe that building a road that is possible will solve this problem. In this regard, my question to you is: do you also foresee when the construction of a road by the city of Bregovo to stop the passage through the city of road vehicles carrying dangerous goods?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u194	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr. Topchiev, Mr. Popov also as a co-counsel! Transports of dangerous goods within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to another State, a member of the European Union, and/or between the Republic of Bulgaria and third countries, shall be carried out subject to the requirements of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR), pursuant to Regulation No 40 on the conditions and arrangements for the carriage of dangerous goods by road issued by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Executive Agency is conducting control and regulation of the transport of dangerous goods by road, the technical operation of vehicles and other related dangerous goods and aspects. The checkpoint is located in the town's features. The transit traffic from Bulgaria to Serbia and vice versa takes place at the Republican road II-12, the ring road Vidin The main heavy goods vehicles from and to Europe pass through the border crossing point and the route is preferred by carriers as the shortest route to the town of Negostin, the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, heavy goods vehicles carry dangerous goods through the territory of the town of Bregovo, but currently the movement along the Republican and municipal roads to the border point is being carried out along the existing road infrastructure through the city itself. Redirecting traffic on alternative routes, for example on the second-class road II-14 Vidin It won't be Coast. There, by the way, we are strengthening, with signs mark the landslide, we have chosen a performer, which I have taken again after your question from this tribune. The Republican Road II-12, the ring road Vidin "Inovo" "Bregovo" border with the Republic of Serbia has a total length of 26 km. The road serves not only the adjoining settlements of Inovo to the municipality of Vidin, the village of Gumzovo and the town of Bregovo to the municipality of Bregovo, the village of Gumzo from the municipality to the municipal center of Bregovo, but also makes transport connections with the municipal Republican road network. The technical and operational state of road II-12 is medium for good. In some sections, it really has worse performance, but we don't have bad sections of the track. Over the past year, repairs have been carried out to maintain it at a value of just under 400 thousand. lv. The activities include: manual and machine patching of holes and deformities of road flooring, handling cracks and joints in the pavement, not to list all of them, dozens of activities for that 400 thousand. lv. in the direction of the route. At this stage, the API investment programme does not include construction of a bypass. In order to realise this investment intention, it is necessary to design a technical project, to carry out estrangement procedures, to conduct public contracts for the award of construction and construction supervision, all of which requires a significant financial resource which the API has currently not foreseen in its budget programme in 2018, due to its limited limits. I also answered the previous question for what other reasons. Despite all the above, the Agency shall take measures to address the problems of the population in the town of Bregovo. The management of the Road Infrastructure Agency held a meeting with the Initiative Committee on your insistence and the protesters in the city, which was the result of which was decided and at present the speed for crossing the settlement was reduced from 50 km to 40 km. Talks are being held with the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration to limit the risks of passing dangerous goods vehicles in order to ensure maximum security of residents in the town of Bregovo under the current regulations concerning the case of dangerous goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u196	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Mr. Popov will probably use the line? Here you are, Mr. Popov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u197	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Your response has practically revealed that there will be no bypass at Bregovo, although there is such a project, it is from quite a few years ago and it is about 2 km away. Dear Minister, I hope that, because in the government program at least this is what you say, the government is mainly focused in terms of infrastructure, building infrastructure there, and rather catching up with the Northwestern towards the rest of Bulgaria in terms of infrastructure, the ministry that you run will be able to do such a project, to implement such a project, if not in this budget year, at least in the next. Dear Minister, there are really dangerous goods going through there, many tanks a day, as my colleague Topchiev told you. These tanks, regardless of regulation, regardless of prevention, so that the worst does not happen, no one can be insured and ensure that this tank, passing the school in the town of Bregovo, along the kindergarten, because they pass there, will not happen any road accident with extremely severe consequences. They carry a high concentration of sulphuric acid by over 90%. It could be Hitrino 2, and I'm sorry to use it in my line to you. Please make a commitment to direct the resources, the efforts of the Ministry really to build a bypass in Bregovo to calm people down there. You know the committee, signatures, protests. People are still worried there, and now I guess even more, once they realize that for this year nothing is planned and will not be foreseen in connection with the construction of a bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u198	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Minister, for the duplicate, in addition to your response. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and ladies of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, I do understand your concern, my concern and, of course, all citizens. I'll make some short bills, perhaps satisfying and your additional question. I'm going to start there: two miles, as you call it, is a road. Whether it's 20 or 2 miles, you've been a lawmaker for many years, you know what the procedures are, 2 miles is not being built today or yesterday for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u200	Let's get this procedure started!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u201	That's right. Let's start a procedure. Otherwise, as MPs, you can shorten those procedures for which we will be extremely grateful. We have tabled similar legislative proposals. Apart from this, concerning the regulation for the transport of dangerous goods, this regulation again, except that, you know, there is a European regulation and directives on the subject, is also subject to regulatory changes, as these dangerous goods do not only pass If we believe that regulation and control, if you want to make such a statement, are not good enough and the control authorities are not doing their job, I would recommend that we create regulation common to avoid these dangerous goods passing through the settlements at all. As the bad and vicious practice back in the years, if we go back, it was the roads of the Republican, first-class, second-class, to pass through the centers of the settlements. That's how roads were built in the '60s, '70s. The modern practice is precisely this: the roads to be removed from the central parts and within the settlements, from their urbanized territories, to build highways, to build around them. We gradually think that this in the last 10 years, visible to all Bulgarian citizens, is that the march, logic is correct and we are taking out the traffic to a maximum extent and we will continue to do so from within, from the features of the cities. So you're right! I don't want it to sound like a pick on you, on the contrary. We need to think on the subject if a single case in the town of Bregovo would make us build a road around the road, why do we not reason on the hypothesis to improve control if you think it is not good and there is a real danger to this population, or to change the regulations of the case. Again, dangerous goods completely controlled and regulated by the control Bulgarian institutions pass not only within the town of Bregovo. Normal practice is not only in Bulgaria but also in all European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Tanner Ali concerning the condition of road III-4082 Kapishte, Bankovets, on which the movement of motor vehicles is almost impossible due to the extremely poor and unsatisfactory condition of the above section. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u203	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Through the territory of the municipality of Antonovo, Targovishte district passes Republican road III-4082 Kapishte Bankovets, which connects two municipalities and is in an extremely poor operational state for which I am ready to provide you with pictures and a signature from the residents of the villages of Bankovets, Subotitsa, Kapishte, Malka Cherkovna and Stara Rechka. Due to insufficient technical service support over the last 10 years by the Road Infrastructure Agency, on the road road and receiving banquets and drainage ditches have led to the current extremely poor technical condition of the road section concerned, which in turn is a prerequisite for a road accident. From the pouring rains that have fallen in the last days, deep network tracks have formed on the territory of Antonovo Municipality along the way, making it difficult for vehicles to move. The bus, moving students to the settlements Bankovets, Subotitsa, Kapishte and Stara River through the above road section, refuses to move more intelligible considerations about the safety of children. Thus, residents in these four settlements are condemned to complete isolation. In this regard, my question to you is: is there funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in this year 2018 to carry out a basic rehabilitation or partial repair of road III-4082 Kapishte - Bankovets, where the movement of motor vehicles is almost impossible due to the extremely poor and unsatisfactory condition of the road section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ali! Third-class road III-4082 (Ilyo In 1999, the road was reclassed by a fourth-class, i.e. municipal, third-class, but its technical parameters did not meet the standard requirements of a third-class road. I will not turn back time..... if I should have, shouldn't have, not even met the requirements. In the section from km 0+000 to km 11+300, including the section you have seen, the "Capiteshte" is a limit for the movement of motor vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes. In recent years, annual spring and autumn, and after heavy rains, the sector is being renovated with funds under the current renovation and maintenance, you know about these repairs that we are already denying. God willing, next year we'll stop these palliative repairs for a cold blend. By the way, they cost almost nothing on the budget, but they are palliative, as it is said from rain to rain, recovering damage from surface water and extracting the broken stone floor that you mentioned and are currently available on the track terrain. The last repair was carried out in March this year, as soon as winter maintenance was completed, the road was filled with frescoed material and was rained, the banquets were profiled, the drainage facilities, ditches and ponds were cleaned. One of the large waterfalls of km 7+202 is repaired, and the second large watershed of km 11+105 is being repaired, for which there was a delay due to bad weather. A major repair and reconstruction of the third-class road from km 0+000 to km 11+300 is needed for the permanent solution of the problem, with the construction of a new road body, the laying of two layers of asphalt concrete and the construction of new concrete equipment that meet the standards for the design of third-grade roads, which currently does not meet the road. According to a preliminary expert assessment, the indicative amount for the major renovation of the section will be at least 11 million. lv. with VAT. The introduction of these funds would make sense if the road was repaired on the territory of Veliko Tarnovo from km 23+300 to km 40+446. A project has been prepared for the 2008 major repair section, which needs to be updated. The estimated value for the major repair of this area due to its less degraded characteristics amounts to about 10 million. lv. with VAT. In order for the road in its entirety from km 0+000 to km 40+446 to be rehabilitated, to be fully implemented its purpose and to be a convenient link between the districts of Targovishte, Veliko Tarnovo, is needed in total around 21 million. lv. with VAT for major repairs. Due to the limited financial framework of the Agency, the second-class road is currently not included within the framework of the repair programme in 2018. I do not respond positively to you, but I will seek the opportunity to secure such a resource in 2019, including I am becoming really banal with the theme of the system, but because of your efforts with these issues in every Friday control, our first steps were precisely towards the introduction of the toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u206	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u207	Mr. Minister, I've been waiting for this answer. Since 2005, more than 37 letters have been sent to the Road Agency or to the Road Office, Targovishte, of all directors who have worked there so far, to request funds from the Ministry, so that at least partially... I know that finances are limited, that it is difficult to bet money. I also know the side answers that there is little population there and there are more priority roads, but that can't happen, provided that people still live there, there are students, there are buses. I've been in this municipality for many years, I've even taken measures and talks with the district managers, and with the directors of road governments in Targovishte, to make it municipal again, so that we can apply for programs, really for something to happen. Because this makes it difficult for us to once that it does not meet the conditions for a Republican road network, and once the standards that must be applied to those projects that you finance. Speaking of partial repairs, have access to the locality because there is a work project. And I, as far as I know about the 11km stretch that is urgently needed, the work project is somewhere worth about 6 million. lv. with VAT. At least that's how I've been notified. Maybe I'm wrong. [[M Minister Nikolay Nankov's reply.]] Yes, you may be right, but let us, if this year we do not, maintain it at this level, at which we have kept at least until now, so that at least from next year, in the introduction of the toll system that we talked so much about yesterday, to separate at least year by year, partly to be made, and so thank you for your reply. I believe we will succeed in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ali. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, I have always tried, I do not always manage, for example yesterday, to be correct when we are having such a debate, because I am convinced that you are giving a clear account, so I will not be incorrect. You mentioned 2005. Indeed, these 11 kilometers of the road are in a tragic state. This is the value of the repair not 6 million but 11 million. lv. We have to replace everything with two layers of asphalt concrete, in a tragic state. [[Heckling]] I'm not going into dialogue with the House. I'm sorry. We find ourselves in the hypothesis that 2005 - 2006 everything was wonderful, wonderful in the road sector. Then launch the concept of introducing the tol system or not tol system. Come on, let's not call it a toll system. If this concept had been launched then, first steps were taken, not that then it was, then if they were, we wouldn't really comment this time. You are right that we cannot solve all the problems in a year by introducing the system, but we need to step up, again on prioritization, as at the moment, to work on the topic of the Rehabilitation of Second Class and Third Class Roads, but with the modest budget that the API and the Ministry have, including the European programmes that we are implementing "Programme" (Operational Program of the Regions "Development of the Regions"), about 300 km of roads for a serious amount. Targovishte "Razgrad" we finish, for example, in Targovishka district. From the modest budget we have, last year we started, this year we will finish the renovation in Targovishka area on the third-class road 5102 Mirovets We're talking worth almost $10 million. lv. Again, from the modest budget we have. Apart from that, on the territory of the district, the third-class road III-202 Opaka, Popovo, 7 million. 900,000. lv. If we consider them even a percentage, it is not a small resource that the Agency intends this year to invest in the main renovation in Targovishka district. We are really doing as objectively as possible, and we are trying at least, I am not saying that we are fully correct, maximum objective prioritization of road sections in traffic, in numbers of serviced populations from settlements, but we are really looking for a systematic and global solution to this problem. I am convinced that there will be life after us, and other rulers will come who will take advantage of the steps that we really took at the beginning of this mandate to introduce the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Manol Genov and is about the problems regarding the implementation of the Ordinance on the requirements and criteria for the water operators and the qualification of their staff, adopted by Decree No 11 of 23 January 2018 of the Council of Ministers. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, during a reception in Rakitovo municipality, the local population, the water operator and the municipal authorities raised the question related to the normal functioning of the water supply operator in view that with the adopted Ordinance on the requirements and criteria for water operators and the qualification of their staff, with Decree No 11 of 23 January 2018 the requirements and criteria for part of the water operators, in particular the water operator of Rakitovo municipality, are set out with Decree No 11 of 23 January 2018. On the one hand, there are requirements for a corporation obligation for them to have a particular technique, on the other hand, requirements for the qualified personnel concerned, which is financially impossible and will result in the company being unable to carry out its activities. This will increase sharply and the cost of water. For clarity, the water in Rakitovo is produced gravitationally and part of the technique regulated as a minimum requirement under the Ordinance, as well as the relevant qualified personnel required are not necessary. And the documentary implementation of quality systems will hardly respond to the improvement of the quality of the services provided to users in view of the fact that you put it in the reasons of the Regulation. In this regard, our question is in the light of the above prerequisites: how will VK Rakitovo and the other similar settlements carry out their activities, according to the Bulgarian legislation, in view of the criteria and requirements for which significant financial resources are required?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u213	Dear Mrs. Klisurska, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! The Ordinance on requirements and criteria for water operators and the qualification of their staff lays down the requirements and criteria to be met by water operators in order to carry out the management, maintenance and operation activities of water systems and facilities and to provide water services to consumers. The implementation of the Ordinance aims to increase the qualification of the personnel of the water operators required for the operation and maintenance of the water infrastructure related to the use of new technologies, materials and management systems, optimize activities in providing water supply services to consumers and waste water extraction and treatment, it does not matter whether by gravitational or pumping method. All this should lead to improvement of the quality of the services provided. The regulated requirements and criteria are also in line with the documents of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the implementation of the regulatory framework for the regulatory period 2017 - 2021. I note that according to the provisions of § 4, para. 1 of the Ordinance, which we quoted both, the postponement period within which the water operators should meet the requirements is 31 December 2019. One of the reasons for the low efficiency in the water supply sector is the too small size of some of the water companies, which not only does not allow them to achieve economies of scale when providing water services and make the necessary investments in the water infrastructure, but also limits their ability to retain qualified employees and develop the administrative and technical capacity of personnel. The reduction of the population, on the one hand, the necessary means for maintaining existing and building new infrastructure, as well as improving the quality of the service, on the other hand, pose constant challenges to the water companies that require them to be effective but also profitable and sustainable, with good management. One way to achieve economic profitability under a regulated price is to extend the scope of the provision of services, i.e. to provide services to more consumers. This would allow the generation of the necessary resource to ensure sustainable maintenance of systems. In this sense, the global natural trend is for the consolidation of operators so that they can provide sufficient funds for investments, operational activities and staff development. In relation to the above, we recommended, with a view to providing quality water services, continuous supply, disposal and treatment of waste water, at socially acceptable prices for consumers, Rakitovo Municipality, as a good owner, to consider and analyse the possibility of joining the Regional Association of Water and Water. The consolidation of municipalities in Pazardzhik district within a local water operator would create conditions for optimizing costs at regional level, planning long-term investments and providing opportunities for applying for national and European funding. On 23 April 2018, Deputy Minister Krumova took part in a working meeting in Pazardzhik, with the participation of the regional governor of Pazardzhik and mayors of seven municipalities of Velingrad, Sarnitsa, Rakitovo, Bratsigovo, Peshtera, Belovo and Batak. At the meeting they declared their readiness for consolidation of the water operators in a new Association for Water and Water, with one water operator. You know that there is a restructuring of the state-owned company that is in liquidation. At present, the Regional Administration has committed itself to developing, in agreement with the Ministry of Water, guidelines for the municipalities for their future integration into the Association of Waters, in implementation of the Water Act. I mentioned that the postponement period for the implementation of the Ordinance on Municipal Water Companies, which currently cannot cope with these requirements, is December 31st 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in view of the answer you have given us, and it becomes clear also with the new Decree No 11, it becomes clear that this is a hidden way to encourage all water operators to become members of regional associations. It is clear to you and to all small water operators that this accession to district water associations will mostly reflect not on the quality of the service provided, as you have regulated it in the Ordinance, but will reflect on the cost of water. In the accession of these municipalities, which you mentioned, seven municipalities that produce water gravitationally, in the territory of Pazardzhik region, the price of water will rise not twice, but will jump three times, which will be impossible for these small municipalities. And in this regard, the really alternative approach to creating a new alternative Water Association may be a better solution to this issue. In this regard, our request is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to assist these municipalities in establishing an alternative water association, both with its expertise and with the necessary technical support and in view that a large part of the specialists, and I emphasise it, which are regulated in the Ordinance as requirements, are not necessary when water is produced gravitationally, as well as the necessary technique. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is important to review the minimum requirements imposed under the Ordinance in view of the delay until 31 December 2019 in order to review these criteria so that all water operators in the territory of the Pazardzhik region and also in the territory of the country meet the minimum quality standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Hole, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, there are no differences and differences on the subject. Indeed, some of the recommendations were very appropriate. Only one note from me "The Regulation does not aim to overwhelm the sector, on the contrary it aims to create capacity in the water companies and those that do not meet the requirements that are really minimal, with some exceptions. I'm gonna take a look, and we're gonna sort it out with lawyers, with water engineers, the theme of gravitational water. If there are such requirements, I say again, a very appropriate note, we will specify the texts, but not from the Regulation follows the approach you say. On the contrary, the approach in both the world and European practice, I mentioned, is to overturn, to refuse concessions, of course, and to ensure efficiency in the sector, not only from a social, not just from a technological and financial point of view. It is normal for sectors that have other than the social environment, as the water sectors are socially most involved, to work on a market basis. It's a favor. Water, yes, it is free, as they say, it is exclusive government property. The water company performs a service.. buys the water by paying a water charge, from the principle of the state water................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Delivers it in the necessary quantities and with the necessary quality to our homes, takes it where there are treatment plants, and purifies it we are already talking about waste water. So this service, apart from its social component, which is currently extremely strong, must also develop on a market basis. With this I will conclude, in my reply I gave this proposal, which I see you support for the creation of a new Association on Water and Water with a new operator. We will assist, as always, the local and regional authorities in this process, as well as in the case of Pazardzhik's regional governor and respectively the management of the seven municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u218	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Dora Yankova about the future construction of the ring road of the town of Chepelare as part of the second-class road Asenovgrad Smolyan. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u219	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the future construction of the road around the town of Chepelare as part of the second-class road Asenovgrad Smolyan. Mr. Minister, you know that for more than 10 years we have been talking about this ring road from almost all governments before that. On 3 April 2014, there was even a first break with a selected performer at the time the Association of Rodopi-86. The amount of funds was allocated to the total amount of EUR 10.5 million. EUR in the framework of the Transit routes Vs (Vs) in order to be able to be realised. Then the commitment was that within a year this could happen. The project was subsequently stopped with motives that the local authorities did not deal with estranged procedures at the time. This response was received on 26 June 2015 by Minister Lilyana Pavlova, for reasons that the deadline for the "Transit Roads" was short, the resource could not be absorbed, to go parallel the alienation procedure, but then, at the end of the question, Minister Pavlova said that in the targeted program for the Rhodopes could be sought and I insisted on other financial instruments. Now in Chepelare as a modern city for tourism, a good mountain town that puts for itself the emphasis on tourism to take the road transport and flow out of the center, and you know that the second-class way goes everything there are cargoes, there are cars, the support of the state to this city is precisely this ring road. My question is: is there a prediction in your ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency that this thing will happen and when in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yankova! Under the Treaty C-No 88 concluded on 19 July 2000 between the municipality of Chepelare and the then General Road Management, which is the Agency for Road Infrastructure and with the subject of the Joint Financing of the Completion and putting into service of the site II-86 According to the contract, the road administration is committed to designing technical projects for the four subdivisions concerned and to financing and implementation of the construction works of the site. The estranged procedures, as well as the payment of the benefits to the owners of the alienated properties, are the responsibility of the municipality. In 2001, technical projects were made for the four subdivisions. As a result of a technical need arose, in 2012, the API commissioned an update and supplement of the technical design for subdivision III of km. I did not re-enumerate the kilometers, I mentioned which are in subdivision III and the latter was adopted by the Expert Technical and Economic Council of the Agency. The next procedure is the assessment of compliance with the requirements of the current regulatory framework. For sections I, II and IV, an update is also needed by revising and supplementing design developments, given the changes in road regulations, the introduction of Eurocode. These are the main ones that require an update of these three parts, which will be carried out within this year. The necessary means for the realization of the site are formed by the following components: update costs, which I mentioned, this year will be carried out on the three parts with unupdated projects; cost of finalising the process of expropriation of properties and, of course, the costs of construction and construction supervision itself. With regard to the amount of funds needed to implement the activities of the Agency's competence, we will rule after the update. Such a commitment to take over from this tribune since we are already following up on days, not months, within weeks, at the end of the year, we will be ready with the update. At the end of the year I will make a commitment from this tribune October we are ready with the update of the three parts. Then we will have full clarity about the necessary resources that the Agency must put into construction and construction supervision. Until then, however, I also hope, with our help, that the municipality of Chepelare will be able to complete the estrangement procedure for the 15 properties affected by the project. Upon full project readiness for the site and after the estrangement procedure has been completed, while we are also able to update the project developments within this year.October month, we must proceed, you know very well, the construction permit and assign in parallel with this................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a time schedule maybe we should stick things up a little better with Chepelare Municipality. Their alienation schedule to go in parallel with our schedule on the update of the procedure, as these are necessary conditions to issue a building permit, to start with the real implementation of the project and the tender. I'm running out of time, but I'm not gonna take my right to the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I asked the question and thank you for the answer and the commitment for the following reason. The municipality of Chepelare is having a debate with the municipal council and with the Ministry of Finance and they say: "What is our guarantee and security that the road will be financed? " Now the residents of Chepelare and the institutions need to know that you, as Bulgarian minister, have made a commitment here and reaffirm what you shared February month in Smolyan that the ring road of Chepelare will be approximately 17 million without VAT, will be in three phases, the update will be made and you have shared that there is a problem, yes, with the translation of some 450 thousand. BGN, but you hope to support the municipality and end this. Here already on the issue of the municipality of Chepelare, I think that you and your counterpart, Minister Goranov, will have a conversation, can predict this 450 000 seriously. I hope that when preparing the budget for next year you will anticipate the financing of the road itself. This is the policy of the state to support a modern tourist village in its development. It is really developing: winter tourism, the Mountains of Bulgaria "host in four seasons" is preparing the connection with Pamporovo. This for us in the Rhodopes is a holding, and the state by supporting means partnership and security. Thanks for the answer. Already on the move are these business talks that need to stick to the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You won't have the back, Mr. Secretary, I understand. Thank you. The next question is again from the MP Dora Yankova and is about strengthening the landslide along the road Smolyan "Madan." Please, Mrs. Yankova, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The problem on this state road, which is from Plovdiv, is the same. The second-class road is the main road infrastructure. Around 7 March 2018, a landslide stopped the road between Smolyan and Madan. A lot of questions came up, a lot of on-site visits. First, the settlements within the municipality of Smolyan, which go daily, in their daily labour migration, to work. There you partially solved the issue by one time, which should be by all rules, as there is a 17 to 24 degree slope that is unacceptable, but still the issue of quick access to people who go to work is solved. There my worry, Minister, and you check it as people who are in power is whether cargo cars should pass, which are currently started by the forest authorities, and whether buses with people, even 12 or 16-seats should go. But the other issue has been debated for the second month, is there a project, is there no project, what is done with the big landslide? A huge discomfort is created, the road is essential to the relationship with Greece. Summer's coming, a lot of people are traveling. I know there's a road around here. But I want you to make a commitment from this tribune and inform Rhodopeans what is going on, as there is a different talk: the mayor speaks one thing, the deputy governor, thirdly, you have made commitments, you send your deputy minister, you also make commitments. I think here from the stands you, as Minister for this policy, will inform the Rhodopes what further measures there will be and what will be done with this landslide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I don't think he made any commitments, he went through there. It was another business trip, but it still came to make a report on how far the activities went. The main reasons for the emergence and landslide process at km 109+450 on route II-86 Smolyan "Srednogorians" are related to the structure of the array over the road. Its degree of erosion and its peculiarities of geological construction that favour, unfortunately, the collapse of processes. This was built in the old days without taking into account these factors. Long-term intense snow precipitation from 25 February 2018 to 28 February 2018 and the subsequent sudden rise in temperatures led to a re-wetting of the slope of the road and activation of a landslide process in the area on 6 March 2018. The event happened suddenly. Cleaning has been carried out in due time and one lane of movement has been opened. On the 7th of March, the next day, due to a new collapse of rock masses in the precinct and the strict preservation of the health and life of travelers, the road is closed for traffic for all road vehicles. Initially, a bypass route was introduced in the town of Smolyan, the village of Fatovo, the town of Rudozem, the village of Srednogortsi, which is the only possible route at that time, as the other alternative is the third-class road III-8681 Rudozem.. Smilyan, on 4 March 2018 a prison for traffic due to the activation of stabilisation processes in the section from km 6+150 to km 8+300 and the accumulation of land rock masses along all road lanes. On 12 March 2018, the third-class road III-8681 was opened for movement. A new route was introduced from Smolyan village to Chokmanovo village of Smilyan village to Rudozem village of Srednogortsi and vice versa, of course. It's being rerouted to heavy traffic. On 9 March 2018, an initial view of the slope was carried out at km 109+450 by geologists. In the light of the above, there has been evidence of a comprehensive landslide process which has not yet subsided as a result of which a decision has been taken to suspend the clearing activities of the route. I will pay special attention to you, you mentioned that a temporary tour was built to ensure the movement of cars and vans from the village of Vlahovo to Tikalsko Dere. The segment was 1,450 km long and extended the road of the drivers by about 600 to 800 meters. I'm going to do a background check on exactly what you mentioned to me about the big slopes, whether it's appropriate for heavy goods vehicles to pass through there. In the meantime, a survey of the state of the plumbing and of the 110-kilovolt pipeline, passing 200 meters above the collapse itself, has also been carried out. You know, it only affected the road part, the road body and potentially could partially affect the low voltage power line, the 20-kilovolt, and potentially the water supply and the 110-kilovolt power supply. Fortunately for us, they were not affected and function normally. This is not a guarantee that in future possible activation of the landslide will not be affected. On 14 March 2018, a new view of the site was made by an expert group formed by order of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the API. The task of the experts was to carry out a detailed examination and mapping, to prepare an opinion on the mechanism and dynamics of a landslide process and to give recommendations for the implementation of emergency activities. The review experts report is presented in the API on 19 March. I shorten my response as I delay the time. Experts recommend blocking the formed cracks on the slope with special foil, tamping the holes in the plumbing area that passes along the slope of the road, limiting the effects of surface water. The API, as the owner of the Republican road, plans to launch detailed geological, engineering and hydro-geological research activities. At the moment there is a contract for design to be signed, we have a selected designer, then by the end of May the technical project should be presented at the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" to be agreed by the API and by the Ministry and procedures for selecting a contractor for the MRI and supervision should be started, most likely through emergency repairs. The indicative period for starting these procedures shall be June of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u228	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u229	Mr. Minister and the media and the debate in Smolyan and in the area is visible that the problem is the focus of power as commitment. First of all, I want to ask you a few things. I went through this road in my own car and I actually heard the experts who came by its acceptance, it's exactly one kilometer, I picked it up, from the branch to the new section.1,400 km, the new segment itself is one kilometer and then in the village of Vlahovo is so, gracefully changed the environment, at least they have won from modernization and infrastructure. But 17 degrees to 24 degrees slope, that's dangerous. Sixteen people, and now in the media, it's obvious that they're already affording cargo cars that can smoke and cause a problem. Get involved and, if necessary, let the cars of people who go to work go to work! Secondly, I would like to ask you, the 57th day is already, strain the administration, there is a lot of debate, there is indeed a complicated case, there is a first stage that right now some cracks to cover them, but the following problem arises: is the company that you are going to choose is not a company that currently has a lot of work in the whole country and is therefore slowing down? This should distract him as a problem, as other experts and experts believe that it could be more dynamic and faster. But you did share the project, there will be a performer. One more question I would like to put on behalf of my constituents. The road Rudozem Mt. Srednogorets, Fatovo, the deviation for Smilyan to Smolyan has been compromised. During this period there are opportunities to make a project and it can be rehabilitated, well rehabilitated, because in the end we see that there is a need for parallel roads, and this is also a state road and on the Support Program there could happen because the other section of Smilyan in transit roads that has it, only until Smilyan is good. And again, the road from Smilyan to Smolyan is in this part of rehabilitation. These are my requests: to keep a close eye on the processes that are going, and as quickly as possible, if you need two shifts, as has been done this time, to open the way, because this is indeed the main way for the loaders, the human flow, for tourism and for the development of the area. It's not for a reason that this is our most important path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I start with control along the newly built section and rehabilitated one on the existing road through the village of Tikale. As a reminder, my colleagues have just responded, the heavy traffic on this area is limited. I mentioned, through Chokmanovo, the third-class road remained heavy, the main heavy traffic came from Rudozem. You know even about the letters and the discontent of the owners of several of the localized companies in Rudozem. On the contrary, through the third-class route, we do not even have a bypass, we have a bypass of about 1.5 km.. 2, it is in a relatively good operational state and therefore needs to be located, redirected, and currently heavy traffic. I'm going to do a very quick check on why, if your statements are really true, heavy goods vehicles are passing, and with my colleagues at the DMV, we're going to make a better organization. What you're saying is true, we need to limit heavy traffic. Secondly, on speed and on the state's actions. On the fourth day, I personally, personally, visited the problem section. By the way, I received thank-you letters from all 11 mayors of mayors and settlements for the rapid adequate response of the state both to prevent the initial damage from the collapse and to prevent its expansion from compromising and the high tension of the long-distance pipeline, plumbing and to further damage to the road body, and because of their rapid, thanks were taken for the rapid opening and construction of the road along the bypass. Apart from this, the doubts you have will be immediately distracted, as the contract with the designer I mentioned will be signed within the next week and by the end of May, within no more than 20 days will be presented the technical project, the development of such are the requirements of the contract, so that we can start another month of June with the choice of a contractor to perform the overall strengthening of the slope, as we do not want to do palliative actions. I mentioned, there was no time left in the specific answer to the question, as I extended the time to mention that the project solutions should provide for the overall strengthening of both the active landslide zone and the section east of it to the branch of the village of Tikale, as we would not allow ourselves to do something palatial, which in a year or two will allow again from this tribune to be alive and well, us or others to answer the same questions. That is, to solve the whole, sustainable and long-term landslide problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u232	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the opening of the border crossing between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Here you are, you have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Stoyanov. ATANAS STOYANOV (OP): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Nankov, the implementation of projects related to border crossings with our neighbouring countries is one of the tools for improving our neighbouring relations, increasing trade and economic relations and developing cultural exchanges between our neighbouring countries, and especially important, valuable and appropriate when it comes to a border crossing point related to brother Macedonia. The opening of such a post, named "Klepalo" between the municipalities of Berovo, respectively, by the Republic of Macedonia, and the municipality of Strumiani, on our part, is a matter which has been debated in many state institutions over the years, including many times here in the National Assembly. The Republic of Macedonia, in turn, has fulfilled its technical commitments on the necessary infrastructure, on the construction of this point, and on our part, unfortunately, there has not yet been, or until recently, concrete actions to build this necessary infrastructure. Probably the issue was very serious when the Treaty on Good Neighborhood and Friendship and Cooperation between the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria was signed last August In this regard, my question to you is: is there, I am convinced that there is already, because we have had a conversation in this regard with you, what are the specific measures already........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u233	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, the transport link with the planned border crossings of the Republic of Macedonia is carried out through Republic Road III-1008 Strumiani "Razdol" border with the Republic of Macedonia, which has a total length of about 30 km. Since its construction more than 30 years ago the road has not been mainly repaired, another one by the way. Only partial patching and ballast deposits have been performed. In order to ensure the transport access to the border crossing, the API commissioned for a road maintenance company in Blagoevgrad region the development of a technological project for preventive repair of the first 16 km of the road. The section from km 0 to km 15+798. The project will include the repair of road pavement, the construction of banquets and trenches and the cleaning of drainage facilities, the cutting of shrubs, the laying of horizontal marking as necessary, of course, the restoration of vertical alarm and restrictive systems. According to the estimated estimate, the indicative value of the repair amounts to around 10 million. lv. Specifically, let the technology project be ready and I will give an exact number for the necessary amount for the repair. The renovation of the section is planned to start in this year, which I have already undertaken, including at the bilateral meeting in November 2017 between the government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia in Strumica, so in 2018 it will not only start, I am convinced that with accurate and effective actions of a road maintenance company will complete the repair of these almost 16 km from the existing route. For the remaining part of the route to the border with the Republic of Macedonia from km 15+798 to km 30+198 a partial reconstruction and new construction is envisaged. To date, the project documentation made for this segment in 2000 is not up to date, a new project is needed. In this regard, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to include in the Design Programme a technical project for the site in 2019. For its implementation it is necessary to conduct a public contract for the selection of a contractor of the design, as well as the conduct of procedures in the preparation and adoption of the PSU............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Once an up-to-date project has been developed, the establishment plan and the EIA report will be able to specify the specific value for the construction of this segment. When finalising the procedures for the design and field security of the site will be carried out the public procurement for the selection of a builder for the construction works, respectively the construction supervision of the site. The funny 13,000 are invested along the maintenance line. lv. back in time. The commitment on all the road we need to go is for the end of 2020, along with the design of the new section, its field security, to have a complete road to the border crossing point with the Republic of Macedonia. On their side, the road is ready. He needs rehab. We have made commitments by a Macedonian country to rehabilitate the road so that at the beginning of 2021 we have a new fourth border crossing for contact with the Republic of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u235	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u236	Dear Minister, thank you for your information. It is important and useful for the current factual situation and for the future concrete actions by you and by the Bulgarian government as a whole. This checkpoint seems to be a very fast-track south-west, but essentially it has a national dimension. Although raised repeatedly at different levels, including in this House, for the first time no half-hearted and purely clerical answer to the question is given. For the first time you are here from the high tribune of the National Assembly with accurate information, expertly supported, with figures, with deadlines. Administrations for all of this! This means that the MRDP has concrete and clear commitments, a concrete vision, a clear road map with deadlines, with the necessary technical parameters. I am convinced that what you have declared here at the end of 2020 this so important crossing will be a fact. It is important not only for small settlements in the municipality of Strumiani, which unfortunately have languishing functions, but is directly and indirectly important for all municipalities in Southwestern Bulgaria, for Pirin Macedonia, along the river Struma. There's a psychological moment here. Once this point is with brotherly Macedonia, it has its historical, lifelike and humane expression for all those who live in this region. We remain grateful for what you have expressed as a willingness and commitment to follow-up actions which I am convinced will be dressed in concrete actions and will thus be implemented with content the implementation of this waiting treaty of good neighbourliness and friendship with the Republic of Macedonia. Once again, gratitude for the information provided!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. It's a hole. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, for the thanks I have nothing to say, I do not know how well deserved they are, but with the commitments we have started real action. As a follow-up step, the Neighborhood Treaty with Macedonia has already been ratified by the National Assembly. It was signed last year and in January this year was ratified by the two governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Two more words in line with your question. To the north is our border point with Macedonia It connects Sofia and Kyustendil with northern Macedonia.. Kriva Palanka, Kumanovo, Skopje. About 35 km south of Blagoevgrad through Stanke Lisichkovo or Logagoj "Delchevo" Central Macedonia. All the way to the south is the connection Petrich "Slatarevo" - Novo selo, for South Macedonia - Strumitsa, Radovish, Prilep, Bitola and so on. We've got 100 kilometers without the checkpoint. We're not going to take history back in time. You know her better than I do. The Macedonian government has fulfilled its commitment, and our government since 2007 has failed to fulfil its commitment, perhaps for subjective reasons there has been PHARE funding, the contracts have been terminated, there is no funding. We have now secured 2020 and we will have a complete path. God willing, let's quickly finish the procedure for opening the border crossing so that we can have an adequate connection with Central Macedonia, Stip, Veles. This is the closest road to our resort
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the current state of implementation of the Contract for the implementation of the rehabilitation of water pipes from the water supply system of the town of Shumen under a contract for a guaranteed result from 8 January 2013 with a party to the contract. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, on the agenda for parliamentary control is once again the topic of Water and Water for a long time, which we have been debating here, but, unfortunately, neither the citizens nor I as MP see any development, and the condition of the water company is getting worse. One note. Today there is an official reply from the Director of the Water Company that the outstanding liabilities to date to the company amount to 5 million. 400,000. lv. I guess you're familiar with this thing. If not, you can hear it now to make a check. The specific issue relates to a contract of 8 March 2013 implementing the rehabilitation of water pipelines under the water supply system of the city of Shumen, which is a contract with a guaranteed result that was financed by a Japanese bank. It was run by a trading company. I'm not gonna quote names. As a party to the contract is the Water and Water. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: are there any cases brought under the quoted treaty, what is the impact of its implementation on the financial situation of the company, which is not colorful at all to date? Is there any evidence of crimes committed in the execution of the contract and have the competent authorities been contacted? What is the attitude of your office on this topic? Mr. Minister, I expect you to respond fully, as the citizens and subscribers of the Water and Water Department Shumen are extremely worried about this topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u242	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in connection with the rehabilitation of water mains owned by the Bulgarian Ministry of Justice, two contracts with guaranteed result were signed. The first one was from 8 October 2012, and the second one from 8 January 2013. Initially a contract with an estimated value of 3 million was announced. BGN for which documentation has purchased nine companies. No tender has been submitted within the specified time limit. This procedure was terminated, then a new negotiated procedure was opened without notice. The three participants received only one offer from the Union of SEM Sekisui Europe, which has been selected as a contractor. The leading partner in the unification is the Construction Mechanization and the town of Kazanlak. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 57,000. lv. without VAT, which replaces the first. It changed some of the parameters defining the type, location and length of the water lines. In essence, this contract amended the first one. The object is executed in two stages. The first stage of investigation, development of projects and carrying out of the MRI is completed. It also included ensuring the financing of the entire activity by the contractor, which is reflected in the contract according to the repayment plan. This plan provides for 84 equal monthly repayments of 60 thousand. lv. without VAT. The second phase includes monitoring activities, systematization and reporting of the results compared with the guaranteed and repayment by the contracting authority of the investment carried out. It is currently established that the criteria described in the contract are not correctly laid down and in the process of operation the estimated savings are substantially different from the actual result reported in the company. As a result of the failure to meet the project parameters, the company stopped the payment to the contractor company. As a result of the trade dispute, the contractor filed a partial lawsuit of 993 thousand. lv. Three sittings were held in the case, various experts were appointed and a fourth hearing was scheduled for 25 May this year. As a defendant in the case represented by the current governor, the Court of Justice has fully challenged the action on grounds and in terms of size. In addition, the water supply operator expressed a position that the case should be suspended. Some of the reasons are related to an investigation initiated by the company in respect of the public procurement and contracts concluded on the basis of it. As a basis, the findings and conclusions of an inspection carried out at the Company in 2015 by the authorities of ADFI were used. At present, there is a court proceedings sent for investigation by the National Investigation Service. The contractual obligation has a negative impact on the financial situation and the reporting of the "VIK" as it increases the amount of liabilities in its balance sheet. According to the company's data, the actual cash resources due to the investment carried out are at times less than those invested and therefore the repayment of the investment is not achieved. It should be noted that, at the moment, the plumbing operator has paid the VAT due to the transaction of 1 million. 11,000. lv. Given that a court case is still under way, expressing a final position is possible after the court's ruling, including on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, what you have heard is extremely disturbing because the water company is in decapitalization mode with the amounts you quoted earlier about the uncollected debts and the accounting loss that it generated for a previous reporting period. This calls into question not only the future supply and quality of drinking water, but in my and experts' judgement also calls into question future funding under operational programmes, which is expected to happen by the end of the year. You're the principal of the company. I think you could hardly argue that at the moment the management of this company is limping. I'll take a note. Today, the state in another company, the Shumen District Hospital, changed the management. On behalf of the citizens of Shumen district, I urge you to do so as soon as possible, because under the ugliness of the cost of water to grow without certain reasons and the loss of funds from European funding, you understand what the result will be for the citizens and for you as a principal. I expect you to take firm measures in this direction and the company's activities under the leadership of the Ministry will be introduced in the direction of improving water quality. People have been receiving water every month, which is not according to RZI data, but paid 3.60 BGN. the cubic, which is an extremely high price and does not meet the qualities of the water that should be obtained. According to my information, a large part of the funds not paid out by the citizens to the water company is because the quality of the service does not correspond to the point written in the contract. I hope this question will once again sharpen your attention and take the necessary measures to improve the operation of the water company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u245	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have objectively acknowledged to you some problems regarding the management of the company. They're not comparable. I'll give an argument as to why they're not comparable. The old leadership has entered into an unsuccessful contract with a guaranteed result. That's why we can't blame the current management. Regarding the quality of water, the Ministry's management has undertaken extremely rapid and urgent actions for rapid design outside the pre-investment study of the Drinking Water Purification Station at the Dam of Ticha and the water extraction system in order to be able before all other projects funded by Europe to launch the project in Shumen, so that the Sumerians in the foreseeable future can drink water with the necessary characteristics as water deserves in this year. According to the water supply, I will mention what are the problems related to the specific contract. First of all, during the course of the public procurement at estimated value of 3 million. lv. a contract has been concluded with the contractor for a value of more than 5 million. lv. This is considerably higher than expected. Secondly, during construction accounting, the total length of the rehabilitated sections of the water supply is changed in this case so that a total reduction of The unit prices of the CHMP in this situation increased, with the changes being made in a vague manner. Thirdly, the company's own research by reference to similar contracts announced through the Public Procurement Agency shows that the actual prices for the execution of such sites are significantly lower than those agreed with the contractor at that time. After the completion of the construction activities, in the course of proving the effect of the investment, the contracting authority puts fourth as a problem the criteria for establishing the effect for the company are not correctly set out in the contract. The cash receipts read differ substantially and are much less than the project receipts, i.e. they are not achieved. It is this economy that should have been a source of funds for the water supply operator for payment with the contractor and not funds from the operating costs, which should currently be directed at quite other activities, not to improve the water supply systems within the area served by the water supply operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u247	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Valentin Lambev concerning an unresolved problem with ensuring the safety of road I "4" in the section passing through Sheremetia village, Veliko Tarnovo municipality. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u248	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This is the second time I've asked him, Minister Nankov. In November, you made a commitment through me to the inhabitants of the village of Sheremetia, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, under appropriate, of course, weather conditions by the end of January this year to ensure the safety of pedestrians when crossing the Republican road I............................................................................... My question to you is: what are the reasons with today's date for your commitment not yet being realized and when will the safety of the villagers be ensured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u249	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lambev, the commitment made by the Road Infrastructure Agency will be carried out by me personally. I'll explain the reasons, and I'm sure you'll agree with them. The existing movement organisation in the section of road I "4" in the village of Sheremetia, introduced during the rehabilitation carried out in 2013, will be complemented, with a cross-border noisy marking that will strengthen the attention of drivers and reduce the speed of movement before the pedestrian path. Currently, urgent repairs are being carried out in the section of the Republican Road due to impaired performance of the road. After the winter period, due to the low temperatures, a number of local disorders occurred on the pavement that worsened the condition of the area. Repair works started in early April. Repair all types of damage and damage, milling is carried out all along the width of the road and removal of the deformities of the coating. Next, a flattening layer will be applied, a new wearing layer with solid asphalt concrete. For the renovation of the Agency's budget, 1 million were allocated to the Road Infrastructure Agency. lv. The time limit for the completion of the repair shall be by the end of May. At least I think you can give me another technology that it is not possible to make a noise marking before performing the activities of laying new asphalt. Upon completion of the repair activities, the horizontal marking will be restored, including the pedestrian path of road I "4" in the village of Sheremeta. Subject to strict compliance with the Regulation, which has a cassation to the case, the conditions for construction or installation on the lane for the movement of artificial bumps and other means of speed limitation shall be planned to apply a transverse noise marking, as I mentioned before the pedestrian path. This additional measure to the existing movement organisation will be approved with a constant protocol when it is adopted by a committee, which will have representatives from the Road Police. I would also like to recall that the quoted section falls into urbanised territory and all actions to introduce additional measures for securing sections of the Republican road should be carried out by joint actions of the Regional Road Management "Veliko Tarnovo," Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, the Road Police Sector "at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Veliko Tarnovo," according to the competences arising from the existing regulations of each competent institution. Another note: we mentioned, under appropriate weather conditions, that it would start in January and not start January in all conditions. I'm putting out the reasons why we haven't made the mark yet. In accordance with art. 30, para. 4 of the Roads Act, construction, repair and maintenance of underground facilities, sidewalks, bicycle lanes, parking lots, pedestrian subways, lighting and road landscaping along the Republican roads within the urban areas are organized by the respective municipality. In accordance with art. 48, t. 1b of the Rules for the Implementation of the Roads Act, the organisation of road maintenance activities are the responsibility of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the canvas or for the lanes for the movement of Republican roads within the urbanised areas for settlements with population up to 100 000 people. Therefore, the preparation of a project to install a pedestrian traffic light, quoting these regulations, is a commitment of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality and the issue should be addressed to it. I'll make it myself on your behalf. Regional road management suppose Veliko Tarnovo, as a territorial representative of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, will continue to take care of the state of the section and will take all necessary measures to ensure the safety of the movement along the Republican road. That is, once we do the repair of not small value, of a really delayed nature at the end of May, immediately after that we will also place the noise marking within three days. Today I will address the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo for organizing the setting of the traffic light, as we have committed to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u251	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Lambev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, thank you for this answer, as the problem is pressing. Solving it requires your cooperation and I would like to appeal through you to ask the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality to assist in the setting of this pedestrian light, as both residents and road safety specialists believe that a complex of measures is necessary, including the noise marking and the pedestrian light, so that we can secure the movement and passage through the road lane of the villagers. We'll keep an eye on the progress of the matter. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u253	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? I won't. We continue with the next question by the MP Nikolay Tishev about the upcoming new zoning of the country for the purposes of EU funds and statistics after 2020. Here you are, Mr. Tishev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in an interview on April 16th of this year Denitsa Nikolova, who is your Deputy Minister, said the following: Of the three proposed options for new zoning with six, five and four regions, there is a consensus about the division of the country in four regions: Danube, West, Black Sea and Thracian-Rodope. A few days before that Stoyan Passev, who is the regional governor of Varna region, after a meeting with the participation of other regional governors before the Bulgarian National Radio Varna, announced: "The four regions will be divided within the country's new statistical area of Central, Danube, Black Sea and West. Varna will be the center of the region. On April 17, 2018, after we raised the topic in Burgas, Dimitar Nikolov, mayor of Burgas, made the following comments: serious expert and public debate on the upcoming new regionalization of the state for the needs of EU funds and statistics after 2020, and the options proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works are at a very early stage. At some point they're at a very early stage, and your deputy says that after two months literally, i.e. by the middle of the year, the redesign should be completed. I have neither received a letter, nor somewhere, and have ever been invited by the mayors of the Southeastern region for opinion, for comment, for discussion about................................... to react and say officially the position of the region. The district administration is also as aware as the municipality of Burgas. We didn't miss anything, because nothing significant is happening and there's no way it's going to happen, and that's how Dimitar Nikolov ends up. In relation to the above, I ask the following two questions to you: first, when, where, and between whom did this prevailing "consensus" occur, which your deputy Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova spoke about? Secondly, have talks and discussions been held with mayors, regional governors, regional structures and so on of the six currently active districts and, in particular, representatives of the Southeast region? Who has assured the Varna district governor that a Black Sea planning area will be established, including Burgas and Varna with centre Varna, provided that his speech and that of the representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works sound identical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, under Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 establishing a common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes, the so-called nut system has established criteria for the eligible population of territorial units at each level. The minimum population for an area of level nut system 2 is 800,000 people, and the maximum number is 3,000,000 people. In the period from the last census in 2011 to 2016, there was a decrease in the population of all levels 2 regions in Bulgaria according to official data of the National Statistical Institute, but the process was particularly pronounced in relation to the North-West, North-Central region, and for the North-West as early as 2014 values were reached below the threshold of 800,000 people, according to data from the National Statistical Institute, for 2017 the number of the population of the North-Central region is also below the minimum threshold. In 2017, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works formed an interdepartmental working group which, after the meetings held, unanimously defined three options for a new territorial scope of the level 2 regions with four, five and six regions of the proposed more than ten similar options. The working group with experts from the academic community, from competent ministries, agencies, including the National Statistical Institute, the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria defined as the priority three options of four, five and six regions. In January 2018, the Council of Ministers approved a report which gave me a mandate to present the three identified options for wide public discussion at national and regional level. Immediately afterwards, we presented to the general public proposals for a new zoning and launched a public campaign. Currently, the options are presented at meetings of the Regional Development Councils in the six level 2 regions as regional development policy bodies. In addition, on 25 April 2018, the three options proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as five additional proposals received in the public consultation process, were presented and discussed at a round table with the participation of employers' and workers' organizations at national level, NGOs and academic and university institutions, and are to be discussed at the Regional Policy Council at the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. On 10 April 2018, at the meeting of the Regional Development Council of the South East Region, held in the town of Stara Zagora, Ms Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, presented the three proposals for a new zoning to the members of the Council. The Regional Council for the Development of the South East Region is composed of representatives of the municipalities of each district included in the region of each municipality. However, at the quoted meeting in the town of Stara Zagora, some of the municipalities in Burgas region were not present and did not take part in the discussion. In addition, it should be borne in mind that at the meeting of the Regional Development Council of the North East Region on 12 April 2018 in Varna, the point for discussing the new proposals for a new territorial scope of the level 2 regions of the future districts has dropped out of the agenda due to the objective inability of Deputy Minister Denitsa Nikolova to participate in the meeting and to present them. In this regard, no one gave confidence to the governor of the district, I refer to Mr. Passev, there was no representative of the Ministry that was chosen with four districts, and that the city of Varna will be the center of the Black Sea region. The proposals for the new territorial scope of the level 2 regions were discussed two weeks later at a meeting of the Regional Development Council of the North East Region, held in the city of Dobrich, not in Varna on 26 April. This Decision shall What is the broad range of stakeholders and organizations? In the discussions initiated by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, you can see on our website, I can give you a public list of all invited on the topic, because under the Regional Development Act we have a narrow range of institutions to be invited, we have expanded it in times and as representation, and as a field of action of academic, non-governmental organizations and other circles. In conclusion, it should be noted that at this stage the options do not contain proposals for determining centres and district names. They do not foresee changes in the boundaries of administrative districts and municipalities or changing their administrative centres. A speculation that was made precisely among the Burgas public and not only this week in Burgas, and from this tribune I declare: Varna, what you referred to and quoted as a concern and concern of the Burgas public and the Burgas population, will not pull the strings of Burgas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u257	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u258	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! That's a pretty leaky answer. It is good that you state that Varna will not pull the strings of Burgas. You didn't answer the question, after all: which option of these three which examines the Ministry of Regional Development will be chosen? Keep in mind that we had a meeting on our initiative here in the National Assembly and you there for quite a long time advocated the thesis that the best is the option of the four districts. In other words, there should be a Black Sea region, it is your specialty, you have studied the issue and in all canons of the theory and practice Burgas and Varna should be in one region. Now that you have seen the consolidated position of all MPs from Burgas, you have become a little more flexible and you have said that we can talk about this. Keep in mind something else from today "The Honorable Minister," we MPs from Burgas, Yambol, Sliven and Stara Zagora, who insist on maintaining the current territorial scope of the Southeastern planning area as proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development 1 and 3. We absolutely reject Option 2. I want this to be clear so that I do not be very talkative and long-term, not to take away from the time of other colleagues who have questions. However, my wish is this: I want from this high tribune of the National Assembly to become now in the duplicate and to say that the Southeast Development Region will be preserved as it is: that is to Burgas, Yambol, Sliven and Stara Zagora Burgas will remain their center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u259	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You have the right to dodge.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, in the first place, has not been initiated by you because you said us. It was initiated by Ivelina Vassileva. In my personal capacity, when I was invited, I suppose you were on a date, and so I was informed. Secondly, unlike many others, back in time perhaps not only ministers, but in some other historical periods of Bulgaria in the government were made single decisions. As a pragmatist, you quoted theory 5. Not as a pragmatist, but as a biological person, I have always listened to the voice of both society and experts on the subject, of course, and when it is necessary and in your voice, the Members of the National Assembly, when it is necessary, in this case you do not have the legal authority on the subject. I listened to your voice, I said right after the meeting, if you remember that these arguments will be taken into consideration. Don't ask me to jump over and overstep my authority, to answer precisely from this high tribune. This negates all the process of public discussions and consultations that will continue within the next two to three months, including in Burgas. Let us not depreciate them with a single person of mine, because the decision is not mine, it is not yours, of course, it will also be taken by the Council of Ministers, but also by you, the MPs, through a change in the Law on Regional Development, which is imperative. All arguments, not only have I heard from you, and many, I fear, do not suit committee chairmen in the current National Assembly, as the Chairman of the Economic Commission, for example, is still mistaken development area and NUTS 2 area is an economic zone. [[Reply.]] No, they have no similarity, they may be mutually dependent, but they have nothing in common as regulation, as well as logic, and as execution with the content of these... even in terminological and practical incisions, different structures. Yeah, this meeting helped me out a lot, and I'm saying it completely frankly. I am also convinced of the colleagues on whom the future territorial division will depend for statistical needs at NUTS 2 level, i.e. future areas of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u261	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev and is about strengthening a landslide and collapse located on road II-63, part of the Republican road network in the territory of Pernik region, in order to avoid risk to people and non-profit sites. You have the floor, Mr. Bonev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Republican Road II-63 is a second-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passing entirely along the territory of Pernik district. The total length is 68 km. Republican Road II-63, connects the municipalities of Breznik, Tran and the settlements to them with the district center of Pernik, providing the main access from across the country to border-control checkpoint at the Bulgarian Serb border. From the registered landslides on the territory of Pernik region and affecting the roads from the Republican road network, the landslides on II-63 are from km 7+000 to km 7+620 village of Meshtitsa and kilometre 22+900 near Breznik and pose a serious danger to the moving vehicles. The same landslides aren't registered, Minister. My question to you is: given the importance of the route, is it foreseen and when are the landslides on route II-63, from km 7+000 to km 7+620 village of Meshtitsa, municipality Pernik and km 22+900 near the town of Breznik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u263	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, on the occasion of your previous inquiry about how many and which landslides are located in close proximity to and on roads from the Republican road network on the territory of Pernik District, I have informed you that there are no other landslides affecting the Republican road in the Register of landslides, in addition on the road I-6 Kyustendil Pernik at km 72+300. I informed you in writing about it in detail, including in addition to a description of the section and the landslide processes, and also the measures that API has taken to select a contractor to carry out research and design works and construction of the site. In view of the above, I note that there are no landslide processes registered on the road II-63. The second-class road is a major road artery connecting the municipalities of Breznik and Trun with the district centre of Pernik, and it is part of the road connection with the Republic of Serbia, the so-called Western outskirts. Between 2010 and 2011 the section from km 7+620 to km 19+720 was rehabilitated and is in good operational condition. At present, in separate small sections are observed deformities that are being renovated under the program "Current repair and maintenance of API." The site is part of Lot 14, filled with funds under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" 2007-2013. The value of the construction works is just over 6 million. lv. The division from km 4+700 to km 7+620 was renovated more than 40 years ago, and in the subdivision from km 7+000 to km 7+620 there is a failure of the right lane. Over the years, repairs have been carried out with funds from the budget for the maintenance of Republican roads in the region of Pernik worth 35 000 BGN. with VAT: local repair is carried out in the section from km 5+000 to km 7+000; a tube tank has been renovated with displaced pipes. The repairs have restored the integrity of the facility. Despite the efforts made, there is again a failure of the road. Complete repair is needed. In the sections at km 23+000 on the right lane and km 24+200 on the left lane, road II-63 is entirely in a high embankment, which is re-moistened by nearby ravines. In 2015, a pilot-anker system was implemented in the sections. The funds invested in the implementation of the repairs are worth almost BGN 300,000 with VAT, provided by the API budget under the program for ongoing maintenance. During the daily tours carried out by the specialists of Regional Road Management Pernik, there are new falls on the road in sections immediately before and after the above-mentioned kilometers, including the ones quoted in your question, km 22+900 near Breznik. These deformities on the road are the result not only of over-wet terrain, but also of intensive traffic in heavy goods trucks transporting timber and vehicles from Serbia. In order to limit the damage to road traffic and to ensure the passage of Republican road II-63, API experts jointly with representatives of the Institute of Roads and Bridges will be performing within a short period of time by the end of the month, not to be so active, considering the compromised sections, in order to assess what measures should be taken to strengthen road pavement. Depending on the findings and the necessary financial resources, API will include the sites in its repair program in 2019, but, yes, it is a fact, are not found as landslides registered in the Registers of landslides in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u265	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u266	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, everything you said about the data and numbers for road II-63 correspond to the truth, especially around Breznik the road is strengthened in the right side of the canvas. Currently it has fallen to the left and it is appropriate that these falls, including Meshtitsa, at km 7+600 and on Breznik 20+900 be registered as landslides, so that we do not have to pay for it every year during the current repairs, because this will not in any way solve the problems of the road. For the II-63 road I have repeatedly asked you questions from this tribune, including in writing the condition of the road is desperate, I would say catastrophic. It's been a long time since the operating hours, almost 40 years. Yes, there are two lots that are made, but they represent less than 25% of the total length of the track, yet this is an international road. Urgent and urgent measures must be taken for the falls, which in themselves are landslides, to register and strengthen themselves in order to ensure the safe movement of people travelling on road II 63. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u267	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u268	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, one more commitment I will take as a result of your question. We've already concluded the new contracts, you know, with the geodefense companies. This activity is extremely underfunded. I am committed together with my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency and my colleagues from the Institute for Roads and Bridges, to jointly send colleagues from the Geoprotective House to judge again. They have visited the site and their expert opinion is that we are not talking about a landslide. It's a landslide process, yes, but it's not a landslide. In order to satisfy this concern, if they really need to be entered and registered as such, to include them in the Landing Register, I would emphasise that. I'll make arrangements for monitoring and checking to be carried out next week. I know about the workload and really with my personal gratitude for the correctness of the question and the reply, yes, the road is loaded and financial resources will be provided for its most critical part, but indeed within the framework of the 2019 budget. You realize what our options are within the current budget, they will not be leading at the beginning of 2019, but we hope that with the implementation of the Tol system we will have more serious revenue. Apart from that, only as good news, two of the landslides financed under the "Environment" programme, as a person interested in geodefense activity, I allow myself to supplement my answer in the denture, have already been approved, meaning we have a financial resource available. In Northwestern Bulgaria are both, there are six more on Republican roads, you know, I have reported them to the Regional Commission who they are, to be introduced as application forms. Not enough resources, but we still managed to fight for 62 million in the previous term. lv. from the Operational Programme of the Environment, namely to strengthen landslides, and our ministry is a beneficiary of the programme and to carry out monitoring of the new's construction of some of the really significant and active landslides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u269	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev, about administrative services by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the patience we have shown to ask today and this question to you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria there have been received numerous signals about problems in the administrative service of citizens and companies by the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster related to many inaccuracies in the cadastral maps and non-compliance with the established deadlines for administrative service. Let me also give a specific example. A client of the Agency pays a double fee for an express service, but the time limit for the express service is still not met by the explanation that experts are overwhelmed by work and case files. In cases where we have received information, elementary cases and the absence of wines by the applicant are concerned to delay the provision of the service requested to the Agency. As a result of similar actions by the administration of the Sofia Office of the Agency, citizens informed us of significant damage and lost benefits as a result of failed property transactions due to delays in the issuance of documents by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. It would be interesting to do a check on the number of delayed specifically in the Sofia branch of the Agency files. We heard that the Council of Ministers approved changes to the Agency's rules of procedure the other day in order to increase the efficiency of the administrative service of citizens and businesses. From the motives of the decision we understand that in order to meet the increased needs, the number of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre increases by 20 stats and becomes 417 pieces. The increase is at the expense of the number of the Directorate for National and Construction Control. It is right to say that transferring numbers does not automatically provide prepared people. There remains also the problem of paying the experts and stimulating them, which is adequate to their load and responsibility. It is noted that the reasons for the decision of the Council of Ministers do not mention a word for another reason which led to the blocking of the Agency's work, namely the quality of the cadastral maps and cadastral registers for the unurbanized territory, by transforming the maps of the restored property and the quality of the cadastral maps and cadastral registers for the urbanised territory. The infinite inaccuracies and obvious factual errors contained therein create a huge number of problematic case files that lead to the problems mentioned above in the service of citizens and companies. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: are you informed about the problems in the work of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency, what is the nature of the most common problems and what measures will you take to sanction them and overcome them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u271	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u272	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, Mr. Bonev! Only one factual inaccuracies is no longer available in the Cadasta express service for more than one year, so the information is not accurate. Fast yes, but express no. By the end of 2016, the systematic creation of the cadastral map covered 22% of the country's territory. The significant delay in the process of creating a cadastral and property register led to the development and adoption of the concept of accelerated creation of a cadastral map and cadastral registers in 2015 and to accelerate the process of creating a property register by the Council of Ministers. 52 staff members from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have been transferred to the Agency in order to carry out this activity. These figures are mainly used for the conversion activities of the data from the cadastral map of the restored property, i.e. not by service and issue of the relevant documents, which is a service which the Agency provides to the user of this service. The scope of the territory with approved cadastral map and cadastral registers is 52%, including for the territory of the entire Sofia Municipality. You know, the last area in which a cadastral map will be accepted remains. By the end of 2018, the growth of sites with an approved cadastral map is expected to increase and the coverage will reach more than 90%. The increase in territory from the country with a cadastral map with another 30% in just two years has led to a significant increase in the volume of work in all services, especially in Sofia, because in the last four years we have a 45% increase in the volume of work, as a result of the new areas adopted with a cadastral map. In addition to activities related to new sites, error-fixing and service provision, employees are engaged in control and acceptance of the cadastral map and cadastral registers. The measures taken to improve the quality of the Cadastral data. I'll tell you what they are in the last few months. The administrative service shall cover both the maintenance of a cadastral card and a cadastral registry in an up-to-date state, including the removal of errors in the cadastral card and the introduction of new data and the issuance of official certification documents. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the quality of the data in the cadastral map is conditioned by the quality of the primary sources for its creation a map of restored property and previous cadastral plans. For the removal of errors in the cadastral map and cadastral registers, a regulatory procedure is available that we have simplified, thanks to you as MPs, with legal changes, on our proposal and on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which ensures the participation of owners of the affected properties, which in turn requires a certain technological time, as we are talking about property rights. The amendments to the Cadastral Act and the property register of 2016, which I mentioned, have created an opportunity to conduct procedures for resolving problems in the case of discrepancies between urbanised and unurbanised territory and when finding obvious factual errors in the unurbanised territory. A new procedure has been laid down to remedy the obvious factual errors found in the unurbanised territory, much faster and as deadlines. An opportunity has been created to remedy the manifest factual error by awarding these activities by the Agency with State budget funds. For property owners whose boundaries are inaccurately defined in their recovery, the removal of errors will be carried out free of charge, precisely with these regulatory changes and carried out free of charge. Not to list all the other administrative regulatory changes that we have made, as we are progressing over time. I will only mention in addition the new planning plan that you mentioned. Yeah, mechanical transfer, but we're not talking mechanical. We have a free state somewhere that's incomplete. At the moment, not that the DNC has remained with fewer functions or with many people, just unoccupied staff because of the urgent activities that must be carried out mainly in the Sofia office, we managed with the changes in Wednesday's regulations accordingly to secure a state. We'll fill them as quickly as possible with people with the necessary expertise. Apart from that in Sofia, except in the central building of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster, eight more offices are working. These are agency employees. We've opened two new offices, the other six employees of Sofia Municipality are working. Thirdly, as an urgent measure, since the beginning of May, the envisaged possibility has been applied in the Cadastral and Property Register Act, namely the Municipal Agriculture and Forestry Services, to assist the Agency in administrative service for the unurbanised territories, in cases outside Sofia, that is to say, to be able to issue official certification documents to the interested parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u273	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bonev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u274	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the legal framework that outlines the work of the Cadastral Agency, these are the Law on the Reconstruction of Property on Forests and Land from the Forest Fund, the Law on Property, the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, the Law on Municipal Property, the Law on State Property, the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, and this is only a small part of the regulatory framework. Regarding the conversion of the Map of Restored Property into Cadastral Cards, I expect from you the methodology that you have personally promised me to provide because its transformation so far is under unclear rules beyond the scope of the regulatory framework. With the conversion of the Map of restored property into cadastral maps, we repeat and multiply the errors in the restoration of the properties in the early 1990s, which unfortunately prove to be an excessive percentage of the current plans for land separation and so-called maps for restored property. Because, Minister, I don't know who guarantees the accuracy and quality of the new cadastral maps, given that this is done by the Cadastral Agency and she approves of them herself. How is the correct coverage of property ownership also guaranteed because this affects every Bulgarian citizen? How will linear and area objects be reflected and correctly applied in the newly formed cadastral maps, with mechanical transformation on a wrong or incomplete basis? When, Minister, the Cadastral Law and the property register within the scope of Article will finally be respected. 10, para. 3, i.e. for the provision of administrative services? Geodesy, cartography and cadastral services create structures, divisions in the headquarters of district courts and other settlements, i.e. in any administrative area with a district court there should be a Cadastral Office! In conclusion, Mr. Minister, I would say that all this leads to gaps and errors that are being removed with too slow procedures and entirely at the expense of the owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u275	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, for one thing you are right about the commitment of KBC. Next week on Wednesday, you have a working day. On Wednesday you receive the methodology to know by which rules. It's not a secret, by the way, which I really apologize for. The other findings were rather absolutating some of them not to call them political, because you mixed politics with expertise, but, to say that entirely, at the expense of not. On the contrary, with the regulatory changes, with the administrative practice, the exact reverse processes of two years, and especially in the last year, we manage not only to lead, but to carry out by way of the free removal of inaccuracies by colleagues from the Agency. Apart from that, you know that some of the problems do not depend on the cadastral. The Cadaster is not a court to say whose property it is, because sometimes we have municipal undisclosed property, and we have a private property. Two ownership acts shall be submitted to the Agency when creating a cadastral card or conversion. You know how to solve such disputes by court order. In Student City we have cases with three types of property property. It's a lawsuit. Regarding the accelerated creation of a cadastral map and errors in KBC, I am convinced that with the methodology, and not only, but with the control, which is created by this methodology, the very opposite "CCS" will become much more accurate in their future transposition and implementation in the cadastral map. Thirdly, the big problem, the global problem of the Cadastre, what is it? It was drawn, by the way, on Dutch terms, that was the logic of the World Bank when 2001 created the Agency. When the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral was created, the logic was that it was imperfect, that it was not imperfect, that it was inaccurate, but very fast, because we very well know how the land was restored within real limits after the end of that regime. So the logic at the moment of both the law and the procedures are extremely correct and accurate, without violating people's property rights.. Quickly, in a service order, of course, after evidence from the affected owner, at the expense of the state authority. What's the big, global problem with the Agency? More and more coverage of the country, more services, more and more applications, especially in Sofia, the same state. We're talking extensive work here. Therefore, we also remove the express service that my colleague Danchev mentioned because in three days there is no way to request a simple document. A sketch, for example, to be checked, as it is said, by both a lawyer and competent geodesists engineers, and to provide the service, because we are still talking about protecting the property and not only the property rights of the Bulgarian citizens. The problem will get bigger and bigger. That is why the Cadastral is an increasingly future source of revenue for the state budget -- about the revenue-cost ratio -- is twice as much in favour of the Agency's revenue. Here is my battle with the Ministry of Finance to convince colleagues from the Ministry of Finance that the Agency should have more people, as there are more activities. She's intense. It doesn't depend on capacity or what the specific specialist has in his head. On the contrary, we're talking about a window service where it's still being serviced. [[Heckling]] You all know the services are digitized and there is an opportunity in the cadastral to become an electronic delivery, with an electronic signature and even with electronic requests. We've simplified and eased the procedure, all bureaucratic and administrative. Even the citizen of Sofia has the right to declare receipt of the sketch in Burgas after three days with an electronic request. Thirty percent is even cheaper service. How many requests in Sofia? Seven percent! [[Heckling]] Seven percent electronically. [[Heckling]] Yeah, an ad campaign, help us out. The more electronic requests by electronic means, the easier, faster and more accurate citizens will be served. For all the other problems he has at the Agency, you're right, there are problems. I am not convinced that they are, how can I say, out of bad faith, bad intentions and intentions of the management of the Agency. If necessary, I will take specific action there, either in the Sofia ministry or in others. Maybe the system needs a little more prioritization as a national policy. This is my personal opinion and the problem I mentioned with people, because the effect is avalanche, when with 40 people you serve 30% of the territory of Sofia and with 40 people you serve 100% of the territory of Sofia, it cannot happen. In Sofia the last few months we have turnover with seven people left, the other thirty-three jobs are in times more. We're making ourselves clear where the problem comes from. So we're taking action. These 20 units go to Sofia with better salaries, with higher remuneration so that we can solve, as they say, palatically at the moment, but conceptually, sustainable, long-term we also have to approach in a slightly more pragmatic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-04.u277	That was the last question for Minister Nankov today. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in parliamentary control. Today you have demonstrated physical endurance, mental sustainability, and have been able to answer all the questions asked. Dear Members of the Parliament, next plenary session on a regular basis from 9 May, at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
