ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear Members, today is the first Wednesday of the month, so the agenda is formed according to the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There was a proposal from the political party GERB's parliamentary group to consider a second vote on the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2017. The first vote was adopted on 13 December 2017. Proposals from the other parliamentary groups have not been received. I'll read you the program: "2." Second vote on the Bill on Physical Education and Sports. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2017. The first vote was adopted on 13 December 2017. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018. 4. Second vote on the bill amending the Commercial Law. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017. Adopted in first vote on 12 September 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importers: Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. He was accepted at the first vote on 27 July 2018. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. The first vote was adopted on 19 September 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 4 October 2018 8. A bill amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project concluded by Exchange of Letters. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. 11. Election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 12 September 2018. Point 1 for Friday, 5 October 2018 12. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 111, none, abstention 45. The proposal for an agenda has been accepted. There was also a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National Representative Vesela Lecheva proposes that the first vote of the Draft Law on amendment and supplement of the Youth Act, No 754-01-36 of 5 July 2017 should be included on the National Assembly's agenda for the period 3 October 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Lecheva, to defend your proposal within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria will take advantage of the law given by the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the fifth time in a row to present to your attention the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act. As you can see, the entire parliamentary group is here to support this desire. I am sure that dozens of youth organisations and hundreds of young people expect the MPs to support their wishes for their legitimization to local and state institutions, for their national representation to be written in law. Moreover, today, here in plenary, will be the Minister of Youth and Sports, who may also actively participate in the debates of this law. I am sure that the Minister of Youth will attend dozens of youth meetings, especially in Varna, where young people defend their desired demands for example for youth spaces or youth sites, as described in the Youth Act. Mr. Minister, I hope you will protect their wishes, all the more so that you were also part of their declarations, which you defended in these meetings. I hope that the people's representation this time will protect our desire as care and attention for young people and include as an item on the agenda the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Vesela Lecheva for inclusion on the agenda of the point Vote 166 MPs: for 73, against 28, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I'll introduce you to a few messages. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for procedure.]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Lecheva explained why it is important. Please let the MPs vote, invite them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Please, re-vote procedure. They voted 163 MPs: for 75, against 43, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. [[The National Representative Lachezar Ivanov wants the floor for a negative vote.]] Mr. Ivanov, come in. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria: "You have no right to a negative vote, this was a procedure. "]] It was a re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u6	I'll do the procedure then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u7	You have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking this procedure to note to the President that we are trying to bring this bill here twice before and I am surprised why the political party of old and experienced has not scored its bill under art. 53, para. 8 And it is my procedure that this law of the National Assembly could have been put in place in peace. Perhaps inside the party you have no idea what kind of bill you want to insert. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u9	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u10	These votes absolutely show the weakness of the party's policy, which is considered highly opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u12	Thank you, Madam President. It is good that when colleagues speak here, from this tribune, they should still get acquainted with the Houses..... to know when they can do so under para............................... 8 a law must be introduced, what time has it expired, and whether it has expired, so that it may be submitted under para. 8. In this regard, Madam President, I invite you to address the Chairs of the committees concerned. It is about the Law on concessions, which was introduced three months ago.......................... on 11 July...................................................................... This is about critical infrastructure such as Sofia Airport. I understand the desire of the government to concession this important facility for Bulgaria, but let us still look at this law in committees. Please invite the committee presidents to put it on the agenda. For three months he sits on logs, sits blocked in committees and cannot be submitted to plenary because committee chairmen simply refuse to look at him in the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I invite committee chairmen to reconsider their items on the agenda. Procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. I was sad for you, I miss you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I'll make sure you don't miss me so much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u15	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u16	Write that down: I miss you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u17	Madam President, I'm addressing you with a request. Call on Members of the National Assembly who do not have the democratic way of thinking and who believe that their right is the only right to express and dictate the way this National Assembly works, to lightly become aware and to look at the Rules, because you cannot deprive a parliamentary group or accuse them of tabling a bill and to claim that this is a violation of the Rules or some political game. It's not a political game, it's our wish that this law will enter as quickly as possible. Please pay attention to those MPs who do not know what this is about or do not like youth and sport and what we have proposed to develop for the benefit of the young people of Bulgaria, to sit in their seats because otherwise they become ridiculous and at least undermine the authority of the government. Not that he's very tall, but there's still something left. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u18	Mr. Ermenkov, I cannot oblige anyone to speak. Parliament is a democratic body and we are gathered here to give our opinions and to defend our positions. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is all about the agenda and the events of last night. In July, when we were practically in October, then three months ago, we submitted the Personal Aid Act, since July until now we have found no power to examine the National Assembly. We offered a bunch of things, we brought in the bill, we offered to work in August, you said, "No, September, everything will be fine." I understand that he probably somehow has to contact the Social Services Act, but the Social Services Act in October is not ready yet, and the Personal Aid Act has not entered! Yesterday those people intercepted the Eagle Bridge. By the way, I was there, there was no one from you. And in my opinion, there was no one here because you're ashamed! Please, in the fastest possible way to move the Personal Aid Act through the committees and, respectively, enter the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I'll answer your question. There was a coordination of all three laws at once to get into committees and to look at each other. There was such coordination. We are expecting the other two bills - the bill for people with disabilities will pass at any moment through the Council of Ministers and the other Social Services Act will be expected at the end of November. I strictly respect what the three laws are about to enter the Social Committee at once. Messages: - On 28 September 2018, in accordance with point (c) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 [3] should be amended accordingly. 2 et c. 3 of a decision of the National Assembly of 20 July 2018, adopted in connection with the debates on a question by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the Government on migration in Bulgaria and Europe, was made by the Council of Ministers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - On 28 September 2018, in implementation of a decision of the National Assembly of 5 April 2018, adopted in connection with debates on questions by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the field of heat supply, was received by the Minister of Energy Report on the technical condition and operational fitness of the energy sites in the country in the field of heat supply. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - An audit report for the audit of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, with an opinion of the Court of Auditors on the report on the implementation of the Fund for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that due to an amendment of the plan for joint preparation of the Permanent Armed Forces of NATO has changed its order and authorised the dispatch of a military vessel from the members of the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria from 9 October 2018 to 16 November 2018 in the Black Sea area, Black Sea Strait zone and Aegean Sea, and the territorial waters of the Republic of Georgia and the Republic of Turkey for participation in joint preparation. The notification was received on 28 September 2018, with the exception of: No 803-09-5427 and granted to the Defence Committee. - The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund (FTB) on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 August 2018 to 24 September 2018 and Protocol No 40 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund from 27 September 2018, where the report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the minutes were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute received information on the economic situation, September 2018; price indices of a producer on the domestic and international market in industry, August 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Declaration? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u21	Madam President, honourable Members! A referendum was held Sunday in our neighbouring Republic of Macedonia and there the proud Macedonian people spoke very precisely and categorically about the issues they were asked about. Before I get to the point, I will give you some statistical results of referendums that were held in Bulgaria. Do you support the MPs to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? The number of Bulgarian citizens voted around three and a half million did not exactly sum me up, but you remember very well that somewhere around 12 thousand votes were not enough to be recognized at three and a half million voted, this referendum for mandatory. Similar results are found for the other two questions. Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev? I will also give you another example of the previous referendum, which was related to whether there should be a nuclear power plant: 60.6 Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that the results of these two referendums were not recognised as valid because of the lack of a minimum number of Bulgarian citizens voted to pass the percentage of the previous elections, as by law. And as you know very well, neither the importers of one referendum, nor the importers of the other, nor us, as importers of one of the referendums, where 530 thousand Bulgarian citizens had signed, but in the end, 400,000 valid signatures were brought to 398 thousand, and no one complied with the will of these Bulgarian citizens. Why am I telling you all this? I am telling you this because, against the background of what is happening in our country, it sounds somewhat ridiculous what I am going to read to you right now, and this is Mrs Zaharieva's position in connection with the referendum in Macedonia. She says: The citizens had a free choice and more than 90% of those who voted in this consultative referendum expressed a strong desire the country to be part of the European and Euro-Atlantic community. Their voice is visible and clear, which is why it cannot be ignored! And now, because all of us are silent, opposition, alternative, Patriots, greater patriots, it turns out that this pasquil is the official position of the Bulgarian state, given that the main thing is that two thirds of the proud Macedonian people said that they did not agree on this shameful treaty. Our proposal, of the political party, is to come up with a declaration by the Bulgarian Parliament in which to be consistent in our decisions. And if really seventy percent, eighty percent of the Bulgarian people, when they voted for certain points because of 12 thousand votes, they did not become valid is the same issue with Macedonia. To support the Macedonian people, to say that the result of this referendum is indeed visible that it punishes self-forgotten politicians in Macedonia and we support them to continue on their path of freedom, independence, of defending their national interests! I am also using this opportunity to introduce you to another moment, which is already related to life in Bulgaria. It has been said that in recent times it has become a modern one and we will give you a basis on which this can be done. According to calculations that are now offered by the Ministry of Health if 12 leva. additionally taken by every Bulgarian citizen, health care in Bulgaria will solve all problems and every Bulgarian citizen will receive this decent health care that he deserves. According to our calculations, in the sense that everyone can do this, we are talking about about 500 million leva per year - even in our opinion less: about 400 to 500 million leva per year, and this is the solution of one of the biggest problems in Bulgaria - health care, plus education, internal security, income and so on. If only one of the biggest problems, however, one of the three-four biggest problems in Bulgaria, can be solved with this 400 to 500 million a year, the clear solution is further imposed that we have to stop the looting deal to buy several planes, which will be pointless listening here and generals have said that we do not have pilots to drive them, but with this money, so it turns out that it will be the contribution to them Well, let's ask the Bulgarian people after they gave us an example in Macedonia, to ask the Bulgarian people: he wants airplanes or health care, wants airplanes or education? Let's make a referendum on this topic! Why are we scared? Let's ask them! And if, in the end, instead of eight planes, we can have decent healthcare, what is more important for the Bulgarian people and Bulgaria as a country? I call on you once again to consider this investment expenditure, which we have so generously approved, and to redirect this money to the contributions of Bulgarian citizens to health care, to solve at least this problem in Bulgaria so that the Bulgarians can live decently and be healthy, to raise healthy children so that our nation can continue to exist! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: A SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS, No 702-01-25. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 13 December 2017. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u23	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the House Mrs. Vanya Koleva Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u24	Please vote on the procedure so made. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Koleva to the hall. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u25	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u26	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law on the text of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u27	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u28	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter 1 to the Commission report to the vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u29	Under art. 1 has a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Article 1 (1) is replaced by the following: The law regulates public relations related to the development and management of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports activities in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u30	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Lecheva, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor with regard to our proposal to withdraw. Our parliamentary group has always stated that sport should be a national achievement, not a party, we should view it as a national policy, not a party policy. We also consider the Law, of course, as the Constitution also enjoins: as one of the basic social rights for access to sport for every Bulgarian citizen. That is why we believe that in the subject and scope of the Sports Act the law of the Bulgarian citizen should be developed for access to sport. We agreed to participate in both the working group in terms of our proposals and the discussion between first and second readings, mostly from the thought that the MPs should participate in order to give that opportunity to all Bulgarian citizens and young people to participate in sports activities, sports activities. I dare say the debate and discussion have been very helpful. We have made this law of restribution administration to be mitigated. I dare say that the sports community and the tensions it had could rather be satisfied with the participation of our representatives in the working group. We withdrew our proposal because I believe that philosophy cannot be changed by just a few proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u33	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The purpose of the Law is to: 1. ensure the organization of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports tourism; 2. create conditions for the development of physical activity, physical education, sport and tourist activities; 3. provide the opportunity to develop the sports potential of the nation by creating conditions for practicing sports for excellence; 4. promote investment for the construction and management of sports sites and their use in the public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u34	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 2 on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u35	Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The development and management of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports tourism are based on the following principles: 1. publicity, transparency and protection of public interest; 2. interaction between state and local authorities and sports organisations; 3. free choice of means and forms of activities with physical activity, sport and tourist activity; 4. equal opportunities for access to activities of physical activity, sport and sports-touristic activity and non-discrimination; 5. Observation of generally accepted values in sport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u36	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 3 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u37	Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 3. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 4. Art. 4. Physical activity, physical education, sports and sports-touristic activities carry out educational, health, social, cultural and rehabilitation functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u38	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the created new article. 4 supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u39	Under art. 4 there is a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The introductory sentence is amended as follows: The state provides and promotes the development of health-enhancing motor activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity such as: 2. in point 2, the words "sports for all' shall be replaced by "sports in leisure time' and the word "Students' shall be replaced by "University'; 5. in point 13 after the word "pedagogical', the words "skilling' are added; 8. point 16 is amended as follows:.16. establishing conditions for the development of public-private partnership in the sport and sports activities system by protecting the interests of sports and tourist organisations in the physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity; 10. point 18: "18" shall be created. creates conditions for the realization of a sports product. The proposals referred to in points 4, 6 and 7 have been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and 9 and doesn't support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4 which becomes art. 5. Art. 5. (1) State policy in the field of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports tourism shall be carried out through: 1. creating conditions and supporting activities with physical activity, physical education, sports and tourist activities; 2. creating conditions and supporting the development of sports for all, including children-youth, school and student sports; 3. creating conditions for the development of sport for excellence and supporting the preparation and participation of national and Olympic teams in international competitions and Olympic Games; 4. creating conditions and supporting the preparation and holding of world and European championships and cups, as well as regional sports competitions, which are hosted by the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. the construction, renovation and management of sports sites of state property; 6. the provision of sports sites of state property, for the practice of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity; 7. support, coordination and control the activities of sports organisations; 8. taking measures to comply with anti-opping rules and the fight against the use of doping in sports; 9. taking measures to ensure the safety of sporting objects; 10. creating conditions for career development of athletes; 11. creating conditions for training and improving the qualification of sports and pedagogical staff; 12. promoting research and applied activity in the field of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-tourism; 13. establishing conditions for the development of public-private partnership in the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-tourist activity through the award of concession; 14. ensuring access of people with disabilities to the sports sites of state property. (2) The National Assembly shall adopt a National Strategy for the Development of Physical Activity, Physical Education, Sports and Tourist Activity for a period of 12 years (National Strategy).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u40	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a proposal related to the hosting and holding of the Olympic Games in Bulgaria. The last two weeks talked as a new opportunity for Bulgaria to host the Olympic Games. I believe that this is the place, in this chapter, for state policy to be described as the powers of the National Assembly, the decision to apply and hold the Olympic Games. I believe and believe that an application can only be successful when it has its institutional support in Bulgaria. So far Bulgaria has applied several times to host the Olympic Games, of course, failed. But in order for a candidate to be successful, it must have its own political support, apart from the support of people and society and sports organisations, of course, and its institutional support. It is further written in the powers of the Minister to give permission to apply and conduct the Olympics, but I believe that the National Assembly is the format and status of political and national support that must be implemented and signed in the Law. That's why I propose to al. 2 to have t. 1 with the following text: The National Assembly adopts a decision to apply and hold Olympic Games in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the Commission I drew attention to this issue, it is listed further in the Law to the powers of the Minister of Sport. Therefore, I propose that as a place to be within the powers of the National Assembly to para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I don't see any speeches. First, I will put to the vote Mrs. Lecheva's editorial amendment to para. 2. 100 MPs voted: 33, Against 14, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 4 which becomes art. 5 on the Commission report. Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposals by the Commission of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. They voted 101 MPs: 24, Against 11, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 4 which becomes art. 5 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 101, against no, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u43	Proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 t. 9 is amended as Nine. create conditions for the development of public-private partnership in the system of sport and sports-tourist activities by protecting the interests of sports and sports-tourist organisations; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5 which becomes art. 6: Art. 6. Municipal policy in the field of physical activity, physical education, sport and tourist activity is carried out by: 1. Financial support for the development of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports activities in accordance with the national programme under art. 7, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. creating conditions for practicing sports and sports-touristic activities and access to sports sites 3. construction, renovation and management of the sports sites of municipal property; 4. providing assistance for the organization of sporting events in the territory of the municipality; 5. establishing conditions for the development of public-private partnership in the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-tourist activity through the award of concession; 6. ensuring access of disabled people to the sports sites of municipal property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u44	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. They voted 105 MPs: 32, against 27, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 5 which becomes art. 6 on the Commission's report. They voted 105 MPs: 95, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u45	Article 6? a proposal by Mrs. Boryana Georgieva. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Ministry of Youth and Sports shall keep public records for: 1. sports clubs; 2. professional sports clubs; 3. the united sports clubs; 4. sports federations; 5. sports associations; 6. The National Social Sports Organization; 7. The National Organisation for Sports and Tourist Activities; 8. the National Football Union; 9. persons freelance in the field of physical education and sport; 10. sports and sports tourism sites; 11. sports and pedagogical and management staff. 2. Alinea 4 is out. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u46	Allinei 3 and 4 are out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u47	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u48	Alinea 3 is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u49	That's why I don't read al. 3, colleagues, because it is supported. Alinea 4 is out, al. Three is already backed up. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 concerning para. 3, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new Article. Nine, and he doesn't support the rest of it. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 6 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u50	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported part of Ms. Lecheva's proposal, Chenchev, Prodanov. They voted 109 MPs: 31, against 27, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 6. They voted 107 MPs: 106, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u51	Chapter 2................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u52	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of Chapter Two, supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u53	Article 7 supposed by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 7 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 3 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u54	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the motion to reject art. 7 as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 3. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u55	Article 8 supposed by the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 8 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u56	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 8 which is reflected in the new Article. 4. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u57	Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: "1." Article 3 is replaced by the following: 8a: "The mandate of the National Assembly. "2." after each Olympic cycle of the winter and summer Olympics within 6 months adopt a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Physical Education, Sports and Sports-Turistic Activity; 3. adopt decisions for applying and holding of Olympic Games in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. define national sports and tourist sites according to Annexes 1 and 2 to this Law and regulate their status. 2. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 8b and 8c: National Council for Physical Education, Sports and Tourist Activities. Status and functions. Art. 8b. (1) The National Council for Physical Education, Sports and Sports and Tourist Activities, hereinafter referred to as the National Council, is an advisory body of the Council of Ministers for the coordination of the activities of the state administration and public sports organizations in the national system of physical education, sport and social tourism. The term of office of the National Council shall be up to 60 days after the holding of parliamentary elections and the designation of its new composition. (2) The National Council shall organise its activities under the rules established by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Physical Education and Sports. The National Council shall meet at least once a quarter. (3) The President of the National Council shall be appointed by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal from the Prime Minister. The Vice-Presidents shall be elected by the National Council. (4) The composition of the National Council shall be determined on a quota principle, including the heads of: 1. ministries and departments directly related to the development of the national system of physical education, sport and tourism; 2. The Bulgarian Olympic Committee and the Paralympic Committee; 3. Bulgarian Football Union; 4. national social sports and tourism organisations; 5. Bulgarian sports federations on the Olympic sports; 6. the Bulgarian sports federations of the Neolympic sports; 7. the Bulgarian Scientific Community and the Rector of the National Sports Academy; 8. the nationally represented organizations and unions of employers; 9. prominent coaches and athletes; 10. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and the state trade companies with the principal Ministry of Youth and Sports. Art. 8c. (1) The National Council shall be associated with the government of a senior advisory body whose main responsibility is the implementation of a single, consolidated and long-term state policy on strategic aspects of the development of the national system of physical education, sport and social tourism. (2) The National Council shall express positions and opinions, make proposals and prepare draft decisions, bringing together the interests of sports and sports tourism organisations and the activities of the government, local authorities of power, business, as well as national interests in the field of public health, economy and social integration through sport and social tourism. (3) The Council shall draw up its position and inform the Government of the legislation, draft concepts and strategic development programmes affecting sport and tourism. The Council shall develop proposals on the size of state funds for sport, principles, ratios and basic guidelines for the allocation of state subsidies and investments in sports and sports-touristic infrastructure. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 in the part concerning Art. 8a. c. 1 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 5, para. 2 in the version of the Commission and does not support it in the rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u58	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. They voted 104 MPs: 30, 33, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u59	Under art. 9 has a proposal by Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 5, para. 2 in the version of the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 7. Art. 7. The Council of Ministers shall define the main guidelines for the development of state policy in the physical activity system, physical education, sport and sports activities such as: 1. submit for adoption by the National Assembly the National Strategy; 2. adopt the National Programme for the Development of Physical Activity, Physical Education, Sports and Sports-Turistic Activity for a period of 4 years; 3. adopt measures to promote priority sports activities; 4. adopt a National Strategy to combat the use of doping in sport; 5. adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Antidopping Center; 6. adopt the Rules of Procedure of the State Enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u60	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 9 which becomes Art. 7 on the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u61	Under art. 10 has a proposal by Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. New points 1 and 2 are created: "1." participate in the work of the National Council under art. 8b; 2. manage the register under art. 6, para. 1, t. 2. points 1 3 ssssssssssss, 5sssssssssss, 3sssssssss, 5ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 4. points 5 "8" become respectively. 7..10; 5 point 9 becomes t. 11, in which the word "supplied' is replaced by "squire' and the word "licensed' is replaced by "swipes'; 6. points 10 " 14" become respectively. 12 8. point 16 is t. 17; 9 point 17 is t. 18, in which the word "swishes' is replaced at the beginning of the sentence by "supports'; 10. A new item is created. 19: "19." entrusts and controls the management of state programmes provided for the implementation of sports and sports tourism organizations under art. 38;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied;supplied; 11. points 18 and 19 become respectively points 20 and 21. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and 7 and doesn't support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 8. Art. 8. The Minister for Youth and Sports conducts state policy by: 1. develop and submit for approval by the Council of Ministers of the National Strategy; 2. develop and import for adoption by the Council of Ministers of the national programme under art. 7, p. 2 and measures to promote priority sports activities; 3. approve programmes in implementation of the national programme under art. 7, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. interacts with the state and local authorities and sports organizations in the implementation of the National Strategy and the National Programme; 5. assist sports organisations and other persons in the cases provided for in the law; 6. creates conditions for research and applied activity in the field of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports activities; 7. exercise control under this law; 8. assist financially the preparation and participation of Bulgarian athletes at the Olympic and Paralympic Games; 9. propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers the rules of the Antidopping Center and of the State-owned enterprise 10. validates the use of the revenues from the activities of the State Enterprise 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act in agreement with the Minister of Finance; 11. establish a list of military applied sports on a proposal from the Minister of Defence; 12. issue, refuse, revoke and terminate sports licenses; 13. lead and maintain the registers under Art. 13. 9, para. 1; 14. conclude international contracts for cooperation in the field of sport under the competence conferred on it by the Council of Ministers; 15. allows the holding of Olympic Games, World and European Championships and Cups, as well as regional sports competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 16. interact with the competent state and local authorities in the fight against violence and anti-social events in sport; 17. organise and support information and awareness campaigns to prevent the use of prohibited substances and prohibited methods in sport, anti-social events during sports events, as well as promoting healthy lifestyles and strengthening health physical activity; 18. accept criteria and order for the award of athletes, sports specialists and actors; award for merit in the field of sports with an honorary sign. 19. appoint the Executive Director of the Antidopping Centre and the Management Board of the State Enterprise 20. implements other powers defined by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u62	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. They voted 100 MPs: 29, against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 10, which becomes art. 8 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u63	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports shall keep public records for: 1. the licensed sports federations and sports clubs their members; 2. the national organisation for sports and tourist activities, the national organisation for university sport and the united sports clubs, as well as their members; 3. sports objects; 4. Coaching footage. (2) The Registers under para. 1 shall be maintained in an open machine readable format. The circumstances to be entered, the keeping and keeping of registers, the procedures which ensure the functioning of registers as a single information system and the access of other administrative authorities to the data therein shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister for Youth and Sports. (3) The entries in the registers under para. 1 circumstances are available on the website of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. (4) The administrative authorities in the implementation of complex administrative services may not require from the applicants of administrative services certificates for those entered in the registers under para. 1 circumstances...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u64	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new article. 9, supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u65	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: 11 is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10: Art. 10. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports may establish an advisory unit - Expert Council on Physical Activity, Physical Education, Sports and Sports-Turistic Activity. (2) The composition, functions and organisation of the activities of the Expert Council on Physical Activity, Physical Education, Sports and Sports-Turistic Activity shall be determined by order of the Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u66	You didn't read the title in front of the Minister of Youth and Sports. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. They voted 91 MPs: 28, against 29, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 84, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u67	"Chapter 3" - Sports Organizations. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u68	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the names of Chapter 3 and Section I, supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u69	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Sports organizations are sports clubs, joint sports clubs, sports federations, sports associations, National Public Sports Organization, National Football Union and Bulgarian Olympic Committee. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: sport organizations shall carry out their accounts under the Accounting and National Accounting Standards Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. (1) Sports organizations shall develop and promote sport by carrying out training, racing and organizational and administrative activities by sport. (2) Sports organizations are sports clubs and sports federations. (3) Sports organizations shall assist in the implementation of state and municipal policy in the system of physical activity, physical education and sport and shall participate in the implementation of the National Strategy and the National Programme under art. 7, p. 2. (4) Sporting organisations shall keep separate accounting and distinguish income, expenses, assets and liabilities related to: 1. economic and non-economic activities, if any; 2. the activities which are subject to public support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u70	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. They voted 97 MPs: 21, against 33, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 84, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u71	Section II - Sports Clubs (Sports Clubs). The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u72	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the Section supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u73	Under art. 13 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 17. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 after the verb is added to the association of citizens. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12: Art. 12. (1) Sport clubs shall be non-profit associations or capital companies which organise the practice and development of physical activity and sport through individual and group sports activities. (2) The sports clubs shall be: 1. Sports club for the development of one or similar sports and sports club for the development of military applied sports included in the list under art. 8, p. 11; 2. A multisport club for the development of more than one sport, practiced on a uniting principle. (3) Sports Club by para. 2, p. 1 may be a member of only one sports federation, and a sports club under para. 2, p. 2 - only one multi-spore federation. (4) The transformation of a sports club does not lead to a change of its rankings or of its teams in championships and competitions, as well as to their transition from one group to another.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u74	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. 90 MPs voted: 19 against 34, 37 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u75	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Multisport Club under Art. 12, para. 2, p. 2 is created by any of the following unifying principles for sport practice: 1. for students, students and/or persons who are trained in professional colleges; 2. for people with disabilities; H. for people in and above working age; 4. for military and armed personnel; 5. for employees of the Ministry of Interior system; 6. for employees of the National Security Service; 7. Another unifying principle in the field of sport for all. (2) In school, a support center for personal development, professional college, university and office and/or within its structure can be established only one multi-sport club in unifying principle. (3) Multisport Club under para. 2 shall be established after authorisation by the relevant management body and may include in the name concepts related to the name of the school, the support centre for personal development, the professional college, the university, the office or its structure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u76	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 13 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u77	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 43, para. Art. 4 and art. 62, para. 5. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Stefan Apostolov, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. Sport clubs must meet the following requirements: 1. its name shall include the word "club" and words indicating the performance of sports activities; 2. its activity shall include physical activity, sport or a corresponding unifying principle under art. 13, para. 1; 3. to have a contract with coaching staff on the relevant type of sport, and if it is a multi-sport club, at least one type of sport in which their rights and obligations are regulated; 4. to only be members of natural persons when it is a non-profit association, except for sports clubs under art. 43, para. 1, t. 2 of which may be the founder of a higher school.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u78	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u79	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 15: Art. 15. (1) A sports club may be a member of a licensed sports federation if it meets the requirements of art. 14 and: 1. is not a member of another sports federation, respectively a multi-sporting federation, except in cases where the law expressly allows it to be a member of more than one sports federation; 2. the members of its management body are not related persons, and 3. the members of its management body and associated persons shall not be members of a management body of another sports club which is a member of the same sports federation. (2) For admission as a member of a sports federation, the sports club shall present: 1. declaration according to the model of art. 21, para. 1, t. 8 for its compliance with the requirements of para. 1; 2. a list of the sample according to art. 21, para. 1, t. 9 and evidence of the education, professional competence, qualification and experience of the persons involved in the training, training and competition at the club, as well as contracts with those persons; 3. a list of the sample according to art. 21, para. 1, t. 14 of the sports sites of the club with applied property documents, leases or leases or preliminary contracts for the conclusion of a final contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u80	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new art. 15. Vote 94 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u81	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 12 and Art. 62 in the version of the Commission and in a new Article. 43. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 15 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 12 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. 15 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: 75, none, abstention 17. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u83	Under art. 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The documents for membership of a sports club in a sports federation shall be submitted within 12 months of the date of its registration with the Agency of the The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and does not support it by t. 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) Sports Club shall be entered, respectively deleted from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the Minister for Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him on the basis of a decision to adopt, respectively exclusion of the club as a member of a licensed sports federation. (2) The decision of the sports federation under para. 1 shall be taken in accordance with its statutes and shall be motivated. (3) Within 30 days of the adoption of the decision under para. 1 The sports federation shall apply for entry, respectively deletion of the sports club from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. One, which he immediately informs him of. (4) When within the term under para. 3 The sports federation has not applied for entry in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1, the application shall be submitted by the sports club. (5) The applications under para. 3 and 4 may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and of the Law on Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u84	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 27, against 32, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Manev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The question is this: in para. 4 of the text which we will now vote on is provided for the regime by which the club may request entry upon expiry of the 30-day period. In the task force, we talked about having the same right to write off. The same rights the club to apply on expiry of the 30-day period to have a write-off. As we introduce a regime then the number of clubs in the federations to give them license rights and so on, and we cannot deprive the club if it applies for leaving the Federation and it refuses to write it off, to hold it only as a front club, to deprive the club of those rights to request discharge. The proposal is to add it to para. 4: When in the term under para. 3 The sports federation has not applied for an entry/unsubscription of the club from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1, the application shall be submitted by the sports club.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u87	It exists in paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u88	In paragraph 4, there is only an entry, there is no write-off. The proposal is to add a "unsubscribe." It's a technical thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u89	I understand, Mr. Manev. I will put to the vote the editorial amendments made by the national representative Manoil Manev. Vote 98 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 16, with editorial amendments to the proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev, who were adopted. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u90	Under art. 17 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 13. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 17 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new article. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u91	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. 17 by text of the importer. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u92	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Sports Clubs: 1. organize sports activities of citizens and practice physical activity and sport; 2. provide sports services; 3. organize and conduct training activities; 4. organize and conduct a competitive activity; 5. organise sports competitions after approval by the relevant sports federation; 6. participate in sports competitions under conditions and by order defined by the relevant sports federation; 7. propose to the relevant sports federations the provision, termination and withdrawal of competitive rights to athletes and the settlement of relations in relation to them; 8. apply for funding and support by public funds by order determined by law; 9. hold the rights of advertising, television and radio broadcasting of sports competitions organised by them in a line defined by the relevant sports federation; 10. build, acquire, enjoy and manage sports objects; 11. implement other activities related to development, promotion and promotion of physical activity, physical education and sport. (2) Sports Club which is not a member of a licensed sports federation and is not entered in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 shall not carry out the activities under para. 1, t. 4 "9" except in the case of art. 25, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u93	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 17 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u94	Under art. 18 has a proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 43. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 18 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new article. 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text in art. 18 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: 89, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u96	"Department III "Sports Federations ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u97	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall vote on the name by importer of Section III, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u98	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 18: Art. 18. (1) Sports federations shall be non-profit associations for the pursuit of public utility activities which have obtained a sport license for one or similar types of sport, including military-applied sports or sports license for the development of more than one sport on a uniting principle. In sports federations can only be members of sports clubs. (2) Sports federations shall be: 1. Federation of one or similar types of sport, including the Sports Federation of Military Applied Sports, included in the list under art. 8, p. 11; 2. a multi-spore federation for the development of more than one sport in one unifying principle. (3) The Sports Federation shall represent its members to the state bodies and international sports organisations. (4) Sports federations may associate for mutual assistance and development of a joint activity in the field of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u99	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 19 which becomes Art. 18. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u100	Under art. 20 has a proposal by Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 18 and art. 62 in the version of the Commission. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 20 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 18 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u101	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 20 by importer. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u102	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 21 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 18 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u103	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 21 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u104	"Department IV "Licensing." The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section IV and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u105	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the name of Section IV by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u106	Under art. 22 has a proposal by Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The authorisation procedure shall be applied in the assessment and/or categorisation of: 1. sports objects and facilities; 2. Clubs and professional sports clubs according to the statutes and regulations of the public sports and tourism organizations and unions. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: sport registration in the Ministry of Youth and Sports is subject to sports clubs and united sports clubs and to only one sports organisation under art. 12, para. 2 and it's timeless. 3. In para. 3 the word "sports license" is replaced by "sports license" and the words "sports license" are replaced by "sports registration." The Commission supports the proposal on this. 4 and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 19: Art. 19. (1) A sport licence shall only be issued on one: 1. Sports Federation by Art. 18, para. 2, p. 1; 2. a multi-sporting federation by art. 18, para. 2, p. 2. (2) The sports license shall be unlimited.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u107	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 24, against 38, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 22, which becomes Art. 19. Vote 94 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u108	Under art. 23 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The proposal referred to in point (b) is made. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Kristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. the introductory sentence is amended as follows: 6, para. 1 must: 4. points 6, 7 and 8 5 point 9 becomes t. 6. 6 point 10 is t. 7, and in it the word........ at the beginning of the sentence is replaced by............................................................................................... at the beginning of the sentence is replaced 7. points 11 " 13" become respectively. 8... 10..... 10.............................................................................. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and 3 and doesn't support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 20: Art. 20. A sports licence may be issued to a sports federation if it meets the following requirements: 1. is listed in the register of non-profit legal entities for carrying out a socially useful activity; 2. is not declared bankrupt or is not in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings; 3. there are no public obligations to be enforced to the State or the municipality, as well as any overdue obligations to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, unless any deferral or deferral of obligations is permitted; 4. the statutes shall contain activities related to physical activity, physical education, type or types of sport as the main subject of activity; 5. have as members not less than 7 sports clubs with headquarters in at least three administrative areas in the country which meet the requirements of art. 15; 6. there are contracts concluded or its members have concluded contracts with coach staff complying with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 97, para. 6; 7. there is an adopted 4-year programme for the development of the relevant type of sport which is in accordance with the national programme under art. 7, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. have adopted annual sports calendar for competitions and state sports calendar and rules for its conduct; 9. have or have its members have sporting facilities on the territory of the country for the development of training and racing activities for the type of sport; 10. there are adopted rules on the status of amateur athletes and professional athletes for the acquisition, termination and withdrawal of racing rights of athletes only for federations in one or similar types of sport; 11. there is a budget adopted by the General Assembly for the calendar year concerned. 12. there are adopted rules for the performance of sports activities which are in accordance with the rules of the international sports organisation, if any.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u109	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs in its unsupported part by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 39 abstentions 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 23, which becomes art. 20. They voted 93 MPs: 84, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u110	Under art. 24 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Kristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) 1 to 5 points are dropped. (b) New items shall be created. 1? 4: "1." up-to-date statutes; "2." information on the international sports organisation in which he is a member (where appropriate); "3." an application or document certifying membership of a national or international organisation (where appropriate); "4." a list of the members of the association; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) 2. in para. 3 words................................................................................. 7, 8, 11, 12 and 14 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The Sports Federation shall apply on a template for the issue of a sports licence indicating the applicant's particulars to which they apply: 1. founding protocol; 2. Statute; 3. a description of the activities by type or similar types of sport for which a sports licence is requested and for multi-sport federations by unifying principle............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. information on the international sports organisation by model, if any; 5. rules for the performance of sports activities in accordance with the rules of the international sports organisation under point 5. 4 if any; 6. Application for membership or document certifying membership of an international sports organisation under point 6. 4 if any; 7. a list by model of the sports club members of the applicant, with a single identification code specified and the acts for their admission as members; 8. a statement in a template of compliance with the requirements of art. 15 for the members of the applicant; 9. a list of the model and evidence of the education, professional competence, qualification and experience of the persons carrying out the training, training and competition in the members of the applicant, as well as the contracts with those persons; 10. Programs under art. 20, p. 7 and the instrument of acceptance; 11. rules for holding competitions from the state sports calendar and the act of acceptance; 12. annual sports calendar for competitions and the act of acceptance; 13. rules on the status of amateur athletes and professional athletes for the acquisition, termination and withdrawal of athletes' racing rights and the act of their acceptance only for a sports federation in one or similar types of sport; 14. List according to the model of sports objects under art. 20, p. 9 with applied property documents, leases or leases or preliminary contracts for the conclusion of a final contract after issuing a sports licence; 15. budget of the association and the act of acceptance. (2) The samples under para. 1 shall be validated by order of the Minister of Youth and Sports and published on the website of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. (3) The documents under para. 1 shall be presented in original or certified copies by the applicant. The documents under para. 1, t. 7, 9, 10 and 12 shall also be presented on electronic media. (4) The application and the documents annexed thereto shall be submitted in Bulgarian. Documents in a foreign language are accompanied by accurate translation into Bulgarian. (5) The application and the documents attached to it may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and of the Law on Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 22, against 30, abstaining 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 24, which becomes Art. 21. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u112	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him shall rule on the application and the documents attached to him under art. 21, para. 1 with a reasoned order within 4 months of its submission. (2) In the event of deficiencies or discrepancies, the applicant shall be informed at the address indicated in the application to remove incompletes or discrepancies within 14 days of notification. The term under para. 1 shall cease until incompleteness or inconsistencies have been resolved or the expiry of the period referred to in the first sentence. The notification may also be made by electronic means if the applicant has indicated that he wishes to receive messages in this way. (3) Where another or more applications from other applicants for the same sport or unifying principle occur during the examination of an application for a sport licence in one or similar types of sport or in one unifying principle, all applications shall be considered at the same time. (4) When the applications under para. 3 meet the requirements of the Law, selection shall be carried out by assessing the abilities of applicants for the development and administration of the relevant sport on the basis of a number of member sports clubs, coaches and sports outlets. (5) Paragraph 2 shall not apply when two or more applications for a sports licence have been received and at least one of them complies with the requirements of the Law. (6) The Minister for Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him may request further information and advice from state authorities, external experts and organisations on the documents and information submitted by the applicant. (7) The Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him shall issue a sports licence where there are no grounds for refusal and shall enter the sports federation and the sports clubs of his members in the register of art. 9, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u113	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 25, which becomes art. 22. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u114	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him with a reasoned order shall refuse the issue of a sports licence where: 1. there is a sports licence issued for the activity for which the applicant applies to another sports federation under art. 18, para. 2, p. 1 or sports license in a unifying principle of another multi-sporting federation under art. 18, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the applicant does not comply with the requirements of the Law and the incompleteness or discrepancies have not been removed within the period under art. 22, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. The applicant has submitted incorrect data or false documents. (2) A new application for the issue of a sports licence by the applicant may be submitted no earlier than 12 months after the entry into force of the order under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u115	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 26, which becomes Art. 23. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u116	Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the introductory sentence, the words "the sport licence' shall be replaced by "the stop' or "the registration'. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." do not start operating under its statutes and concluded contracts with the Ministry of Youth and Sport within 6 months of the issue of the sports registration. (b) point 2 shall be deleted; (c) points 3 and 8 become points 2 and 7 respectively; 3. in para. 3: (a) a new sentence shall be created; in such cases and within that period the Minister may suspend the operation of the licence. b) sentence two becomes sentence three. 4. in para. 4 at the end of the sentence, the point after the word "Federation" shall be replaced by a comma and the following text shall be added: 1. the sports organisation is excluded from the national and/or international organisation in which it is a member; 2. is declared bankrupt or liquidation; 3. merge with another organization and change its subject of activity; 4. it has been deleted from the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities of the Ministry of Justice and of the Agency for the Deputies. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him with a reasoned order shall withdraw the sports licence where the sports federation: 1. does not meet the requirement under Article 1. 20; 2. has submitted incorrect data or false documents which have served as grounds for issuing the sports licence; 3. has allowed the conduct of systemic violations of the anti-opping rules under art. 90, para. 4; 4. has committed or allowed systematic violations of this law or its implementing acts, other than those referred to in paragraph 4. 3; 5. do not start operating according to the programme under art. 20, p. 7 within 6 months of the issue of the sports licence; 6. do not submit within 6 months of the issue of the sports license a final contract under art. 21, para. 1, t. 14; 7. have overdue liabilities related to the use of sporting facilities. property of commercial companies with 50 or more than 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital; 8. has spent illegal or not, as intended, the cash provided under this law; 9. has not submitted within the time limit the documents referred to in Article 9. 30, para. 2 or the documents submitted do not comply with the requirements of this Law; 10. there is no state sports calendar adopted for the relevant year or has not fulfilled the adopted for the previous year; 11. a forced administrative measure has not been implemented; 12. shall be suspended or suspended from membership of the relevant international sports organisation with the entry into force of the international organisation. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 5 The Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him shall withdraw the sports licence if the Sports Federation fails to fulfil its obligations within two months of their failure to comply. (3) The Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him with a reasoned order shall terminate the sports licence: 1. by written application of the sports federation; 2. upon deletion of the registration of the legal person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u117	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. Vote 100 MPs: 28 against 38, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 27, which becomes art. 24. Vote 98 MPs: 79, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Part of the MPs from GERB's parliamentary group are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u118	I'll wait for my colleagues to come out and then I'll start the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u119	Colleagues, even if you go out, please be quiet to allow Mr. Kutev to express his position! Please continue, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I appreciate a high regard for our declaration and accept that it is not an attitude towards BSP. Our declaration will be dedicated to the mothers of children with disabilities. I think it's quite indicative of the way you react. We'll move on, of course. After all, the story doesn't end with you. Dear colleagues, I take the floor for a declaration on behalf of the BSP because yesterday was a special day for me. Specially made it the protest of mothers for children with disabilities. For me yesterday's protest of mothers and all disabled people showed that there is a living civil society in Bulgaria that is able to control power, any power, regardless of who represents it. These fragile women have shown more courage than the majority of men in today's power, headed by the Prime Minister. No one until yesterday believed that several mothers tortured by hardship and moneylessness would have the courage and strength to oppose the practice of the entire country. Colleagues, in the last few months, these women have seen the ugliest face of the pseudo-democracy we live in. In fact, what happened was that they threatened them, they separated them, they warned them, they advised them concerned, they duplicated their tent camp. In practice, they had to get acquainted with all the defects of our political system just because they had dared to protest. They stood up. From what I can tell, they're not gonna give up. I think that it is right for all of us to welcome them and to support them, to support them both with action and with real efforts. What's the problem, anyway? The problem is in the same majority at least that's how I see it. I have already said dozens of times from the National Assembly's stands that in the Plan for Integration of Disabled People, adopted by a majority of GERB in Borisov's first government, it is clearly written that in 2016 a Law on Social Services was to be adopted to regulate this activity. It is clear at the moment that today, in October 2018, such a law will hardly be passed by the end of the year. At best, it can be presented for discussion, but it will not be accepted, so we are two years late from your own plan. It is clear that, in the meantime, at least the Commission, which I run in the National Assembly, a year and a half ago at one of the first meetings, made clear the question of this law. A year and a half very clearly within this Parliament was the question that the Social Services Act was extremely necessary. Today we are once again told that once you see it, it was terribly complicated and would not be ready by the end of the year. So, how many years do you guys need? You put it in your plan in 2009, we are now 2018. Nine years you have not been able to write a Social Services Act that concerns the poorest, most tortured part of our population, for which no one and nowhere have had any differences with you about the fact that the state is obliged to provide them, because there is no other way. These are the people most vulnerable to the system. And you couldn't write the Law for nine years, and now we're gonna have to postpone it again. By delaying the Social Services Act, he, of course, goes beyond the budgetary procedure at the end of the year, which means that whatever this law provides, whatever social services he provides for these people, cannot be used within this budgetary year. At best, it stays for the next one if you accept it by the next. Because they, where nine, there and 11 years, if you make that much. It's one of the laws. The second law is the Personal Aid Act, which I have already signed with the clear awareness that it does not solve problems as they should be solved. I signed the Law with the clear awareness that it is actually a motivation and catalyst for you to do your job because the Law on Social Services the opposition cannot write. The Social Services Act should turn the whole system upside down and this is not done by opposition MPs. This must be done by the Ministry, by the government and respectively by you as MPs of the majority. That is why, after all, I submitted the Personal Aid Act and signed it, together with colleagues, of course. We signed it with the idea that it should catalyze your process, for God's sake, to enter into the Social Services Act in an appropriate way the Personal Aid Act, where it is its systematic place. However, it is a fact that you are not yet ready with the second law, and we are now three months waiting for you to enter the Personal Aid Act for discussion. At the moment, by the way, in the Law on Persons with Disabilities, you have a lot of disputes, but you do have the Law on Persons with Disabilities anyway. I was very hoping, and this morning I was doing a procedure, the Personal Aid Act along with the Disabilities Act to come in for discussion. This morning we all heard Mrs. Karayancheva, who clearly told me that the three laws will enter together with the Social Services Act, at the earliest at the end of November. You just said it three hours ago from that tribune. At the same time, only half an hour ago, at the meeting outside with the disabled, you promised that within a month the laws would be passed. I don't know who to trust, whether Tsveta Karayancheva or your representatives who were at the meeting of the disabled people? But, you guys, you're contradicting each other! We assume that Tsveta Karayancheva wasn't aware of it. We assume she doesn't understand enough. Now why is that there? I don't know, but we assume it is! We accept that you will be able to bring in both laws now and for people with disabilities and for personal help. I seriously doubt that you will accept the laws, especially the ones for personal help, because it is brought by us and not by you. So we'll have a next fight there, but we'll leave it for later. What's important to me? In our committee, i.e. within this Parliament, all these three laws have been spoken for a year and a half, from the first days of parliament, and people with disabilities with seven, eight national protests have already been doing so for more than 10 years. For ten years these people have been hanging on the streets, walking, waving their black flags, wearing their black T-shirts, and so far all they have is promises and delaying deadlines! Because when in June and July, we offered to work in August, you didn't tell them that the Social Services Act would be ready at the end of the year. No one came out of you to say, "People, it's not going to be September, it's not going to be October." It could be November, but it would rather be December... Such a thing was not told to them, because if you had said it, they would not have stopped in the summer and perhaps you would no longer be in power. [[Replication by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]] It's about responsibility, because I hear Mr. Ivanov resents it here. The question here is responsibility, because when you make commitments and do not fulfill them, there is a form of responsibility. I don't know what yours is.! [[(Comments from GERB:....And what is ……]] There's one more thing in all this prolonged sitting and inaction of power. Why haven't you done it so far?! Why isn't the Social Services Act really ready throughout this nine-year period? My fellow Members, I'm sorry, but I only have one explanation! This is neither the lack of money nor the lack of desire on your part. I, too, see that the Minister of Labour is willing to do it. Unfortunately, the only clear conclusion is: you can't! You don't have the competence to do that. When I say "You are" I do not only mean the MPs, but rather I mean the Ministry, which works and perhaps the people in the administration. But the fact that you can't write a key law for nine years means only one incompetence! Here the problem is neither money nor desire, but that you cannot do it. That's why, when you submit this law in a few months, you will actually face a real freight train. That's why you're putting it off because you know that when you submit this law, you can't get the interests inside. You will face the huge part of the resistance when you bring it in! When you submit the Law, the resistance will be stronger than before you bring it in! That's something you're going to learn in person. There's one more thing. Once again, we promised half an hour ago to the disabled outside, that we would get together tomorrow and make a decision. We talked about this four months ago at a meeting organized by the BSP, which you attended. Tsvetanov personally promised it and said how from tomorrow we do some working groups, do some miracles and things happen. Nothing happened in those four months except that we introduced the Personal Aid Act, not you. Nothing else has happened in practice in legal peace! Now what do we promise them? Tomorrow let's all gather together, we will add the Minister of Finance there, the Minister of Education will gather all the ministers. Okay, we already promised that. For me, however, the question is: when all the ministers are gathered and if each of them has to assume their responsibility, where is Borisov? Isn't it obvious now that by letting Biser Petkov handle these disabled people alone, he can't do the job? Because it is clear to all of us that the problems of people with disabilities depend on the Regional Ministry, depend on the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, far from just the Ministry of Labour. Where's Borisov? Obviously, until Borisov personally deals with this, I have deep doubts that when Borisov deals with something personally, it is happening, but it is a fact that when the Prime Minister is not in this topic, it means only one thing he is aware that you will screw up, and transfer to the lower levels to blow the fuse! He tried to do it with Minister Petkov once before. The same people wouldn't let him do it. What I see will happen by the end of the year is that you will not accept our Law, but you will bring in two of your laws that will not work. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. You will include two of your laws that will not work, they will blow up your system and eventually you will have fired ministers instead of a prime minister. The only thing you can do in this case is: either in a month you end all this drama, or you go! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A statement? You have the floor for a statement on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the last statement from this high tribune, BSP proved that demagogy and lies are a kept business card for them. Once again, you are manipulating public opinion and not only public opinion, but also the opinion of the children's mothers with disabilities, riding again the political protest and mocking the grief of the people. It's not true that nothing has been done so far. During the last four months, two new laws have been actively worked on. The Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Social Services. They're ready, they're at the finish line. The law on disabled people was uploaded for public discussion on the social ministry website until 26 September. Therefore, on Monday, it was not adopted unanimously by the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People we, the MPs from GERB, are not to blame. Both the national representative organisations of people with disabilities and the protesting mothers of children with disabilities were not understood, but the Law is ready. We MPs from GERB's parliamentary group are ready, we are willing, we have a commitment to work on this new Project of the Law on People with Disabilities. As soon as it is submitted to the National Assembly, we MPs from GERB will initiate an extraordinary committee so that the bill can be seen in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy as soon as possible. It is not true that we have not discussed the problems that protesting mothers and the problems related to the drafting of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Social Services. Many times in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, this issue has been posed, especially when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is present. At the last meeting, on 12 September 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1]. The question was again raised by the President of the Commission, Dr. Ademov. All Commissioners have reached the unanimous decision that, as soon as the Law on Disabled Persons enters the National Assembly, we will immediately see it in a package with the Personal Aid Act. The Social Services Act is also on the final line. The Minister for Labour and Social Policy during public discussions during parliamentary control has repeatedly stated that the deadline for drawing up this law is October 15th. You all know that this deadline hasn't been changed. We can't rush under pressure, with ultimatums, banging on the table to draw up two perfectly new laws. This is a very complex matter that affects over 750,000 people. Under ultimatums and under pressure, there is no way not to make mistakes, there is no way to get as close as possible to the positions of the protesting mothers of disabled children, national representative organisations of disabled people, trade unions and employers' organizations, which are against certain texts in the Law on Disabilities. As I said, and again I say, the MPs from GERB are ready to work in priority on the submitted bills. We have the assurance that the Law on Disabled Persons will be introduced soon. So early this morning, with Dr. Daritkova and Annie Alexandrova, we went to the protesting mothers to invite them to the National Assembly and to assist them as quickly as possible to revise the texts with which they and the national representative organizations disagree to bring the new law, to pass through the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. All of you, as MPs, know that there is a Law on regulatory acts and must pass the appropriate procedures, namely public consultation for one month, then each ministry to give an opinion on the relevant bill, to pass through the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People and then to pass through the Council of Ministers. There's no way to skip a procedure. So here, you have no ground to accuse us of being guilty of delaying the Law, it doesn't answer the truth. Four months the working group, with over 100 experts, representatives of NGOs, the government, all ministries, has worked hard. There were many hours of meetings, public consultations, some of which were also media coverage. I don't accept the accusation that nothing has been done. On the contrary, the new Draft Law on Disabled Persons is ready and the Social Services Act will be ready on 15 October. We have that assurance. Tomorrow at 2:00. This was a proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB, we will hold a meeting in the National Assembly. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health and MPs from all the parliamentary groups who want to attend, as well as representatives of the protesting mothers will be invited. The aim of the meeting is to bring our positions together as quickly as possible, because in this complex dialogue, which is filled with many emotions regarding the Law on Persons with Disabilities, reasonable compromises must be made on each side. As the state compromised on some texts that employers and trade unions disagreed with, so much the necessary compromise must be made on the other side. There are not endless possibilities of the state. I also disagree with what has been said that we abdicate from the problem of the mothers of disabled children and in general from the policies for disabled people. Each year, money for policies for people with disabilities increased by 86 million more this year, by 126 million last year. Yesterday Prime Minister Boyko Borisov clearly and categorically said that in Budget 2019 the Social Ministry will have 150 million more and they will be provided. It's proof that we don't run away from commitments. This money was promised in June and will be in the budget of the Social Ministry. Dear colleagues on the left, stop lying, manipulate public opinion, the opinion of protesting mothers, and get to work and work in the committees! Be present at the meetings of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, because the real dialogue is in the committees, the real dialogue is here in the Chamber, and not to use the stands only when there are cameras! [[Applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I'm calling off work for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u124	Colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u125	Under art. 28 supposed by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments shall be made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. Al. 1 becomes the content of art. 28, as amended: Art. 28. Upon withdrawal or termination of a sports registration, the sports organisation shall be deleted from the register under art. 6, para. 1. In the event of suspension of a sports registration, the State financing of the sports organisation shall be suspended and its rights to carry out administrative activities within the territory of the country until the infringement has been resolved, but no later than the next general or accounting meeting, which should be convened within 6 months of the order of the Minister to suspend. 3. Allinea 2 is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 25: Art. 25. (1) Upon withdrawal or termination of the sports licence, the sports federation shall be deleted from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The sports federation shall reimburse the Ministry of Youth and Sports the funds provided to it for the purchase of fixed tangible assets for the last two years before the revocation or termination of the licence. (3) A sports club which is a member of a federation whose licence has been revoked or terminated may carry out the activities under art. 17, para. 1 for a period of up to 6 months from the date of the order. After the expiry of the period referred to in the sentence, first the sports club shall be deleted from the register referred to in art. 9, para. 1, t. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u126	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Statements? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take into account the Commission's proposals and the text of para. 2. I would rather like to address the President of the Commission Slavcho Atanasov because he is making this proposal, namely to recover the funds for the last two years, which have been provided for the purchase of fixed tangible assets. I think that this provision simply cannot be implemented because the financial resources that are invested in equipment, then organizations can hardly recover them. This is going to be a nonsense. There will be endless disputes, including perhaps judicial disputes, which will rather not have a final outcome. My suggestion is to withdraw this para as well. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u129	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Ms. Lecheva, the logic of this text, protected in both a working group and in all the comments that were on it, is not a pure collection of any funds from the revoked federal licenses, from the federations with revoked licenses, but a recovery of funds that have been given for the fixed tangible assets of this federation. The next federation, which will have to develop this sport, has been laid down in logic, and my personal logic is such as to administer this sport, cannot again acquire the same fixed tangible assets. Not to mention that when it comes to a sports federation, in most cases it is related to the exercise of its activities of fixed tangible assets. And then the only way to restore the activities of a sports federation in a given sport is to have where to restore these assets, to re-create them. The practice in our country has proved all these years that long-term tangible assets for the realization of a sport are usually associated with the headquarters of the Federation. And the concentration in the creation of such fixed tangible assets is where the current headquarters of the Federation is. And the new headquarters will most likely remain empty, the clubs will have nothing to do with their activities. That's the logic of the text, not to raise some money criminally.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. We're gonna wait for editing to be agreed. There is an editorial amendment regarding Mrs. Lecheva's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u131	In relation to Ms. Lecheva's proposal, after specifying with our Minister of Youth and Sports, the editorial amendment is the following "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Noise and lines.]] ..or the capital goods themselves..................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u132	Can we hear the lyrics one more time, dear Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u133	The Ministry of Youth and Sports provides, right? It restores to the Ministry of Youth and Sports the funds provided to it to buy fixed tangible assets or the capital goods themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u134	Okay, thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, the order for voting is the unsupported by the Commission proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov in its overall form. Please vote on the whole unsupported proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 8 against 51, abstention 36. It's not accepted. I now vote on the editorial amendments made by the stand by the MP Vesela Lecheva. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote! Colleagues, it may not have become very clear, but Mrs. Vesela Lecheva made editorial amendments, which were edited and presented by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov. This I put to the vote the editorial amendments were presented by the MP Slavcho Atanasov after consulting Minister Kralev. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Sustained. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 28, which becomes art. 25, with the adoption of editorial amendments. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u135	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The procedure for issuing, refusing, withdrawing and terminating a sports licence shall be laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. (2) The order of the Minister of Youth and Sports or the official appointed by him under art. 22, para. Art. 1, art. 23, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 24 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) The appeal shall not stop the execution of the order under para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u136	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 29, which becomes art. 26. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u137	"Department V.................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section V and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u138	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the name of Section V. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u139	Under art. 30 has a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments shall be made: 1. the title is amended as follows: the Rules of the sports organizations under art. 12, para. 2 and the national sports-tourist organisation arising from the sport registration. 2. the introductory sentence is amended as follows: "With the inclusion in the sports register, sports and tourism organizations." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 30 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u140	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 38, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. 30 by importer. They voted 103 MPs: 98 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u141	Under art. 31 has a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The licensed sports federation: 1. perform administrative functions relating to the regulation of the relevant type or similar types of sport, respectively of the sport activity on a uniting principle; 2. alone or jointly with the Bulgarian Olympic Committee represents the country of international competitions; 3. develop and implement methodical and administrative rules under the relevant sport or similar types of sport; 4. organize and hold championships and competitions in one or similar types of sport, or more than one sport practiced on a unifying principle, and determine the ranking in them; 5. approve the organization of sports competitions and events from the state sports calendar; 6. determine the composition and organise the preparation of the national teams in the relevant sport; 7. implement the disciplinary penalties imposed on athletes, coaches and officials who have committed violations of anti-opping rules; 8. manage and dispose, including repair and renewal, sports facilities under the current legislation; 9. provide sports services; 10. awarded with awards and awards athletes, coaches and sports actors; 11. draw up files on the activities of sports clubs. members; 12. draw up, present and take account of the implementation of the programmes under this law; 13. supervises this law; informs the Minister of Youth and Sports in case of detected violations. (2) The licensed sports federation may also: 1. creates conditions for the adapted physical activity and sport practice by people with disabilities in order to improve the quality of life; 2. grant, terminate and revoke the racing rights of the athletes; 3. keep a transfer register; 4. keep a register of intermediaries under art. 81, para. 1; 5. perform sport justice through a system of committees and sports arbitration through an arbitration body; 6. prepare judges and specialized technical and administrative staff in the relevant sport by organizing courses and training seminars; 7. establish support bodies supposed coaching council, sports-jury college, disciplinary commission, financial committee, scientific and scientific-applied activity unit on the relevant type of sport; 8. hold the exclusive rights of advertising, for broadcasting of all sports competitions organised by it, providing on a contractual basis a percentage of the proceeds of the sports participants in the competition. (3) The Sports Federation in carrying out the activities under para. 1 and 2: 1. promote sports ideals and fair play rules by creating public and educational measures; 2. promote and promote active and healthy lifestyles; 3. apply the principle of mutual respect between athletes, between viewers and between athletes and viewers; 4. develop children's-youth sport; 5. prevent anti-social events during sporting events; 6. prevents disorders of anti-opping rules. (4) Within three months of receipt of the sports license, the sports federation shall establish and maintain a website for the promotion of its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u142	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 27. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u143	Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 27 in the version of the Commission. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 t. 13 is amended as follows:,13. Realizes a sports product; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 32 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 27 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u144	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. Vote 92 MPs: 40 against 15, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. 32 by importer. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u145	Section VI - Professional The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section VI and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u146	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the name of Section VI. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u147	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 33 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 29. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 34 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 29. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 35 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new article. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u148	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission art. 33 to be rejected. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. Article 34 35. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u149	"Department VII.................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section VII and proposes to reject it. Under art. 36 there is a proposal of the MP Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The Sports Federation shall carry out its activities on the basis of its adoption: 1. a single system of indicators for organisation, management and control of the multi-annual training and competitive process in the relevant sport; 2. rules for holding competitions from the state sports calendar and other competitions in the respective type of sport; 3. rules on the conditions and arrangements for filing, unless it is a multi-spore federation; 4. rules on the status of amateur athletes and professional athletes and on the acquisition, termination and withdrawal of racing rights, unless it is a multi-sporting federation; 5. rules on terms and conditions for transfer and transfer of racing rights to amateur athletes and professional athletes; 6. rules on the activity of persons engaged in intermediate activities for acquisition, modification, transfer or termination of racing rights, or on the conclusion, amendment or termination of a contract with a coach, unless it is a multi-spute federation; 7. rules for compulsory insurance of amateur athletes and professional athletes according to the type of sport; 8. rules for the implementation of sports justice and sports arbitration, unless it is a multi-spoken federation; 9. rules on the activities of the auxiliary bodies under art. 27, para. 2, p. 7); 10. programmes for the development of the relevant types of sport, which shall be drawn up for a period of 4 years and shall comply with the national programme under art. 7, p. 2. 11. rules for awards and awards of athletes, coaches and sports actors; 12. rules for the management and conduct of state championships of professional leagues; 13. annual state sports calendar for holding competitions; 14. other acts regulating its activities. (2) The acts under para. 1 shall be announced on the website of the relevant sports federation and presented to the Ministry of Youth and Sport within 14 days of their adoption. The rules are presented together is the instruments for their adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u150	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the name of the Section. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's version of art. 36, which becomes art. 28. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u151	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The Sports Federation may provide the management of championships from the state sports calendar of the professional league under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 28, para. 1, t. 12. (2) Professional League is: 1. the supporting body of the sports federation, or 2. a non-profit association or a capital trading company. (3) Members, partners or shareholders in legal entities under para. 2, p. 2 are sports clubs that are members of the relevant sports federation and participate in the respective championship. (4) When creating a professional league, the sports federation may set requirements in the state championships to participate only professional athletes. (5) Only one professional league can be created for each sport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u152	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 29 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u153	"Department VIII............................................................................................... The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section VIII and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u154	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal to withdraw the name of Section VIII. They voted 91 MPs: 91, none, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u155	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 30: Art. 30. (1) By 31 March of the year in which the 4-year duration of the programme under art. 28, para. 1, t. 10, The Sports Federation shall present to the Minister of Youth and Sports a report on its implementation and a new 4-year programme adopted by the General Assembly. (2) The sports federation shall present annually by 31 March to the Minister of Youth and Sports: 1. report on the implementation of the program under para. 1 for the previous year; 2. financial statement for the previous year and adopted budget of the sports federation for the current year; 3. update of the program under para. One if there is one. (3) The documents under para. 1 and 2 shall be presented in paper and electronic form on a template approved by the Minister for Youth and Sports. (4) The documents under para. 1 and 2 shall be published on the website of the relevant sports federation. (5) At the written request of the Minister of Youth and Sports, the sports federation shall provide information on its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u156	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u157	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to propose an editorial amendment in art. 30, para. 1 in the text there is also a report on its implementation and a new 4-year programme. It's gotta fall off.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u158	A proposal for an editorial amendment has been made for dropping out of the article. 30, para. 1. We are voting on the text proposed by the Commission with the editorial amendment made. Do you agree, the representatives of the Commission? Abort the vote. Please clarify one thing, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Apostolov, please read again very carefully and slowly art. 30, para. 1 for the shorthand record.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u159	Until 31 March of the year in which the 4-year duration of the programme under art. 28, para. 1, t. 10, the Sports Federation shall present to the Minister of Youth and Sports a report on its implementation and a new 4-year programme adopted by the General Assembly;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u160	This is art. 30, para. One, ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the programme is related to the programme. I think the text is quite correct. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u161	I'm changing my editorial change. I figured out where the error was, but let's add after the error.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u162	Its implementation and a new 4 year program from the General Assembly. Are you withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u163	Yes, I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u164	Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u165	Madam President, honourable Members! The mistake is in the same letter. My proposal for an editorial change is as follows: shows the Minister a report on its implementation, together with a new programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u166	Along with a new 4-year program. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u167	And I'm going to make an editorial proposal. In this case, art. 30, para. 1... until 31 March of the year in which the 4-year duration of the programme under art. 28, para. 1, t. 10, the Sports Federation shall provide the Minister of Youth and Sports with a report on its implementation, as well as a new 4 year programme adopted by the General Assembly. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. The applause expresses the House's attitude towards the latest editorial amendment, but I propose that we vote in the order of the proposals as they were made. Please withdraw the proposal from the stand, Mr. Manev. Mr. Ivanov has already withdrawn his editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u169	My fellow Members, I withdraw my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u170	Thank you, Mr. Manev. We are voting on the Commission's text with the editing of Mr. Chenchev as well as a new 4-year programme. Vote 95 MPs: 95, none, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u171	"Chapter 4" - Special Organizations. Proposal from the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Four: Other organisations in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u172	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a new name for Chapter Four. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u173	Under art. 38 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. the title is amended as follows: 2. a new comma shall be placed after the words the Paralympic Organization. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 38 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u174	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 21, against 45, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the text. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u175	"Section I" "Bulgarian Olympic Committee and National Paralympic Organization." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I, in which the word "paralympics' is replaced by "paralympics'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u176	The proposal is to replace the Paralympics with the Paralympics. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal for the name of Section I and the word "paralympics' to be replaced by "paralympics'. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u177	Under art. 39 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. a new para is created. 5. The Bulgarian Olympic Committee shall adopt a four-year Olympic training programme and a report on its implementation within the time limits laid down in art. 37. para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. para. 5 becomes para. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The Bulgarian Olympic Committee is a non-profit association for the development of the Olympic movement, the spread of Olympic ideas in the country and the participation of athletes in the Olympic Games. (2) The Bulgarian Olympic Committee shall carry out its activities in accordance with the legislation in force and the Olympic Charter of the International Olympic Committee. (3) The Olympic symbols and symbols may be used only with the permission of the Bulgarian Olympic Committee. (4) The Bulgarian Olympic Committee shall represent the state and the Bulgarian sports organisations before the International Olympic Committee on Issues related to the organisation and conduct of the Olympic Games. (5) The Bulgarian Olympic Committee shall establish independent bodies in the field of sport: 1. a disciplinary committee which performs the functions of the first instance in the proceedings for the identification of infringements of anti-dumping rules, the determination and imposition of disciplinary penalties for them; 2. Bulgarian sports arbitration, which performs the functions of the Board of Appeal in the proceedings for establishing violations of anti-dumping rules, determining and imposing disciplinary penalties for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u178	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 20, against 49, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text in the version of the Commission for art. 39, which becomes art. 31. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u179	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The National Paralympic Organization shall be a non-profit association for carrying out a socially useful activity which shall meet the requirements for membership of the Statute of the International Paralympic Committee. (2) The National Paralympic Organization develops the paralympic movement, distributes the paralympic ideas in the country and organizes, and coordinates the participation of athletes in the Paralympic Games. (3) The National Paralympic Organization shall carry out its activities in accordance with the legislation in force and the Statute of the International Paralympic Committee. (4) Paralympic symbols and signs may be used only with the permission of the national paralympic organisation. (5) The National Paralympic Organization shall represent the state and the Bulgarian sports organizations before the International Paralympic Committee on Issues related to the organization and conduct of the Paralympic Games and all events organised by or with the participation of the International Paralympic Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u180	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of a new article. 32 in a proposal from the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u181	"Department II" "United Sports Club". The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Section II, but proposes that Section II be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u182	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject Section II. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u183	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 40 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 44. Under art. 41 has a proposal from the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 41 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u184	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposals to reject art. Art. 40, Art. 41. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u185	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 42 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u186	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the motion to reject art. 42. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u187	Section III "National Organization for Sports and Tourist Activities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III, which shall become Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u188	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section III, which becomes Section II. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u189	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The National Organisation for Sports Tourism is a non-profit association for carrying out a socially useful activity which develops and promotes sports-tourist activity and interacts with the competent state authorities, municipalities and international sports-tourist organizations in the formation, implementation and realization of state policy in this area. (2) Members of the national organisation for sport tourism activities shall be tourist companies under art. 38, para. 1. (3) The procedure for the entry and deletion of the national organisation for sport and tourist activities and its members in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 is defined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) In the register referred to in art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 shall be entered only one national organisation for sport and tourist activity. "Integrate in the register. " The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 34: Art. 34. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him by an order shall enter the national organisation for sports and tourist activities in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 if it meets the requirements of art. 20, p. 1.. 3 and has: 1. adopted 4-year programme for the development of sport tourism activity, which is in accordance with the national programme under art. 7, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. adopted annual calendar of sports-tourism events. (2) For entry into the register, the national organisation for sport and tourist activities shall submit an application on a template approved by the Minister for Youth and Sports, indicating the applicant's details to which they apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 21, para. 1, t. 1 and 2; 2. an application for membership or a document certifying membership of an international organisation, if any, and the rules for carrying out its activities; 3. program for the development of sports and tourist activities under para. 1, t. 1 and the instrument of acceptance; Four-year-old calendar by para. 1, t. 2 and the instrument of acceptance; 5. a list of the members with their unique identification code and their adoption acts. (3) The documents under para. 2 shall be presented in an original or certified copy by the applicant. The documents under para. 2, p. 4 and 5 shall also be submitted by electronic means. (4) The application and the documents annexed thereto shall be submitted in Bulgarian. Documents in a foreign language are accompanied by accurate translation into Bulgarian. (5) The application and the documents attached to it may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Governance. (6) The National Organization for Sports and Tourist Activities and its members shall acquire the right to carry out the activities under art. Art. 36, Art. 38 after entry into the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u190	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the just read texts of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. Art. 33, Art. 44, which becomes Art. 34. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u191	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 35: Art. 35. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him by a reasoned order shall remove the national organisation for sports and tourist activities from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 when: 1. has ceased to meet a requirement under Article 1. 34, para. 1; 2. has not submitted an up-to-date programme under art. 34, para. 1, t. 1 within the term referred to in art. 37, para. 1; 3. does not perform the activity under art. 36; 4. has submitted false data or false documents which have served as grounds for entry in the register; 5. Its members do not meet the requirements of the Law. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Minister of Youth and Sport or the official authorised by him shall delete the national organisation for sport and tourist activities and its members from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 if the organisation fails to fulfil its obligations within two months of their failure to comply. (3) The order under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The National Organisation for Sports Tourism in accordance with its statutes: 1. represent and defend the interests of its members to the relevant state and local authorities and international sports organisations; 2. participate in the development of strategies and programmes for the development of sport and tourist activities at national level and contribute to their implementation; 3. build, maintain and use objects for sports tourism activity; 4. assist in advertising tourist products; 5. assist in the construction and operation of tourist information centres or offices; 6. assists in improving the professional qualification of sports-tourist staff. (2) The National Organization for Sports Tourism shall participate in the National Council for Tourism under art. 7, para. 1 of the Tourism Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u192	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text in the version of the Commission for art. 45, which becomes art. 35 and the new Art. 36. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u193	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 37: Art. 37. (1) By 31 March of the year in which the 4-year duration of the programme under art. 34, para. 1, t. 1, the national organisation for sport and tourism activities shall provide the Minister for Youth and Sports with a report on its implementation and a new 4 year programme and the adoption acts. (2) The National Organisation for Sports Tourism shall notify the Ministry of Youth and Sports of acceptance of the exclusion of the travel company as a member within three days from the date of the decision concerned. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 38: Art. 38. (1) A tourist company is a non-profit association for carrying out socially useful activities for the development and distribution of sports and tourist activities. (2) The tourist company shall carry out and administer sports-touristic activities, such as: 1. organize sports-tourist events; 2. manage sports-tourist activities sites.. tourist huts, tourist training centers and tourist bedrooms and provide services to the citizens; 3. build, maintain and renew tourist shelters, tourist routes and trails as well as their marking; 4. promote eco-tourism and promote environmental protection. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new Section III with new art. 39 ". 43 and a new Section IV with new art. 44 " 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u194	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 46, which becomes art. 37, the new Art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u195	The Commission proposes to create a new Section III with new art. 39 ". 43 and a new Section IV with new art. 44.. 46: "Department III" National Organization for University Sports Art. 39. (1) The National Organization for University Sports is a non-profit organization for carrying out public utility activities for the development and dissemination of sport in higher schools. (2) Members of the National Organization for University Sports shall be sports clubs under art. 43, para. 1. (3) The procedure for the entry and deletion of the national organisation for university sport and its members in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 is defined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) In the register referred to in art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 includes only one national organisation for university sport. Art. 40. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him by an order shall enter the national organisation for university sport in the register of art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 if it meets the requirements of art. 20, p. 1.. 3 and has: 1. adopted 4-year program for the development of sport in higher schools in accordance with the national programme under art. 7, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. adopted annual sports calendar of student competitions and rules for their conduct. (2) For entry into the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 Associations under para. 1 submit an application on a template approved by the Minister for Youth and Sports, indicating the applicant's details to which they apply: 1. the documents referred to in Article 1. 21, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 15; 2. Program for the development of sports in the higher schools under para. 1, t. 1 and the instrument of acceptance; 3. annual sports calendar under para. 1, t. 2 and the instrument of acceptance; 4. a list of the members and acts of acceptance. (3) The documents under para. 2 shall be presented in an original or certified copy by the applicant. The documents under para. 2, p. 3 and 4 shall also be submitted by electronic means. (4) The application and its annexes shall be submitted in Bulgarian. Documents in a foreign language are accompanied by accurate translation into Bulgarian. (5) The application and the documents attached to it may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Governance. (6) The National Organization for University Sports shall acquire the right to carry out the activities under art. 42 after entry into the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2. Art. 41. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him with a reasoned order shall remove the national organisation for university sport from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 when: 1. has ceased to meet a requirement under Article 1. 40, para. 1; 2. has not submitted an up-to-date programme under art. 40, para. 1, t. 1 within the term referred to in art. 42, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. does not perform the activity under art. 42; 4. has submitted false data or false documents which have served as grounds for entry in the register; 5. Its members do not meet the requirements of the law. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Minister of Youth and Sport or the official authorised by him shall remove the national organisation for university sport from the register of art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 if the organisation fails to fulfil its obligations within two months of their failure to comply. (3) The order under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. Art. 42. (1) The National Organization for University Sports: 1. conduct initiatives for development and promotion of sport in higher schools; 2. promote the activity of the organization and create an interest in sport among students; 3. hold according to the state sports calendar general championships, games and national student championships; 4. represent and validate the Bulgarian student sport to international sports organizations in this area; 5. assists in improving the system of training in physical education and sports in higher schools. (2) By 31 March of the year in which the 4-year duration of the programme under art. 40, para. 1, t. 1 the national organization for university sport presents to the Minister of Youth and Sports a report on its implementation and a new 4-year programme and the adoption acts. (3) The National Organization for University Sports shall inform the Ministry of Youth and Sports of admission, respectively, of the exclusion of a sports club as a member within three days from the date of the relevant decision. Art. 43. (1) Sports Club of Higher School is: 1. Sports club in one or similar types of sport and/or multisport club established by a decision of the Academic Council under art. 30, para. 1, t. 15a of the Law on Higher Education under conditions and by order laid down in the rules of the relevant higher school; the name of the club shall indicate the name and type of the higher school under the act of opening or converting it; 2. Sports Club by Art. 12, para. 2, p. 1; with the permission of the Rector in the name of the student sports club, the name and type of the university may be indicated in accordance with the act of opening or converting it. (2) In the sports club under para. 1, t. 2 may belong to students, lecturers and employees of the relevant university. (3) The Sports Club under para. 1, t. 1 participates only in sports competitions organised by the National Organization for University Sports. (4) The Sports Club under para. 1, t. 2 may also be a member of a sports federation on a relevant type of sport. (5) The sports clubs under para. 1, t. 1 shall be financed by the university. Sports clubs by para. 1, t. 2 may be financed and assisted by the Ministry of Education and Science, subject to state aid rules. Section IV United Sports Club Art. 44. (1) The United Sports Club is an association of non-profit sports clubs to carry out socially useful activities for the use and management of sports sites. (2) Within two months of the establishment the Allied Sports Club shall apply for its entry in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2. The application may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Governance. (3) The entry and deletion of the united sports club from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 shall be carried out by order of the Minister of Youth and Sport or an official authorised by him. The procedure for registration and deletion from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (4) The United Sports Club may operate only after its entry in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2. (5) The United Sports Club shall not be a member of a sports federation. Art. 45. (1) Right of association under art. 44, para. 1 have only sports clubs which are members of a sports federation and are entered in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1. (2) A United Sports Club shall be established by not less than three sports clubs based on the territory of an administrative area. (3) The name shall include the words "United Sports Club." (4) The United Sports Club may not carry out the activities under art. 17, para. 1, t. 1 s 9 et c. 11. Art. 46. (1) Sports sites.. state and municipal property, which are granted under this law to a united sports club, shall benefit from its members. (2) The rights of members of a united sports club for the use of the sporting sites of state and municipal property shall be terminated from the day of deletion of the member concerned from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2. (3) In the event of deletion of a united sports club from the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 contracts providing sports objects under para. 1 shall be terminated with one month's written notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u196	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any statements on these texts? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the texts of art. 39 The new Section IV with new art. 44 " 46. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u197	Chapter 5 "State policy in the field of sports for all." Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov: In the title of Chapter 5a (anywhere in the text of the Law), the words "sports for all" are replaced by "sports in leisure time." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Six:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u198	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting first the proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 15 against 37, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text proposed by the Commission for the name of Chapter Six. [[Heckling]] Cancel the vote. Please specify whether it is Chapter Five or Chapter Six, as is in the text of the proposal for Chapter Five. There's a gap between the head number and the proposal in the text. Please, Mr. Apostolov, read again the correct text as it should be to correct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u199	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Five:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u200	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the newly read text proposal by Mr. Apostolov. Vote 88 MPs: 77 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u201	Section I "General provisions'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Section I:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u202	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to edit the name of Section I. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u203	Under art. 47 "Sport development for everyone" has a proposal from the representatives of the National Assembly Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: Art. 47 is amended as follows: ..................................................... 47. (1) The National Public Sports Organization, in accordance with its Statute: 1. represent and protects the interests of its members to the relevant authorities of the central and local administration and international sports organisations in which it is a member; 2. participate in the development and reporting of strategies and programmes under art. 9, p. 1 et c. 2 for the development of physical education and sport on a national scale and contribute to their implementation; 3. build, maintain and use its own or provided by the state and local authorities sports facilities and facilities; 4. direct the activities of programmes, credentials and resources granted to it by the State in separate subsystems of the national physical education and sport system; 5. assist in improving the professional qualification of sports and pedagogical and management staff in the field of physical education and sport; 6. assist in the practical implementation of current sports policies and priorities of an international nature, such as combating the application of prohibited pharmacological preparations and methods in the training and competition process, combating violence and intolerance in sport, gender equality, the dual career of athletes, the security of sports objects and facilities, volunteering in sport, integration through sport and in sport, combating all forms of discrimination and others; 7. assist in the social dialogue between sports employers and pedagogical staff; 8. implement social projects; 9. assist the activities of public staff in the sport, fans and sports traditions of its members; 10. examine public opinion and trends in the development of physical education and sport and propose appropriate changes in sports legislation and regulations; 11. together with its members conduct state and international sporting events; 12. possess the advertising and publishing rights of sports events under the patronage of the National Public Sports Organization; 13. offers sports services and conducts legitimate economic activities; 14. monitor compliance with the legality, legal basis and transparent management of its members; 15. promote the system activities with motor activity, sport in leisure and sport for excellence; 16. together with its members, with the National Sports Academy of Vasil Levski and other state institutions and departments, make and offer for validation systems and national standards for evaluation of physical development and capacity of the population, standards for qualitative assessment of sports performance in measurable sports and disciplines and sports games and other methodological documents concerning the effectiveness of the national system of physical education and sport; 17. publishes its own scientific and methodological journal; 18. preserve and develop national sports traditions and sports history of the state; 19. create and maintain its own internet-based information system; 20. awards with the title of "Deserved Worker of Physical Culture and Sports" people with proven contribution to the development of the national system of physical education and sports and public actors; 21. implement other activities awarded by an act of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and international sports organisations in which he is a member. (2) The National Public Sports Organization shall be a member of the Bulgarian Olympic Committee, the Expert Council of the Minister of Youth and Sports under art. 11, para. 1 and the National Council under Article 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 47 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u204	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Veselya "Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 16 against 49, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 47 by importer. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u205	Art. 48 "Support from the State and the Municipalities." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. (1) State and local authorities shall develop and implement policies to promote sport for all through a cross-sectoral approach covering areas such as health, education, the environment, transport and others. (2) The support of sport for all shall be carried out by: 1. support the non-profit activities of sports organisations; 2. support for business activities subject to State aid rules; 3. Creating conditions for adapted physical activity and practicing sports by disabled people to improve their quality of life. (3) The support of the activities of the National Organization for Sports and Tourist Activities, including through the construction of infrastructure of sports and tourist activities, shall be carried out according to art. 21 of the Public Finance Act. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 48: Art. 48. (1) Employers and appointing bodies shall establish and provide conditions for sports activities and for active recreation of their workers and employees. (2) In collective agreements, employers also provide financial support for the practice of sport and active recreation of employees. ..................................................................................................... The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 49 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-03.u206	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting in the version of art. 48, which becomes art. 47, the creation of a new art. 48, as well as the motion to reject Art. 48. 49. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are putting an end to this bill for the day. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
