ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month and that is why the program is formed under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups this month, they are the first of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. They have imported: First vote on the Old People's Bill. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. Following is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs": First vote on the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Code. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 30 November 2017. Proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament The Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Group of GERB were not received. I will also read the draft work programme of the National Assembly on 2 May 2018: 3. Draft decision for the release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Marinov Hristov. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. 4. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 26 April 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and 7 April 2018. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 3 May 2018 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the State Gazette. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2018. 9. Draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2018. 10. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2017. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media on 30 March 2018. 11. Parliamentary control. Colleagues, I ask that we vote on the proposal made for the draft work programme of the National Assembly for 2 May 2018. Vote 179 MPs: 168 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 25 April 2018 to 30 April 2018: Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers are Kalin Popovski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importer "Emil Hristov." The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Importer "Tsvetan Tsvetanov." Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Importers are Ivan Mikovski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall activity of compiling classified information protection in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The report is confidential. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. Draft decision for the early release of Emil Marinov Hristov from the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2017. Importer is the Bulgarian National Bank. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. There are a few more messages to follow. The National Assembly has received: - Report of the Chairman of the Board of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 March 2018. The report shall be reviewed and discussed on 24 April 2018 and Protocol No 19 of the Fund's Governing Council meeting, held on 27 April 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - On 30 April 2018, an adjusted Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about indexes of the prices of a producer on the domestic and international market in the industry March 2018, business conjuncture April 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving on to the legislative programme of the first proposal for inclusion on the agenda under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR AGE PEOPLE. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Old People's Bill, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 4 October 2017 discussed and discussed the Old People's Bill submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, experts from the Agency for Social Assistance, representatives of pensioners' organizations and others. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. He began the presentation with the thesis that the support of people throughout their life cycle is one of the main objectives of social policy. However, younger generations are not always able to give the deserved gratitude and understanding of previous generations who have contributed to the country's economic growth. The principles of solidarity, equality and accessibility would not have this significance in Bulgaria's social policy if they were not accompanied by real measures and policies to support all from the youngest to the oldest. According to the importers of the bill, such measures are being implemented at present - material support through social and targeted support for heating, various programmes, including on the labour market and others. With regard to long-term care, a number of measures have also been implemented that have led to an increase in the quality of social services for elderly people. However, elderly people who use social services in institutions for old people and pensioners who receive targeted heating aid and others continue to be among the most vulnerable groups not only among the elderly but also throughout our society. All this motivates importers to submit this draft Old People's Law to offer a new vision on the care and social inclusion of elderly people. This law is not only necessary to overcome social differences of inequalities and situations of social exclusion, it is a legislative act that will help people to live their old age dignifiedly, whether assisted by personal and social assistants, by social workers and medical staff, or still dealing with their daily lives on their own. This clearly shows that it is also a Law for these people of 60 years and more who, although they are dealing with themselves, need an active social life, an opportunity to continue to develop as individuals, even though they are no longer actively involved in working life. The bill reflects the understanding of importers that elderly people do not only need material support but also social support; elderly people are one of the most important groups in society and they need to understand this, and society needs to testify to it; people in retirement age have potential that they need to be encouraged to use; the combination of long-term care and social inclusion instruments will contribute to a fuller account of the needs of pensioners, to a more flexible address of these needs and, accordingly, to improve results. The bill aims to arrange for the conduct of public policy in support of the elderly and to guarantee them conditions for full and active life and participation in all areas of public life, to ensure the interests of the elderly and to ensure an appropriate economic, social and institutional environment for prevention and prevention of social exclusion and to extend and improve the forms and conditions for the access of the elderly to public resources. The essence of the bill is in the support of the elderly, which is realized through: - development and implementation of programmes and measures for a full and active life of elderly people in the field of social inclusion, social and cultural cohesion, health, education and training; - care for elderly people in foster care; - encouraging measures for elderly people who have a temporary character and aim at speedy achievement of equal opportunities for elderly people in specific areas of public life and which are applied to remove obstacles to balanced representation of elderly people in all areas of public life. The bill also regulates the financial provision of the support policy for elderly people by: - the creation of the Old People's Support Fund to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Principles and Conditions for its functioning; - Regulation of fundraising under the Old People's Support Fund - established standards for the control and monitoring of the implementation of the policies for the elderly. The importers of the Bill have applied a preliminary assessment of the impact of the Old People's Law. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received the opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance. All three opinions are negative. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy was presented by Deputy Minister Rositsa Dimitrova. She stated the following non-supportive arguments. Part of the provisions in the proposed Draft regulate public relations by analogy to existing legislation. The proposed foster care in the Bill is regulated as foster care under the Child Protection Act, monthly supplements are regulated as supplements under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Support for the elderly is identical to the Social Protection Fund of the Social Assistance Act. It is not clear what analysis these proposals are based on, what is the assessment of the need for such measures, as well as the necessary financial resources for their implementation. The applied preliminary impact assessment states that the adoption of the bill does not require any change in other regulations. This will result in duplication of rights and responsibilities under different regulations, as the proposed Old People's Bill does not run out of legal matter relating to the rights of the elderly. In addition, it will also lead to incorrect spending of public funds in the area of financial assistance and there is a risk that the effectiveness of the policy is reduced. Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova said that in the course of policies and measures for elderly people in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are being developed and are in a phase of finalization of the measures that are stated in the National Strategy for Long-term Care and those in the Strategy for Active Ageing. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill with the following more important arguments: - the provisions laid down and the reasons attached thereto do not justify the need to settle the public relations of older people with a special law; - the adoption of a special law for this population group would not contribute to addressing the main problems and needs of the elderly; - the definition of an elderly person is problematic. It is not clear why an elderly person is a designated natural person with the age of 60 years, given that those who are working in age are in the group of 20 years. In addition, this age is also not linked to the gradual increase in retirement age; - the arrangements in no small part have a declarative nature or governs relationships subject to other laws in force; - the legislative approach applied leads to duplication of measures and activities aimed at supporting elderly people financed by state budget or municipal budgets; - there is a problem with the creation and status of the Old People's Support Fund. - the legislative decisions proposed by the draft are not appropriate, in line with the economic situation of the state and the objective possibilities of the state budget and the budgets of municipalities, demographic problems in the country, the need to balance with the interests of other age groups. The opinion of the Agency for Social Assistance stresses that a new Social Services Act and its implementing regulations are already under way. This new law will settle much of the proposals presented in the Old People's Bill. The concept of the Law lays down the need to create all legal prerequisites for the development of cross-sectoral integrated services, definition, mode of operation, interaction between different systems, financing, including from different sources, control, standards and so on. In addition, the ASA considers that the opening of social services to the population principle does not meet the real needs of a municipality, respectively, area. The opening of social services should be carried out on the basis of an analysis of the needs of social services at municipal and regional level. The Agency for Social Assistance shall not support the adoption of a bill for elderly people due to the following principled arguments: - The bill for elderly people provides for a settlement of public relations, which are already governed by special laws regulating the state social policy for all Bulgarian citizens; - the right of older people in Bulgaria is ensured through all existing social laws. The conditions and procedures for the settlement of specific rights of a target group largely duplicate the rights of all Bulgarian citizens governed by existing regulations. The creation of a separate law for elderly people would lead to inequalities against the other Bulgarian citizens receiving social benefits, integration supplements or social services. The Commission received a Protocol from the Committee on Income and Vital Levels of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation on 4 September 2017 and Protocol No 14 of 4 September 2017 of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The attached opinions show that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria do not support the proposed project. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, CNSB, KT "Support" is supported by the bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Albena Naydenova, Rumen Genov, Vesela Lecheva, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Kalin Popovski, Svetlana Angelova, Julian Papasimov and Hasan Ademov. Most of them expressed their position on the current policy and measures taken by the state to support elderly people. According to them, the proposed bill will duplicate rights and responsibilities that are already described in existing social policy laws. The bill will make one part of the elderly more privileged than another, which will be discriminated against in terms of rights and benefits. And there are currently no obstacles to implementing and implementing support measures and policies for elderly people at pre-retirement and retirement age. Opinions were made that care for the elderly was insufficient. There are policies for them, but their life and social status are not improving. This bill should be accepted as a guarantee, not an obstacle to the policies being carried out. It can provide support for vulnerable groups and groups generating poverty, as well as for groups threatened with social exclusion and exclusion. Such laws are available in a sufficient number of European countries and their experience in policies on elderly people can be taken. After the discussion was concluded and the vote with results: 8 votes for the vote, 2 votes against the vote and 9 votes abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the bill for elderly people, No 754-01-47, tabled by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u3	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Who will present us with the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u4	♪ I can't believe under a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 11 October 2017 examined and discussed the Old People's Bill. The meeting was attended by Petar Nachev, Director of the Strategic Planning and Demographic Policy Department at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Dragomir Stoinev. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to arrange for the implementation of state policy in support of elderly people and to guarantee them conditions for full and active life and participation in all spheres of public life, to ensure the interests of elderly people and to ensure an appropriate economic, social and institutional environment for prevention and non-social exclusion, to extend and improve the forms and conditions of access of elderly people to public resources. It is also the aim of the state to guarantee the freedom of elderly people to associate. The work itself on the Bill began in 2012 at the request of the pension organizations and the presented bill is agreed with them. The bill lays down the bodies and mechanisms for conducting the policies for elderly people. Support for the elderly is implemented by developing and implementing programmes and measures; care for the elderly in a foster family and encouraging measures for the elderly of a temporary nature that aim to achieve equal opportunities for the elderly. The Bill also regulates the financial provision of the support policy for elderly people through the creation of the "Support for elderly people" Fund, the recruitment, spending and control of funds under the Fund is regulated. It is proposed to establish new provisions in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals and in the Law on Corporate Income Tax, offering the amounts donated to the Fund to be deducted from the annual tax bases for the taxation of persons. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. In their opinions, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy do not support the bill by believing that the objectives of the bill can be achieved within the framework of the current legislation. The establishment of the Old People's Support Fund is also considered to be contrary to the Public Finance Act. The tax relief for a donation to the Fund should be compensated by other revenue. There is no information on the financial and other means necessary to implement the new arrangements. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Daniela Saveklieva and Adlena Shevked raised questions related to the category of elderly people, with the need to adopt such a law, about the contradictions with the Administrative Procedure Code. The questions asked were answered by the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Dimitar Danchev. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to adopt a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. At its regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill for elderly people, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by one of the importers, the MP Mr. Georgi Gokov. He briefed the members of the Commission on the objectives of the Bill, which are to settle public relations and conduct public policy in support of the elderly. Supporting people throughout their lives is one of the main objectives of the social policy of the modern state. In the course of the discussion, MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed support for the bill, focusing on the need to codify the legal framework concerning the socio-economic dimensions of life, which lead older people in Bulgaria. Other arguments were raised in support of this bill. The opposite opinion was expressed by MPs from the parliamentary group of PP GERB, who said they did not support the bill. It does not address any problem affecting the life, health, social inclusion of elderly people, nor does it achieve the objective proposed by the importers of a real and effective state policy in support of the elderly in practice. In this order of thought it was pointed out that in the legislation in force in a broad sense all the main provisions of the proposed bill were regulated, except for one, namely: the creation of a special fund of support for the elderly and a board of directors to it. The Vice-President of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova informed the MPs that no representative organization of people with disabilities supports the bill and focuses on the fact that the problems with the lives of elderly people in Bulgaria are serious and require a wider debate. According to the draft law under consideration in written observations, they have expressed that they do not support it: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry of Health does not express support for the bill in its written opinion. Support has expressed in writing the Bulgarian Medical Union. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. From the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints, please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 14 September 2017 discussed and discussed the Old People's Bill, No 754-01-47, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska. She said that Bulgaria's social policy in recent years has been seriously influenced by the developing processes and trends in the Member States of the European Union, with which our country is building a European social model. Within this model, serious attention is paid not only to issues such as extending labour life and maintaining activity, but also to issues such as intergenerational solidarity, providing quality long-term care for the elderly and ensuring a decent standard of living for those who are no longer involved in the labour market, the national representative said. She stressed that by the end of 2015 the total number of people over 60 years in Bulgaria was about 2 million and over 17 percent of them lived in poverty, which shows the serious need to address legislative initiatives to this population group. The bill provides for the establishment of the Old People's Support Fund to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and examines principles and conditions for its financing. The principle of fundraising under the Fund, as well as control, and monitoring of the implementation of the policies for the elderly, is regulated. The Bill regulates public relations related to the situation and status of elderly people by basing on the development of a long-term programming document. During the debate on the bill the MPs Snezana Dukova, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov took over. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Svilenski stressed the need for such a law with a view to synthesizing the entire legal framework related to care for the elderly. National Representative Snezana Dukova expressed support for the elderly, but explicitly pointed out that all the initiatives described in the bill are regulated in the current legislation. Ms. Dukova said that the financial provision of the proposed provisions is not coherent and there is no clarity about the necessary funds. On the basis of the discussion and following the vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 6 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Gokov, please submit the bill on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the end of the first session of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria we submitted a bill for elderly people, more precisely on 25 July 2017. Now, 9 months later, after this bill was in no way included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly by the Conference of Presidents and at least three failed attempts by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to be included and discussed by the Assembly, today on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is obliged to examine the proposals made in substance. I, as one of the importers of the Bill, will present it to you, but I will start a little bit more unconventional. I'll start with a parable. We Bulgarians have many parables that, with the wisdom of the people, raise moral values. One such parable is the story of the hook. One man had a good family, and everyone was very happy until the day the man grew old and collapsed. His son and daughter-in-law had a duty to look after him, but it was hard to look after an old and sick man, and they were tired of it all very soon, and they decided to throw him into the dump. The son took a hook, hooked his father and dragged him to the dump. The grandson witnessed what happened, and when the father left, he ran and took the hook. His father saw all this and asked him why he had taken the hook, and the little boy innocently and spontaneously answered: "One day I will need it for you too. " He was ashamed of his son and took his father home. We will not deny that this parable leaves unforgettable impressions and aims at raising certain moral values in children, but, in this case, respect and care for the elderly. However, why have these grown-up children today's politicians forgotten these fundamental Bulgarian values and care for the elderly remained in the background? The parable brings to the fore a problem that is a global concern for those who cannot handle themselves. The problem is global, but when we talk about Bulgaria, you can be sure that this terrible problem is more pronounced, wherever it may be. It is complicated and difficult to care for these people, so it is not only our society that pretends not to notice the old and the weak, the rejected and their problems, but also the state that has to take care of everyone. Now, if we break this parable through the prism of an increasingly ageing population in a global, European and, above all, in our own, Bulgarian aspect, we must agree that the problem of care for the elderly is growing along with an increasing number, not just as a wave, but as a rising tide. The magazine "Kurier" of UNESCO says: "Worldly, the number of people over 65 years of age will grow quadruple from 1955 to 2025, and their percentage against the entire population will increase. I will not give examples of the growing population in other countries, but this is a trend and this is an increasingly ageing population in the world, except that it worries economists, financiers, health and social workers, it must also make politicians reconsider some of their prejudices towards aging and take adequate measures. It is this ageing of the population, the disintegration of our society in the sense of passing from large families who lived together to cope with difficulties, to small families, accompanied by the culture that has been imposed in recent decades, raising individualism, that makes the problems of older people significant and difficult to solve, mostly, of lonely elderly people and of those who cannot cope alone. It is necessary for the state, apart from policies focused on vulnerable and risky groups such as youth, young parents, socially weak, refugees and so on, to start thinking about policies in support of one another, not less risky group, that of older people. It cannot be denied that for the people of Bulgaria after they retire, figuratively speaking, life ends their social contacts are greatly limited, as well as opportunities for enjoying free from domestic and family responsibilities; life is no longer so intense and interesting after they have completed their active social and social life; suddenly income falls several times; life changes radically. In Bulgaria, retiring, in most cases means the beginning of the suffering and hardships and the difficult experience. Yeah, that's exactly what it means for that close to $1 million. Three hundred thousand. Bulgarians with pensions below the poverty line! Besides, the rest of the nearly 900,000 that are above the poverty line are no exception. Older people not only are forgotten, but they seem to have been thrown out in the literal sense of the dump to do as they can. Let's ask ourselves the question all together in this room: a country that takes care of its elderly people, are we? Do we show them the respect we need? And we owe it to them! They have given their youth in favor of the state and now it has to repay them by providing them with calm old age. This isn't just about their physical condition. It is clear that one law cannot settle this! But it's about supporting these people. Our conviction of the importers and the party I represent, BSP, is that the support of people throughout their life cycle is one of the main objectives of social policy. However, young generations are not always able to give deserved gratitude and understanding to previous generations who have contributed to the country's economic growth. The principles of solidarity, equality and accessibility would not have this significance in Bulgaria's social policy if they were not accompanied by real measures and policies to support all from the youngest to the oldest. Our policy regarding and supporting elderly people for a decent life is consistent. This is why it is important to have such a law, a law for elderly people, which governs public relations and the conduct of public policy in support of the elderly and ensures conditions for a full and active life and for their equal participation in public life. This law is not only necessary to overcome social differences, inequalities and situations of social exclusion, which undoubtedly exist, but is a legislative act that will help people live decently in their old age, whether it is assisted by personal and social assistants, by social workers and medical staff, or still doing so on their own in their daily lives. Thus, it is also a law for those who, although maintaining their ability to live independently and unassisted, need an active social life, an opportunity to continue to develop as individuals, even though they are no longer actively involved in working life. Last but not least, elderly people, and mostly pensioners, also need the instruments of social inclusion policy to feel a part of society, to enjoy all social rights and to have access to all the goods arising from the country's economic growth. However, this is not possible if pensioners and elderly people in general are isolated from development processes in different areas of social life. These are the most general policy principles that we have laid down in the Bill. Other key points that complement and determine the need for this bill are, first of all, elderly people do not only need material support, but also social support. Secondly, elderly people are one of the most important groups in society, and they need to understand this, and society must testify to it. Thirdly, people at retirement age have the potential to be encouraged to use. Fourth, combining the instruments of long-term care and social inclusion will contribute to a more comprehensive account of the needs of pensioners for a more flexible address to these needs and, accordingly, to better results. According to this bill, the state must guarantee the freedom of elderly people to associate, to freely form organisations for the protection and conduct of their interests and to define the conditions for entering, participating and exiting them. The Bill defines the central and local authorities and mechanisms for conducting the policies for elderly people. Part of the mechanisms that we have provided for in this bill are the National Strategy for a full and active tool for elderly people, which is a long-term programming document which defines the basic principles of the policy in support of the elderly. The national strategy shall be implemented through three-year national programmes specifying the measures and means for their implementation. The essence of the bill is in support of the elderly, which is realized by developing and implementing programs and measures for the full and active life of the elderly in the field of social inclusion, social and cultural cohesion, health, education and training, care for the elderly in a foster family. Promotional measures are envisaged for elderly people who have a temporary character and aim at speeding up the achievement of real opportunities for elderly people in specific areas of public life and which are applied to remove obstacles to balanced representation of elderly people in all areas of public life. The bill also regulates the financial provision of the support policy for elderly people, first of all, through the creation of the "Support for elderly people" to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Principles and Conditions for its functioning. Secondly, regulation of fundraising under this fund in support of the elderly. Control and monitoring of the implementation of the adult policy shall be arranged. I'm done with the bill. I am far from thinking that this presentation is complete with the Bill, but I think that I have largely been able to convey to you the direction, objectives and policies we are pursuing with it, and I hope that we will all make a good consensus and working bill together from this bill. Thank you for your attention and I expect your understanding of the positive adoption of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I'm opening the debates on the Old People's Bill. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I also take the floor as an importer of the Bill and as a man with elderly grandparents, but also as a defender of the thesis that every social group needs support and protection. Bulgaria is among the ten countries with the most ageing population and we are obliged to create conditions for full and active life. This group of our society deserves our attitude. The attitude towards older people is an example of assessment and sense of responsibility; the attitude towards those who have dedicated their lives to building Bulgaria; to those who raised us and raised us. Have they not earned respect at the end of their active life? They probably didn't! Because the bill was submitted nine months ago and has not yet found a place on the agenda. It is a shame that for you the problems of older people do not exist, all the more so that 1 million and 200,000 pensioners do not exist normally and take pensions below the poverty line. You know, a few days ago, I met an ex-teacher of mine and she told me about how she felt when she received a decision about her newly granted pension. He tells me: I have had an emotional shock because such an attitude and such humiliation I have never felt in my life until now 45 years of service and 248 лв. ▪ Is this existence worthy?! No, it's not. lt's cynical, ladies and gentlemen ruling. Reading the dry official opinions and recommendations on the benefits and harms of the Law gives me the impression that only we have an attitude towards the elderly, that only we have an attitude towards them, because the government has done everything they need to do, and everything is normal in this country against them................................. and financially. Perhaps for you the problems are invisible, and so you decided that this law would last for a few more months, as you decided that the problems of another group of needy do not exist and used the argument that they have T-shirts with some inscription to prevent you from hearing their needs. You'll probably say again that the bill wasn't signed well and that we'll wait. We'll wait as long as we wait for sign language. The missionary clubs have been pushing for a new law on elderly people for years to protect their rights, but how much longer will they wait? Maybe until the next term: 3, 4, and for how long?! Dear colleagues, being retired in Bulgaria is more than a challenge. In a civilized society, there is nothing more natural than care, love and respect for the people of the third age. They need us. Let us not exclude them from our lives, but to be close to them, for they have a vast supply of wisdom and life experience, and we must use it. Very often they listen to our problems, but apparently we are deaf to their problems and pain. They led a decent life, built Bulgaria with endless energy, and today the Bulgarian pensioner is facing the threshold of physical survival. Our state and society are in debt to them. They need it here and now, not on another day, where you'll keep them waiting, because then they might not be there. Old age is a natural part of the life of each and every one of us, and let us work together to make sure that they experience their old age with dignity. My fellow Members, I call on you to support the Bill today, and then at second reading, to create more constructive texts so that we are not ashamed of ourselves tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, I am amazed by your statement because you are confusing the notions. Are we looking at a law for elderly people right now and discussing or a draft law for pensioners? In your speech, you are constantly talking about pensioners and old age, and in the draft law on elderly people, which we are currently looking at, you have determined the age of older people over 60 years. It has nothing to do with retirement age with the elderly, you're constantly confusing these concepts. According to the Social Security Code, the retirement age in 2018 for men is 64 years and 1 month and for women is 61 years and 2 months. Retirement age has nothing to do with the elderly, because people from 60 years of age to the age of retirement are at work and need neither support nor protection. They work, they need work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, explain to Mrs. Angelova that she is confusing the concepts. It's not about pensioners at all, it's about elderly people, some of whom are retired. If Mrs. Angelova is not aware of this, let her read the Social Security Code, let her read other things. Mrs. Jeleva, explain these things to her. Age, Mrs. Zheleva, explain to Mrs. Angelova that it is 60 years of age because unspokenly in the UN is adopted this age, and people after 60 years are called elderly people. [[Noise and lines.]] When you speak, you answer my line, explain to Mrs. Angelova that this bill regulates the rights and lives of the elderly. These people between 60 and 65 years of age need support because they do not hire them, they do not have the respect they need, they are at the end of their work path, but there is no need to treat them. Explain these things to Mrs. Angelova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A very interesting way to set a line and replicate. Third line? I won't. Please, Mrs. Jeleva, explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u18	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleague Gokov, first of all, to your reply, yes, you partly answered the questions that Mrs. Angelova asked me, for which I thank you. Now to Mrs. Angelova's line. You're amazed?! No, I'm amazed at your line. How can you say that one part of the elderly from 60 to 64 years of age, because we say that they are not retired yet, do not need help? Mrs. Angelova, I want you to go to your constituency in a club of elderly people for interest and say that they do not need them. I want you to say that in front of them! The other thing is, yes, we are talking about a limit of 60 years, and 60 to 64 years are 4 years. That's petty to me. You are once again dealing with small-time, not the essence of the matter. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Any other speeches? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Care for elderly people is an indicator of the maturity of society and its governance. It is therefore particularly important for elderly people and their needs to be in the focus of any state policy. I'll start with the sad stats. In demographic terms, the ageing of the population appears to be a long-lasting and difficult reversible social process in Bulgaria. According to Eurostat forecasts, the share of population in the Republic of Bulgaria from 60 years of age will increase from 17.4% in 2010 to 32.7% in 2060. In 2016, older people over 60 years of age are around 1 million. $700,000. people or 24% of the country's population. Compared to 2015 the share of the population in this age group increased by 0.5 percentage points. The average population is constantly increasing in recent years. In 1995 this indicator was 38.9 years, in 2001. In 2016, it reached 43,5 years. In 2016 the population of Bulgaria continued to decline. According to the National Statistical Institute as of 31 December 2016 the population of Bulgaria is 7 million. 101,000. 859 people, representing 1.4% of the population of the European Union. Compared to 2015 the country's population decreased by 51 thousand. Souls. In view of the fact that the ageing population is increasing and with this sad statistics, we must strive to take a balanced approach to ageing by promoting the activity of elderly people and simultaneously providing conditions for their full participation in the social and economic plan. The measures that we need to take in this direction must be linked to achieving high quality lives for people of all ages to improve productivity, for greater solidarity between generations and social cohesion in the conditions of a lasting ageing society. The reduction and ageing of the population has a direct impact on the functioning and financial stability of such important social systems as the labour market, the pension system, the health system, social assistance, long-term care and education. This implies the development of complex measures to adapt the public sector to ageing processes and to provide better conditions for the inclusion of the elderly in public and economic life. As you well know, a horizontal principle is adopted in Bulgaria, we have also heard this in the opinions of the committees related to the settlement of public relations and policies for the elderly, but there is no overall vision for support of the elderly population in Bulgaria. In order to stress that this is not exotic, I would like to mention several countries and the developed countries in the European Union that have similar legislation: in Austria, an Act is in place for elderly people, accompanied by a Federal Advisory Council under the auspices of the Federal Chancellor; in France, an Act for the Assistance of Elderly People; in Finland, "The Law on Fundamental Rights of Elderly People's; in Italy, "a special legislative package for elderly people." Analogical legislation and state-public institutions have also been established in other European countries - Denmark, Hungary, Slovenia, Czech Republic. So, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, it is high time for Bulgaria to take the dangerous statistics that I have pointed out just now to take some comprehensive and long-term measures to support the elderly. It is for this reason that in this draft new law we have laid down a comprehensive regulation of policies for elderly people. I would like to emphasise a few things with regard to the views of some of the ministries on our law, and I would like to tell you that, as always, the government is offering us some future possible plans. In one of the opinions they point out that the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 is laid down perhaps somewhere in the future for the development of a National Strategy for the Promotion of Active Ageing and the gradual introduction of the Active Ageing Index at national and regional level. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in our bill that we have identified the need to create such a strategy, but not possibly ever in the future, but today and now, because this is extremely important. When we talk about deinstitutionalization and how important it is to Bulgaria, it is in our bill that we offer a new opportunity for care for the elderly through the so-called foster families. But all of this seems exotic to you precisely because it is our proposal, because our proposals must be rejected and not on the principle of what is useful to our country. In conclusion, I will say something else extremely important: being an adult in Bulgaria has long become a term for belonging to the poorest and neglected strata of our society. With the support of our bill, let us signal to the elderly that we already have the views that they need our targeted support and it is not just about social care for them, but about inclusion in public life adequately and effectively, with training opportunities, because a very large part of the elderly want to continue working, with an opportunity for elderly people to participate in public life through a nationally represented organisation. All these policies that relate to their problems should be resolved through this nationally represented organisation, adequately heard by the management, adequately solved. In this regard, it is extremely important to have a nationally represented organisation to be heard. This is also proposed in our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Genov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We in our group have examined this bill in sufficient detail. We said a lot of the opinions in the committees. I participate in the Committee on Health and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, so I attended the serious debates. A lot of our arguments coincide with the arguments expressed in the statements on the bills. We all know that most of the opinions are in a negative sense. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that still in art. 1 of the Bill writes: "The Law governs public relations and conducts public policy in support of the elderly and ensuring conditions for a full and effective life and equal participation in public life. " I quote the Bill, which means that at the moment the Bill has some serious obstacles to the conduct of such a state policy in support of the elderly. Personally, I've never heard of such obstacles before. We've talked to our colleagues, we've clearly not found any obstacles like this. That's where the question comes from. Why, why, what is the point of creating such a bill? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 of the bill, as a doctor, I am interested in the following: the Minister of Health creates conditions for adequate access of elderly people to health services. As a practitioner, I suppose and all the colleagues in the gym who are in the health care system, I can say that elderly people have no problem with access to health services compared to other age groups. Even on the contrary, we have all seen when we go to the clinic, the dominant patients are adults. This is quite natural because the incidence in them is greater. Then, in the second paragraph of that article, the obligations of the Minister of Health under the Law were to promote prevention and early diagnosis in order to prevent and prolong the lives of the elderly. This, as postulated in this way, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, is not serious. We cannot adopt a law that creates conditions to prevent only one particular group and only this group to prolong life. Prevention, I think, does not need to get carried away on this issue, is a comprehensive process and is a matter of national policy. Prophylactic activities for socially significant diseases, I suppose, are listed in the Bill, are not done on a random age group, because each disease or group of diseases has a different incidence of morbidity in different age groups. Prophylaxis cannot be done only in a particular age group, it is a complete process and is derived from the nature of the disease. In the entire bill, as the age of 60 years is determined, I cannot understand exactly what is the difference in the specific needs of a person who is just 60 years ago, and for example a person who is shortly after 60 years. There's no such difference to me. I'm talking about specific needs. In fact, by accepting what we say, that is, by not accepting what we say, you are trying to suggest that we, by not wanting to support this bill, are not interested in the problems of the elderly, strongly contradicts the truth. We are interested in elderly people's problems because, as our colleague said just now, she has relatives who are elderly people, I am sure that almost everyone has relatives who are elderly, so we are alive interested in these problems. The point is that this bill solves absolutely nothing in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, I am glad that you have examined in detail in the group the Bill, but I do not know what you have heard from him. [[Shouting from GERB.]] I've heard your criticism... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Something ignites these people from there. Let them come from the stands and speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u25	Mr. Gokov, for such statements, you want my resignation that I didn't react. Please! In other words, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u26	What other words should be? I said, you've looked into it in detail in the group, but you don't understand what it's all about. By listening to the speeches, by the way, the only statement, I do not know if you are at all in the class what is proposed in this bill. You are criticising individual members of the Bill, which is the subject of a second vote, and you are not speaking in general on politics, on the views in the Law. Do you accept such a bill for the elderly, or do you not accept it? You hide behind the opinions of different professional groups, ministries and departments, and do not say your attitude towards the problems of the elderly. I can speak to you for hours at any time, but you can't convince the audience, and those people standing outside who are waiting for adequate decisions from the National Assembly that this government is thinking about the elderly. For 30 years, elderly people have been placed in the corner, and when they are approaching retirement age, they are isolated from social, labor and all life. Thirty years the people in this National Assembly have done nothing about it. Thirty years, of which eight rules GERB. Now you're saying again that this bill is not good, and you're not saying what you're proposing. If you say tomorrow we are proposing a bill for the elderly, which will solve their problems, I will agree. I'm far from thinking that the project is perfect, but we can make it perfect in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Another line? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Genov, you know perfectly well, and all colleagues in this House know that the regulated age in this bill is not the problem at all. Thus formulated this age can always be corrected at second reading, honourable Member Genov. We know very well that here everything that has been proposed by our parliamentary group will not go for one reason or another. Let us answer the question: do we have a comprehensive legislative vision to deal with elderly people's problems? If we want this bill to become more working, more efficient, we should do it. Between first and second readings, we have this opportunity. When you talk about opportunity and access to health care, if we go and ask a large percentage of older people over 60 years of age, if we see statistics - 60% of the population in Bulgaria lives below the poverty line, so that each one of those people who are isolated socially need support and access to health care because it is not provided, dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Genov, I have listened carefully to your speech. Unfortunately, once again, I am witnessing how out of context words can be professionally presented by you as big mistakes and almost untenable those in this bill. I think this is not at all medical or political. I agree with this, and I therefore allow myself to address you in order to try to put on the House two major problems that this law solves and to ask for reflection in each Member of the National Assembly. The first problem is that the problem for elderly people in Bulgaria, no matter where the World Health Organization's border is, that it is already proposed to be changed, and you know very well as a doctor when it is already spoken about middle age. This border is now such, but the second biggest problem for Bulgaria is that care for the elderly is not really being taken. Given that we are facing a reversal of the demographic cone, which is tragic for Bulgaria, given that only a few months ago we were discussing the problems of the demographic crisis and I correctly pointed out to you what outrage was written in the demographic problem group at the Council of Ministers that we should get used to the fact that the Bulgarian population is shrinking, we are putting another problem of reflection before the Bulgarian nation that we are not interested. You claim to be interested, but with what we are realizing at the moment, we demonstrate that we are not interested in the problems of the elderly, and these people are with minimal income, with minimal, and with increasingly minimalizing opportunities and is right, and it is shown to us by our colleagues in this House that in many countries in developed Europe such laws exist. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u31	Dr. Genov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman! I will almost simultaneously answer all three questions because they are in almost the same stylistics. I will respond in this way: let us not forget that any law or bill that must be voted on, adopted and become operational must resolve some extremely unresolved issues so far or settle some new need. Professor Mihailov, I agree that there may not be adequate care for the elderly, but it is in the same style for all age groups. They do not differ much from caring for other age groups. I keep saying that I don't see the point in why we should select a particular group of people and put them in a privileged position over others. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov: "Die, die! "]] Well, everyone dies, Mr. Pawnov, I can tell you that's true. In this form, and in this law, I continue to argue the same, he does not support or solve any issue that is relevant and that the elderly would need to be resolved. Moreover, if you have read the opinion of the Social Ministry, it is explained that a draft is currently being prepared for a new law on social services, in which there is a very large section that will deal exactly with the issues for people who are at a certain age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u34	I have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u35	I asked, Mr. Ademov. I'm sorry. I put to the vote a bill for the elderly, No 754-01-47, tabled by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 177 MPs: 78 against 4, abstention 95. The bill is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a re-voting procedure, as I and my fellow Members have failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u37	Thank you. I am re-voting the newly-voted bill. Vote 185 MPs: 77 against 4, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item of the program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers: MPs Valentin Kasabov and group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-82, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 30 November 2017. At its meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-82, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 30 November 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Supreme Lawyers Council. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who pointed out that the proposals made aimed at improving the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in committing crimes affecting the forest fund and their prevention. It is proposed to extend the definition of the person responsible and to increase the circle of officials, the assault against whom constitutes a qualified composition of crime. The Law aims to increase the share of the completed administrative criminal proceedings and increase the amount of administrative penalties imposed for forest infringements. On the bill were received negative opinions from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and from the Supreme Court of Cassation, a positive opinion from Coalition In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev, Simeon Naydenov, Krum Zarkov and Daniel Kirilov. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he agrees with the law enforcement notes and stated readiness to refine the provisions of the proposed bill. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Law, Mrs. Gigova expressed her opinion that the extension of the definition of the concept of a person in charge of law is an impractical legislative technique. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Criminal Code, No 754-01-82, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on November 30, 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Importer's reasons, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u40	Reasons to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code: The proposals made to amend and supplement the Criminal Code aim at increasing the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in the conduct of criminal offences in forests and preventing them. The provision of art. 93, para. 1, t. 1 concerning the definition of the concept of a person in charge by adding a new letter "in', namely a person entrusted with a salary or free, temporary or permanent work relating to the holding, conservation and/or control in the forestry areas. An amendment to art. 131, para. 2 of the Penal Code, extending the circle of officials, the abuse against which constitutes a qualified composition of crime. The current text of art. 131, para. 2 of the Criminal Code, which refers to the employees of the Forestry Executive Agency, does not reflect the changes in the forestry sector after the adoption of the Forests Act in 2011, as a result of which state forestry farms are separated from the Forestry Executive Agency, which is why Article is required. 131, para. 2 to be completed by adding employees of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forests Act and their divisions, as well as the employees of municipal forest structures carrying out conservation and control activities of forest areas and game. With the proposed amendments from the Chambers of Crimes under art. 235 and 237 are excluded from the acts whose subject matter or damage is up to one minimum wage. The same shall become subject only to administrative criminal proceedings, thus aiming to increase the percentage of the completed administrative criminal proceedings and the administrative penalties imposed for forest infringements. In the current legal framework in the Criminal Code, where it is found that the unlawful act committed in forest areas constitutes a criminal offence, the case shall be sent to the prosecution. The analysis of the practice in recent years, based on administrative criminal proceedings by the Regional Forest Directorates, the acts drawn up by them to establish an administrative infringement and the penal decrees issued, shows that in 90 per cent of the cases pre-trial proceedings are terminated due to minority and the case files are returned to the administrative punishing authority. This leads to a delay in the process of imposing the appropriate penalty on the violator or, at all, to the inability to carry out administrative criminal liability, which is why the unlawful act committed remains unpunished and creates a prerequisite for committing new infringements. A better version of the act under art. 235, para. 1, namely, it is envisaged that which illegally chops, collects, acquires, takes or carries any trees or parts thereof, including cut or fall, when the subject of the crime or damage is worth more than one minimum wage, to be punished by imprisonment for up to six years and with a fine of one thousand to twenty thousand levs. More precise editorials of the provisions of para. 2 and 3 of art. 235. In para. 4 and para. 5 when the crimes under para. 1 "3" of art. 235 were committed by a person acting under an order or in the execution of a decision of an organised criminal group or when they constitute a dangerous relapse, and when the subject of the crime is in particularly large proportions and the case is particularly severe, an opportunity for the court to impose and confiscation to one second of the property of the guilty is offered. A new para is being created. 7, with which for cases where the subject of the crime under para. 1 "6" of art. 235 or the damage caused is worth less than one minimum wage, but the perpetrator of the act has imposed an administrative penalty under the Forests Act in the previous 24 months, starting from the date of the offence, provision is made for imprisonment of up to one year or probation of up to two years. New compositions are proposed in art. 237 of the NK which concern crimes related to the pursuit of hunting which are common in practice but outside the scope of that provision. In para. 1 is offered a more severe punishment for the one who kills or catches without due permission large game, namely imprisonment up to two years or probation up to four years and with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. A change in the provision of para. 2, with a view to better editing. It is proposed that, without due permission, kill or catch small game where the subject of the crime or damage is worth more than one minimum wage, be punished with imprisonment up to six months or with probation up to one year and with a fine of 300 to 500 BGN, and by deprivation of rights under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7 of the NK. It is also criminalized with the creation of a new para. 3 storage, transport, transport or concealment of illegally killed or caught game, or found sick, wounded or dead game, or identifiable parts of game, where the subject of the crime or damage is worth more than one minimum wage. In these cases, there is a prison sentence of up to three years, a fine of 1000 to 5000 BGN. and disbarment under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. When the crime under para. 1 or 2 of art. 237 was committed in prohibited hunting time, no hunting place or prohibited means, or damage of over 1000 BGN were caused, it is proposed that the punishment be imprisonment for up to three years, a fine of 1000 to 5000 BGN. and disbarment under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. In case of relapse, the penalty is proposed to be imprisonment for up to five years, fine and deprivation of rights under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. With the proposed addition in art. 323a, para. 1 of the NK, building a building in forest territory without legal basis is considered a crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has been explained by the reasons of the importers, the proposals aim to increase the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in forest crime and the prevention of the same ones, which is undoubtedly a subject that deserves attention, and they should be congratulated for putting it on the agenda. Illegal logging and what is happening in the Bulgarian forests is extremely important. What is unpleasant in this case is that the texts proposed do not largely correspond to these reasonings and will most likely lead to nothing but confusion in the application and the existing texts, and these texts by common finding clearly do not apply well. Whether they are applied well or good the texts themselves have a big difference. Specifically, the motives are divided into several parts and I will try to explain what our concerns about them are. First of all, supplementing the concept of an official with the inclusion of the sign of work relating to management, conservation and control in the forest areas is to a large extent pointless, as at the moment in art. 93, p. The Criminal Code (Criminal Code) is listed as criteria for the definition of the concept of a person responsible for the type of work among which those associated with the conservation and management of foreign property and the place where it is carried out. Even less meaningful is the proposal for a change in the concept of an official because the heart, the key to the Law, namely the proposals in changes of art. 131 which refer to qualified bodies for the purpose of causing bodily harm to certain victims, who are normally of the quality of an official or the legislator, considered that they should need new greater protection, there the proposal does not concern para. 1 which concerns officials, a.k.a. 2 which concerns precisely those categories of persons engaged in special activities. At the outset, this text concerned only those engaged in criminal justice activities. These were prosecutors, judges, investigators, police authorities, investigators and others. This text was subsequently expanded in 2013 and included teachers, medical staff and others. We decided that they should be better protected by criminal law. One by hand is that it is worth further consideration to what extent the continuous extension of this text is useful, but another is worth noting here. We are offered to extend this protection to game security officers in a hunting association, which is a private organisation in essence and does not seem to fit into the logic of the whole text. As for the change in the main composition concerning this type of criminality of the Criminal Code, art. 235 of the Penal Code, this change largely changes the whole meaning and the purpose of the text. On the one hand, it is proposed, instead of as so far, to establish this crime where, without a regular written permit or with a regular permit, but outside the places indicated therein, it cuts, collects or hauls, instead of saying Okay, but in order to establish that it is against the law, it will still have to pass this preliminary check that it does not comply with the prior authorisation or is not, that is, it will not contribute much to improving the prosecution and its easier proof. But something else might be more important. The removal of the words from the forest fund is turning this crime from a crime against forestry into a crime in individual businesses, that is, it changes completely the place where this text should be in the Penal Code. It's not just a theoretical problem. In this way, the act is now becoming a crime against property, in general, in theft, and this raises the question of whether the same acts can be sanctioned in different texts, which is contrary to the basic principle of criminal law, and this should not be allowed. With some of the changes again in these texts of art. Art. 235, Art. 237 attempts are also made to introduce criminal liability for persons who have previously been punished in administrative order. The importers have defined their editorials as precise, but we think they are largely inaccurate and raise more questions than solve problems. For example, how these rules relate to the various existing administrative criminal groups and whether they will not result in simultaneous imposition of both criminal and administrative responsibility which does not comply with the rule of law. One last thing so I don't take up any more time. Four opinions have been made by specialized institutions - three of them - that of the Prosecutor General, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Ministry of Justice - do not support the texts for similar reasons with those I have given. Therefore, although we support the idea and are ready to open the debate on illegal logging in the Bulgarian forests, we will refrain from supporting the texts because of their vague preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I will take a very brief view of the proposal made by my fellow Members. A really important topic is opening up and I think now is the right time to open it on the conservation of the forest fund and the game in Bulgaria. Based on the opinions of the four bodies that have submitted their opinions on the proposed bill, I would also support the draft bill so made, and I would call on my fellow Members to support it, only I would ask you really carefully to specify the second part, which concerns the Penal Code in art. 237, where new penalties are introduced and penalties for catching small game are formulated so that we do not find ourselves there in a hypothesis where, on other violations of the Penal Code, fewer penalties are received than we would impose on the offenders, who we want to sanction and re-inquire, and to protect the game of Bulgaria. I would support the bill, I would support it, I would call on my colleagues to do so with the agreement for our colleagues to sit down and refine this part of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also address you with a call to support the bill. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, and now before you in this Chamber, I declare that we will make changes between first and second readings in this bill. We have met carefully, colleague Zarkov, with the critical remarks in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Court of Cassation and, for the most part, to tell you that we fully agree with them. I also believe that the amendment to § 1 is not really necessary and now the text is well formulated, there is no need to introduce a special group of persons as a separate type of officials in the definition given in art. 93. As for the changes in the qualified body injury composition, yes, perhaps this editing really needs to be refined in the way it is formulated. There, too, we will make the necessary changes in line with the professional community's opinions. The same applies to the texts of art. 235 and 237. I will not agree only with regard to the dispute, which does not really only have theoretical significance, it also has practical relevance to art. 235, para. 1. There we have several forms of execution and not all of the forms of execution fall within the scope of a crime against property as the object of the act. One of the implementing acts is the very doing of illegal logging, without having to withdraw the carved timber, so it makes sense to be in this chapter and in this text this change. Article 237 also needs to be refined and edited. Such observations are made in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation and in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. We will respect these opinions and these remarks between first and second readings if we receive your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any lines on Mr. Mitev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Colleagues, any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importers Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 30 November 2017. Vote 155 MPs: 97 against 9, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO EXAMINATE THE EMPLOYANT OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING EMIL MARINOV CHRISTOV. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 27 April 2018. Colleagues, the request was submitted on Friday. The Rules of Procedure should be the first sitting day to consider this draft decision, so today it is tabled as a point in the Programme. I give the floor to a representative of the importers to brief us on the motives and the draft decision within ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, the National Assembly has three main functions. Of course, the first is legislative, the second is control over the executive power and the third is a communication forum. This function directly influences the formation of public opinion. The performance of these three functions, especially of the latter, directly influences the trust in the National Assembly, as well as the authority of each Member of the National Assembly. Which of these functions was performed when the Vice-President of the National Assembly did not allow Bulgarian citizens in the National Assembly to express their serious problems, but held them for more than an hour as punishment in front of the National Assembly building, after which Pilate Pontiski washed his hands with the head of security? That is why we propose an early release of Mr. Emil Hristov from the post of Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly due to a systematic failure of the duties which are part of his competence, and this systemality he managed to create in just two consecutive sessions. First of all, according to art. 8, para. 1, t. 14 of our Rules, the President and, in his absence, the Vice-President, shall supervise the internal and external guards of the National Assembly, which shall be placed under his authority. On 18 April 2018, the National Assembly's guards refused access to the building of Bulgarian citizens with properly issued gaps. These Bulgarian citizens, who are disabled, have been waiting for more than an hour outside the parliament building to be admitted. The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Hristov, without any reason whatsoever, refuses to allow them into parliament, with which he rudely violates the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and its rules of internal order. Mr. Emil Hristov's actions believe that he seriously undermines the authority of the National Assembly and undermines the trust in him. Again at the meeting on 19 April 2018, Mr. Emil Hristov, in an attempt to justify the non-discrimination of disabled people in the National Assembly building, stated that he did not know about the non-compliance of these citizens and wanted to talk to the head of security, and this conversation could not have taken place, as the people had to wait another 15 minutes. Mr. Hristov's claims do not rest on the objective truth and responsibilities of the Vice-President, who was the head of the National Assembly on that day as the President was absent. The disabled citizens waited more than an hour before parliament, as I already said, which is enough time for Mr. Hristov to talk to the head of security and to fulfill his duties under art. 8, para. 1, t. 14 of our rules. Despite the explicit request of the National Representative Anton Kutev, the Vice-President of the Assembly, without motives, has again refused to allow citizens into the building. What threat were these citizens to the MPs? The inscription "The System kills us" is not a threat, dear Mr. Hristov, honourable Members of the National Assembly, it is a serious truth! People had come here to express their pain, but you wouldn't let them. Moreover, next, Mr. Hristov, acting as Vice-President of the National Assembly in the ruling session on 19 April, despite the explicit provisions in our rules, admitted arrogant behavior: hate language, abusive words, confrontation and division. The declaration read by the National Representative Spas Gurnevski on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB contained a number of insulting qualifications, expressions, words, baseless accusations and slanders at the address of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and its chairman Cornelia Nino, namely: "False news, intrigues, insulting, compromising, ridicule, mimicry, duplicity, cynism, a series of fictional and created in the subpoenas of the former State Security discrediting exhibitions, red demagoses and so on. Despite these unacceptable expressions and insults Mr. Emil Hristov did not take any action with regard to the reading declaration Spas Gurnevski. Despite the imperative text of art. 158 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The statement is made by the President to a Member of the National Assembly, who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats. " 158 of the Rules. Therefore, these violations, such arrogant behaviour by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, are inadmissible in a parliamentary republic, which is why we want his early release. In this regard, we also present a draft decision, which is the following: Project! DECISION on the release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Marinov Hristov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Emil Marinov Hristov as Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. The signatures have been submitted, signed by all 80 MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here's your speech, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u50	Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I address all parliamentary groups, without exceptions, without addressing BSP or GERB, or anyone. I propose that the National Assembly be ashamed once and for all! We took down Dimitar Glauchev, we took down Valeri Zablyanov, now we're hitting on Emil Hristov! How do we look on the side? The President of the National Assembly and its alternates, standing there [[shows tribune]] Sitting there, coordinating, directing, ordering the meeting and the entire life of the National Assembly and its entire movement, are always subject to certain risks. Always their movements are wrong or correct, can be subjected to criticism, to denials, to politics. However, what we do with the constant downloading, changing and such performances we do, we expose ourselves in the eyes of voters. The National Assembly is not a Mahlenian congregation! It's not a sitter! It is an expression of the highest dignity of voters! They didn't send us here to take down this guy or that guy, they sent us to pass laws that are of use to them! Don't you get that?? [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]] I have opposed the overthrow of both Mitko Glauchev and Valeri Zablyanov, and now I am against the overthrow of Emil Hristov. What we do is wrong on the ground, it brings us no dignity. Self-destruction has never been the priority of the National Assembly! Self-destruction doesn't bring any political dividends! When the time comes for one another, I will continue my speech, here is this speech when the time comes for another proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party), but I will tell you: the first communication policy (the parliamentary and non-parliamentary) has always been a failure. And that's the law! It's an axiom! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u51	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stanilov, and in your opinion, the humiliation these people have suffered is normal? Do we not expose ourselves to not admit Bulgarian citizens to the National Assembly and wash your hands with the head of security? Which was printed materials, leaflets, art. 19? Where did you see these printed materials, distribution, sale and so on? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u54	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, I understand your passionate speech, and I understand why you are saying it now, not when Valerie Jablyanov's early release was requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u55	You don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u56	You are now saying it because the resignation and colleague Yavor Notev are being requested outside. You are right that the National Assembly has never been a priority and should not be a priority for its self-destruction. The self-destruction, my fellow Member, comes from the humiliation of these Bulgarian citizens, who have been sitting outside the National Assembly building for over an hour and a half, were not allowed inside the National Assembly. The National Assembly, in the face of its chairman, humiliated these people and self-destroyed the entire National Assembly with this behaviour. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u57	Don't do that! A little more modest! The lousy rocket and the Soviet Union is interfering with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I can't see. Professor Stanilov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u59	This is not about the extent of the infringement that the President of the National Assembly has committed, nor is it about a reprimand for his conduct. This is about the level at which we fall as MPs for every single mistake, for anything, to ask for resignations. If it comes to humiliation, at your rally, socialist gentlemen, yesterday Mrs. Ninova called me pseudopatriot. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What do I do? What am I supposed to do, sue her? I don't know what to do? Where am I from, pseudopatriot? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You called us pseudopatriots in your speech. I'm one of the people you called pseudopatriots, and I heard it very well. Don't piss me off or I'll remind you... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause from OP.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u60	Calm down, Mr. Stanilov. Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u61	When the GERB is constantly waving the name of Leonid Resetnikov, to humiliate you, I will tell you that you humiliated yourself when you called him corrupt "one of the most honorable people I have known for half a century, and since then I have not been able to look at you personally. [[Speak away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u62	On the mic, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u63	I swear to God, we're making me sick to look at you! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u64	Please, please, please, Mr. Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u65	Aren't you going to make a note?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u66	I made an observation, asked Mr. Stanilov not to talk like that. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u67	Thank you, Madam President, I'll try not to be so emotional. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group will not take part in the vote on the draft decision tabled. I will not comment on the behavior of BSP for Bulgaria. Only the behavior of the government will be an occasion for our comments. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u68	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u69	We accept the request for resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly as a reason for debates on the management of GERB, on the double standards of the ruling party and on the state of democracy in Bulgaria. We insist on such debates and on finding a lasting solution for strengthening democracy and adherence to European values. We demand a statement of the emphasism of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country. We warn that this will be another attempt to distract attention from the severe problems of management, an attempt to shift important issues for society and escape from their solution. We need to concentrate on the important topics for citizens: the state of democracy, poverty and the lack of prospects. The state of democracy is judged by the attitude towards vulnerable groups, minorities and respect for human rights. We want to express clearly the opinion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the subject. We condemn the behaviour of the Vice-President of the National Assembly towards the parents of children with disabilities and special needs. However, it is more important in our view to state what are the prerequisites to get to the National Assembly and to ask the government to urgently find a solution to the problems. In the same way, we did not share the statement expressed by the former Vice-President of the National Assembly by the Bulgarian National Court of Justice (BSP) and about any form of repression and lawlessness in violation of human rights. In this assessment we are consistent. We are also consistent with the assessment of the so-called revival process. In one case, however, a decision was voted for the release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Valeri Zablyanov, in the other case we requested the resignation of the President of the Committee on Human Rights Krasimir Velchev, but such resignation was not voted on. We left the Commission. You continued to cynically overlook that fact. There was no assessment and the government allowed this year the disgraceful for democratic Bulgaria "Lukov march." The position of GERB's coalition partner for Crimea was not condemned, and there was also a Vice-President of the National Assembly. As long as there are no uniform rules and the same morality, the same attitude towards facts and circumstances, and the only thing that matters is political appropriateness and the majority formed, we will not participate in such a process. While the only argument is the argument of strength, the argument of the majority, we do not accept the morality of double standards and the model of opposition imposed by GERB. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam President, the DPS will continue to work in the name of statehood, in the name of democracy for a society which respects citizens' rights and freedoms, the right to a decent life of everyone; for a society in which no dictation and violence, hatred and discrimination are allowed, as well as double standards. We will continue to impose on the agenda of the government to be included in the resolution of the important problems and issues for citizens and society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. To speak, Mr. Kutev and then Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to emphasise deeply that it is neither a distraction nor a demotion of the debate that we have just heard. It is about something that I have not heard in this Chamber before, and this is the fact that on April 18, 2018, the National Assembly, in the face of the President then made a mistake. He made a grave mistake in my opinion, and it is precisely in the most painful part of his functions, because the absence of these people in the Chamber shows what the entire state accuses us of, blames the power, blames the National Assembly, and that is the insolence of power. It was about people with disabilities. If this had happened to someone else, maybe it wouldn't have become that problem at all. But the problem that people with disabilities were not admitted actually caused the reaction. Why? Because people with disabilities are undoubtedly the most unjust part of society. Because they claimed the system was killing them, and we said we didn't want to hear it. That was the political action that we had done. Why does the system kill them? Because the income of people with disabilities is infinitely low. Because many of them live on social pensions and with incomes between 250 and 300 BGN. a month, and each of us knows that with 250 or 300 leva. You can't live a month. Because a disabled child and 18 years of age gets 850 or 900 BGN, if he is 90% disabled, and at the moment he turns 18 he starts to receive 250 or 300 BGN. Only this sentence for him is life, because these 250 or 300 leva. He's already left for his whole life while he's alive, he's gonna get that much. Society is unfair, society puts these people in a humiliating position. Because this system that they claim kills them, this system tells these people how much percentage they're unfit to be a part of society, but it doesn't tell them how to become a part of society. This system does not tell them what the state will do for them so that they can become integrated citizens. They do not want to be in the Social Assistance Departments, they claim rightly that they are not part of the socially weak people of this country because none of them is responsible for their disability. They want to be integrated citizens who work, who live equally, who have opportunities to feel citizens of the state but cannot. That's why it was the scandal, that's why we've been talking about it for the second or third week, because these people are actually putting us in the corner with this, and we didn't let them go, and they stayed in the front for an hour and a half. These people are the most unjust part of society, because the environment they live in is inaccessible to them. By the way, this concerns directly the activity of Mr. Hristov as Vice-President of the National Assembly, because soon we will have a meeting with them again, only we have to invite them somewhere. In the National Assembly building there is not one hall that is suitable for people with disabilities. Upstairs, the East and the West, which were free a short time ago when I arranged the meetings, there they can't get up there because even if we let them through the entrance of the National Assembly, they can't get there. That is why, in the end, I say that all of us, as politicians, as representatives of political parties, are indebted to these people. We must do something for them because we represent Parliament and the state, and our country has parliamentary rule. That is why parliament and the majority in parliament are the ones who should be paying attention to these people. And instead of GERB's group not just to invite them, to listen to them and, if possible, to promise them something, if possible, to take some measures for what they propose, instead we did not even let them into the parliament building. Here's the reason for this resignation. Is there any reason to ask for the resignation not of Mr. Hristov, but of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? Well, there is! There is, and that's probably gonna happen over time. I very much hope that today's debate will lead to those conclusions because I'm looking at a few people sitting here replicating from the hall. I hope it leads you to those conclusions that instead of the lines in the room, you have to do something. [[Heckling]] For one year we have been talking about the need to change the way in which people's incompetence is assessed and the way in which the state cares about their integration. Instead, you made a ridiculous reform of TELK, which you, too, then stopped. The only thing you've done is a ridiculous reform you've stopped. Nothing else! A little change in the rules of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which led nowhere. And that's why people are on the street for the sixth time. They were there yesterday, again with the T-shirts you are killing us, and here in front of the National Assembly. Mr. Hristov, you weren't there again. Yesterday with those people who protested before the National Assembly, you were not personally you, but the whole GERB group were not there, but it was good to be there. Because when we can't give them money as a society, when we're incapable of reforming the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, at least we had to give them sympathy, at least they had to feel that someone, in some way, perceives and thinks about what they want, because personal assistants don't get enough. But it's 10 times less than 20 than it should be. It's a community issue. [[Noise and lines.]] Gentlemen of the government, these are your problems, these are the problems of those who now rule, because, as we have already spoken, some of these people who came to the protest may not live to see the next government, because for them every day is pain, because for them every day comes with the inability to even enter the National Assembly to hear them, let alone solve their problems. And for all these reasons, you gentlemen were obliged to meet them. Not only did you not meet them, you didn't let them in. Instead of inviting them to a meeting with the President of the National Assembly, you didn't even let them go. Here comes the question of what is the role of the government and what of parliament in a republic with parliamentary rule? Parliament is this... [[Noise.]] I understand that a lot of the things I'm saying right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u72	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u73	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u74	Okay, I'm sorry, I'm done, Madam President. I understand that a lot of things...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u75	Wait a minute, Mr. Kutev, there's a problem with the system. It doesn't count time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u76	We should have 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u77	Yes, 26 minutes you have spoken seven. Go ahead, then we'll subtract them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u78	I'm asking for an extension of time. The difference between parliament and the government is that the government has not done this job and, if there is a meaningful argument against our request for Mr. Hristov's resignation, it is that there is unfinished work of the Ministry here. However, I would like to raise the issue of the responsibility of the National Assembly as a senior authority. Are we here present MPs able to solve people's problems? And in this case Mr. Hristov is the person who represents our majority as then President of the National Assembly. Are we in any way capable of moving processes, because if it turns out we're not, we don't belong here?! That's grounds for resignation. Because if it turns out that the majority of GERB cannot solve the problems, what are we doing here?! Not only Mr. Christov, what are we all doing?! Solving the problems of people with disabilities is not just another social activity that is a measure of the European concept of politics. In European countries, they don't get what they get here. Because the humiliating situation of not being able to live to the end of the month is gone or, if there is, it is assisted by the state, there is care, there is attention there. And we can't make meaningful changes to the Ministry of Labour Regulations for a year and a half, and we can't write a law on social services that we already said was supposed to be ready in 2016 according to the plan that you wrote. You from GERB have adopted the Plan for Integration of People with Disabilities. It says that in 2016 the Law must be passed. He hasn't been prepared yet, and I've been talking about it in my committee for a year now. This is about something much bigger than whether we let people in or not. Of course it was unacceptable not to let them in. Of course it was a rude political mistake. Of course someone has to take responsibility for that. On the 18th we came and tried to show some face of parliament. We have tried to show these people that there are, after all, some MPs in parliament who are willing to hear them, who take them to heart and who want to solve their problems. That's why we went there. Today, parliament must show that when we make a mistake, we tend to understand it. [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] Mr. Velchev, come out and take the floor from here, I'll replicate you later. When you make a mistake, you have to take responsibility, including you, for which the DPS very rightly asked for your resignation a long time ago. Come out later and tell me how you will take your responsibility personally instead of calling like any other nameless from the end lines. It's about mistakes and forgiveness. If you want these people out there not to get back together and forgive you, you're gonna have to show that you got the wrong idea. And the error in the normal democratic system goes through resignation. This is today's BSP request. There's no way out of this. You are probably not going to vote on it now with the same arguments that you voted on Valeri Zablyanov's. Most likely you will keep the majority, Emil Hristov, which is your choice, but it will show only one thing: that you have not learned the lesson about that when a mistake is made, there must be some form of apology, if nothing else, and that the next time there people will be more. It'll be the only result. I'm sorry, personally I regret that Mr. Emil Hristov became the center of this dispute because for the many unfinished business in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy he, of course, has the least fault. Personally, humanly, I think it is probably not fair that he is at the heart of this conversation, but at the same time when such a mistake is made, there must be consequences if we want to be able to then look people in the eye without shame. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any lines to Mr. Kutev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the word provoked by the fact that many untruths were said. In the reasons you have written that you want the resignation of Mr. Hristov as Vice-President of the National Assembly due to systematic failure to comply with the obligations, arrogant behavior and undermining the prestige of the National Assembly. The request for resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly requires a serious discussion. The debate should be fought with arguments and, essentially, rather than with provocations and speculation. This is an artificially created scandal aimed at discrediting both Mr. Emil Hristov and the government, the government, that, you see, nothing is done about people with disabilities, there is no sensitivity to their problems, their demands, no one pays attention to them, no one even lets them into the National Assembly. Dear colleagues on the left, you speculate very much with the topic of people with disabilities and in general with the topic of social policy. You play, as usual, on the thin string of populism, causing scandals and provocation. The victim of these false interpretations became also the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Emil Hristov, whose resignation you now want, although the very next day he explained the case here in the National Assembly. It became clear that he was not properly aware of the situation, the information about the visit of the mothers of children with disabilities in the National Assembly was not properly presented. He wasn't the one who prevented the mothers from entering children with disabilities. Despite this misunderstanding, the distorted information, Mr. Hristov apologized the very next day here from the parliamentary tribune, to the mothers who were not admitted into the building of the National Assembly. I cannot agree with the assessment you gave the government that nothing has been done with regard to children and disabled persons. It is not true, it is a lie that nothing has been done during these years of government of the Political Party GERB! You may have forgotten that it was the government of GERB in 2017 that significantly increased the amount of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability. A new approach was introduced, differentiated according to the degree of disability, and for children with the most severe disabilities over 90 per cent, the monthly aid for a child with disability is 930 BGN, at 240 BGN. by 2016. The amount paid for 2017 amounts to nearly 162 million. lv. 26 266 children. Perhaps you have forgotten again that in Budget 2018 there is an increase of nearly 81 million in policies for people with disabilities. lv. versus 2017. This is an additional financial resource in support of children and disabled people. In total, 268 million. lv. is available in the 2018 budget for people with disabilities. From 1 January this year, we have increased the funds for monthly social integration supplements by nearly 13 million. lv. compared to 2017, as a result of the increased amount of the guaranteed minimum income of 65 BGN. £75. For 2017, we have provided an additional amount of nearly 16 million. lv. for the continuation of services "Social assistant", "Personal assistant", "Home assistant". The state budget this year guarantees sustainability of these social services, which disabled children need. The total resource for social services under these important programmes is nearly 69 million. lv. A key role in promoting social inclusion of both children and disabled persons is also played by social services in the community. In 2018, nearly 20 million. lv. the social services funds have been increased compared to 2017. In the period 2014 - 2017 a total of 124 new social services with a capacity of nearly 2000 seats were revealed. The actions and measures implemented in the area of policies for people with disabilities are a clear expression of the consistent policy pursued by the government in support of children and persons with disabilities, which will be a priority in the future. We have a desire and commitments, a vision and a strategy for changing legislation for people with disabilities. We are empathetic with the problems of children and persons with disabilities. We understand the difficulties that accompany them. We're trying to help them. We're having a dialogue. There are working groups in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for changes in legislation. With confrontation, stubbornness and lies, honourable colleagues on the left, policies are not conducted, but with dialogue, understanding and real solutions. The resignation you want from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Emil Hristov is unfounded. It is a product of distorted information and a misunderstanding, in which, unfortunately, you brought in the mothers of children with disabilities. Very quickly and easily use the situation to create another provocation in the National Assembly. We're familiar with this scenario. The toolbox with which you use speculation, provocations, distorted information is part of your targeted efforts to destabilize the government and undermine the prestige and authority of the National Assembly. We strongly object to Mr. Emil Hristov's early release from the post of Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. We, from the parliamentary group of GERB, will vote against. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u82	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you claim that we have submitted incorrect information to Mr. Hristov, but since I submitted it, I know that it was not incorrect. I understand the situation he was in. There was no other vice president, he was acting here as chairman, and as he pressed the button, he actually had to talk to me. At that time, as I said before, the colleague here was interrupting nervously and turning around because I prevented her from reading. Because she had a very important job, she had to read her lyrics at the time, and I was in the way. This situation, unfortunately, is of no use to me. I mean, it was an unpleasant situation and that he probably didn't understand everything I said. That doesn't mean I filed incorrect information. I gave him all the information he needed, and I also specifically emphasized to him that you are making a purely collective mistake that this should not happen. This thing wasn't some BSP fake that we wanted to stop you from doing. This was an attempt to clear the face of the National Assembly, which, as I said, in your personal person did not come out to talk to them. We wanted to go out to show them that here in the hall, besides Mrs. Angelova, there is someone else who is ready to talk to them. You didn't go out then, you didn't go out yesterday. All those things you've been quoting to me that the numbers here, well, Mrs. Angelova, that's what you should have done. Why didn't you go see them and tell them? Because in the end, that's why we want the resignation. Because you didn't go out to talk to them. Why didn't you come out? Well, because you're scared. Because if you go out there and tell them these things, they'll tell you the others. Why didn't you hear them? Yesterday, last night was the National Assembly protest. Were you on it? That time on the 18th, he was in front of the NDK again. Were you on it? Well, you weren't. That's why we want the resignation because you weren't here. Not to mention the whole thesis, the lies you've heard. What lies have you heard from me? What did I lie about everything I've said so far? Not only have I not lied, I have told you things that, unfortunately, you are currently trying to blurt. Exactly, and that's what I'm done with.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u83	The weather, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u84	That's actually what the problem is that you're not solving problems, you're smearing them again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Next line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. I was just looking to see if there was another parliamentary group to alternate the lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you're throwing money at us here, how much you've done for people with disabilities. But I, without watering things down, would just like a few specific questions for you to answer in my backpack. First, tell me why in the eighth year of the management of GERB you already have some vision for people with disabilities? Why didn't you go out to the protest of the disabled people, neither the first nor the second, and you didn't accept them in Parliament to tell them how much money you spent on them and how much you did for them? Why didn't you explain to these people why you didn't let them into the National Assembly and say you apologized with half your mouth? You should have accepted them, told them how much you've done and they should have seen this and thanked you for it. Answer these questions, Mrs. Angelova. Perhaps you will also answer the question: why, after so much you have done, Prime Minister Borisov shed tears and said that for these people something should be done for them, not until the eighth year of its rule. To quote you here Krasimira, who is leaving the country because so much you have done for her that she is going to treat her child in another country, and who says: first, this crisis PR has come a little too much for me, and I would personally ask the Prime Minister to apologize to me personally and in my face to the parents, to the mothers of children with disabilities, that he has allowed such condescending treatment to me, and in my face and to the mothers he talks about there for a procession-protest. Not everything is money, honourable colleagues from GERB! It takes a little attitude. People with disabilities are right when they write on their T-shirts: The system kills us! Don't kill them! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u88	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I am taking a line to say something that you will probably be embarrassed to say about the questions that have been made at your request. I ask you, in response to your speech, in the back, to highlight that as soon as it was found in the Chamber that there was such an event, you were with Mr. Tsvetanov and you went out with Mr. Tsvetanov, and just at the entrance happened the debate in question regarding admission. Please also explain to the colleagues of the BSP parliamentary group to read the Rules, because we were at the door commenting on what basis, exactly what access is. Please, I have no way of developing such a thesis, I'm not speaking. But because it is discussed in both your motives and in your speech, I definitely want to make it clear that of the three norms where we have access to participation of citizens or NGOs, they are either in a committee meeting, with the permission of the chairman of the committee, or above on the balcony, with a decision of the National Assembly. Such a form of Rules that you think there is a meeting with voters, with a protest inscription, something that is regulated by the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Marriages [[noise and lines]] , and you well as lawyers should separate both hypotheses, and know that there is a security area around each institution, and correctly acted the head of security. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. That was a third line. Hole, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, we from the parliamentary group of GERB are not afraid, we have not been hiding. On the day in question, when we found out that there was a protest by the mothers of children with disabilities, Mr. Tsvetanov and I went out to meet outside. Then we saw you at the pass. Then you made the scandal and the provocation. It is not true that we are deaf in terms of problems, demands, policies for persons and children with disabilities. Mr. Gokov, I didn't give money from the stands. I didn't throw anyone in the stands. I've presented the facts as they are. Perhaps you are afraid of the fact that during the management of GERB the money for persons and children with disabilities is by times more than when you managed in 2014. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u91	Colleagues, we're interrupting for recess. Half an hour off. In the Club of the National Representative there are students, children and amateurs from the Chitalishte of Ivan Vazov from Berkovitsa. They're going to congratulate us on May 1st. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u92	We continue with the debate on Mr. Hristov's resignation. There was a request for a statement from Mr. Gurnevsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor because in the reasons for the request of the resignation was also mentioned my name in words which I have spoken from this tribune in a declaration of the Political Party GERB. Clearly, very accurately these words were read from that declaration. And today, at this second I personally will not distinguish myself from any of those words. In them was concentrated everything that the opposition and, more precisely, the Bulgarian Socialist Party did for a year from forming the government and this parliament until the spring of this year. It's all written down, it's in the protocols, in the transcripts, in the media. I must remind you that none of you have disproved any of these words anywhere, so they are true and exist. When at the beginning of this year you saw that this did not do any work to the opposition, that everything expressed in those words does no work to the opposition, you now changed the tactics of opposition behavior in the spring and played the thin string for social policy, presenting your party as socially just and only one that could render social peace and justice in this country. Crocodile tears started pouring in. I will list several points, not everything, for example, see how young people during the transition that left the country. Well, how do you expect comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, to be different after a 50-year-old typhoon?! In 1989, instead of red, a white flag of bankruptcy, a devastated state, a bankrupt state, empty shops... You remember the Luka winter, cold, hungry, dark. You remember the 24-hour line in the shops. For a piece of bread the parents and their children stood in their cars in front of shops and halls to wait for the piece of bread for the next day. So how are those kids who froze in those cars on those nights gonna stay here?! At the same time the state went bankrupt, the party rich, privatizations, banks, crises... We've been over this so you won't say I'm repeating myself. A poor country, the Bulgarian communist nomenclature..rich, 95% of the economy and the opportunities for development of this country in its hands. What do you expect? These young ordinary Bulgarians to stay here, to argate you? They have the memory from 100 years ago, before World War I, when their grandfathers went to the West to study, to educate, to return to Bulgaria, to build factories, cities, to build a modern democratic Bulgaria, which in the prewar 1939 was the first in the Balkans in economic condition. That's known. Then came the army of the stinking Cossack boot...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u94	What nonsense are you talking!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u95	Mr. Gurnevsky, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u96	... confiscates everything, kills people, kills the elite and rules for 50 years until the next bankruptcy comes. These young people will return here when they are educated, when they are rich and when they are sure that there is no post-communist nomenclature in Bulgaria that governs the fates of this people. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] It wasn't a coincidence that I said when will the air be fresh in this room?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u97	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u98	When young people return when there is a clean economic climate for development, Madam President. I didn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u99	I agree, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u100	That's right, thank you. To congratulate you on your brilliant speech last night! [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u102	You're talking about the pensions why there wasn't enough money for double, triple, five-year pensions. Well, let me remind the older ones here that when they went bankrupt in 1989, when they opened the pension fund, it was null and void. Where are these pensions coming from that you're campaigning for and lying to people?! You say the wages were low. Well, the communist nomenclature rules 95% of this country's economy! Stop exploiting these people! Take it and raise their salaries! Jean Videnov said, and 20 years ago, that you are a chorbajishers and landowners. He told you that, not me. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Stop eating these people! Stop drinking his blood!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u103	Mrs. Karayancheva, do you see what this man is saying?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u104	There is a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u105	You are using a technical misunderstanding, for which the leading speaker then apologized. We see a lot of different people entering parliament every day. You are witnesses, as are all of us on the balconies and on the coulombs. I wasn't an MP in 2014, but I remember...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u106	Then how do you remember?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u107	I remember from the television station how many people wanted to enter the Bulgarian Parliament, and from all layers. So many people wanted to come in here and take you into account, the government, that you couldn't go outside! Even a white bus couldn't get you out of this square! Do you remember that? Remember. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not going to be too much of a talker, but I'm going to get back to the demagogy that you continued on the thin social string. Yesterday, May 1st, International Labor Day. How do communists celebrate May 1st in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u108	On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u109	Before, in the communist regime, they sing: On foot o pariahs despised, on foot, o slaves of labor, oppressed and humiliated, rise up against the enemy! Twenty-eight years after the communist regime on May 1st 2018, however, left-wing pensioners came to Sofia for a shopping protest. [[Replication from BSP for Bulgaria "Say this to Borisov!."]] To fight, socmillionaires led by comrade Technoimpex. [[Strong noise and shouts in "BSP for Bulgaria", applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u110	That's not at all on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u111	Here's the subject, I'm done with it. This is an answer to what you read about me. Yesterday the party was waving demagogic flags...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u112	On the social issue, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u113	...showing demagogic flags that it's social, fair, fair, but if you dig into her affairs, you'll see she's arrogant, impertinent...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u114	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u115	...and especially thieving! [[(Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria" (Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria") (Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria") (Voices in "BSP for ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u116	In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! It is no coincidence today, Madam President, that Mr. Hristov's resignation is being discussed here. Because for such violations, which you just admitted, such as Mr. Gurnevski, who do not know their place, to introduce the language of hate, to insult, to insult the Bulgarian pensioner, as Mr. Hristov insulted the people with disabilities, so they ask for resignations! And it will become permanent, Mrs. Karayancheva, because you did not interrupt it in time! Don't let that happen in this room again!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u118	Is that for me, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u119	Yes, it's for you! Do not allow the speaker to insult the Bulgarian citizens and the MPs, because the request of the Presidents of the National Assembly will become a trend for such actions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u120	Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Gurnevski is a Member of Parliament, as all MPs in the Chamber of the Forty-fourth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u121	Speak the language of hate!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u122	It represents a certain group of voters and has the right to speak. I've made a few remarks, so you have no reason to blame me. In advance, Mrs. Taskova had signed up before the break. Until Ms. Taskova arrives on the stand, I will inform you that children from the second primary school are on the balcony today. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] , as well as guests from the Cultural Club of the Pensioner of the District of Kamenitsa, Velingrad municipality! [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u123	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u124	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u125	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I listened very carefully to the debate and was provoked to speak. I would like to remind you of a sentence from the opening speech of the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party at the opening of the Forty-fourth National Assembly: That is exactly what I want to tell you today: colleagues, let there be morality in politics, because we remain with the feeling that your work here is just kind of directed. On some occasions, some speeches from 30 years ago are made and should be said at the right time. All cases in the state are solved this way. Today we should not talk about whether this resignation should be sought at all or not by Emil Hristov, as Vice-President. Believe me that people with disabilities did not come before the National Assembly, aiming to turn their problems into another political gum between BSP and GERB mainly, but aimed to be heard, to solve their problems and finally someone to start working for them. Once again, by Volya................Volja........................... you are called for constructiveism, pragmatism. So far, this debate has cost the Bulgarian taxpayer over 100 thousand. lv. and nothing substantial and concrete has been said. Each parliamentary group has expressed its position and the way it will vote. Let's start doing something real and really improving people's lives. I'd like to remind you of one more important thing. For GERB voted 1 million 147 thousand; for BSP voted 955 thousand. These are personalities, colleagues. These are individuals. This isn't just an election table. These people expect solutions from you, especially from the two parliamentary groups, with the greatest support in society, not just words, fairy tales and speeches that cost money. We will support all such decisions. You ask: what will Volya do? Once again we ask you: let's start working and let's really have morality in politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Any lines to Ms. Taskova's statement? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try not to deepen today's scandal, because on one occasion, with one fact, two scandals. The first is on the day and a few days after that for what Mr. Hristov is accused of, and the second scandal today. This is what the BSP has been doing for more than a year now. Every day a scandal, every day an excess, every day a shake of the ruling coalition, the government, the government. This is the stahanov's approach to the issue every day scandal. Here they have nothing to do with problems with the socially weak, with the humiliated, the disadvantaged, the sick, those affected in whatever connection the BSP is trying to attract the debate or once again to hear: we are social, we take care of these people, which, of course, is not true. On the other hand, the spokespersons of GERB tried to draw arguments and to make statements in this sense. What happened in front of the National Assembly's entrance to prevent the parents of children with disabilities is only an occasion, it has nothing to do with today's debate, with the essence of what is happening, with what has been happening for a long time. I must point out that BSP has know-how, they have an old tradition, they have great success in removing people from the National Assembly's leadership. In the distant 1992 C.E., The President of the National Assembly, Mr Savov, was shot down in the first instance. I'm not evaluating him, I'm not trying to talk good or bad about him, but he was president of the Thirty-Sixth National Assembly. Then there was a socialist Milenova who threatened to go out on the stand and slap him. Then Mr. Gerdjikov was shot down. I will not give an assessment to Mr. Gerdjikov, I will not go into details, remind him nicely or badly of his presidency. Third case with Mr. Glauchev. In other words, for nine people's meetings, three presidents were overthrown by the BSP, given that during half of these nine people's meetings, the BSP was a member of the BSP, i.e. the BSP were ruling. Remarkable success! Maybe three out of four or five. Now I want to go to the heart of my speech to talk about the institution, about parliamentaryism. What is done by BSP is destabilization of the institution, it is a blow to parliamentaryism. They were able to do it, and they were doing it right now. And in this National Assembly they are successful. We have to admit it. This National Assembly started with a major deficit. In this National Assembly did not enter as a representative Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva twice President of the Bulgarian Parliament, with great experience, with tradition and incredible authority. I don't want to underestimate the other two chairmen of this National Assembly, Mr. Glauchev and now the President of the National Assembly, but otherwise it would be if Mrs. Tsacheva were here, because in politics, consistency is very important. She's also stability beyond anything else. Here GERB made its political and political mistake, and this is BSP's biggest success in the one-year government Mr. Glauchev was removed from the post, with which BSP made a breakthrough and this breakthrough was expanded further. This breakthrough also led to the current case.. request the resignation of Mr. Hristov. If GERB hadn't caved in, then the United Patriarchs and we were firm in this regard: people at this level in the institutions are not just given up because someone decided that someone, president of the National Assembly or another of the senior leadership, was uncomfortable and bad for him. The President of the National Assembly is the first person in the country! In the National Assembly he is first between equals. I say mundane political truths, but we have to remember these things. Each of the vice-presidents is second between equals. And it's a big guy to be shot, in a political sense, that's what's being done right now. They've got Hack on GERB. Why did Mr. Zablyanov have to be taken off the job? It was a response to what happened to Mr. Glauchev. And now GERB returns again. Another reaction because Mr. Glauchev was shot down. It becomes a tradition and everything goes wrong from here. He's suffering who? Parliamentaryism suffers, the state suffers, we all suffer. On the already 30th year since the beginning of the so-called changes or the so-called democracy in Bulgaria in the current edition nothing new under the sun. We're playing down, up, down, this one, this one, we don't like it. Come on, quick... We see this thing as if it were happening in the European Union, in Western countries, where the hang of someone uncomfortable for something, but apparently this is the time. Let us Bulgarians, because we are ahead as if, in many ways, not to make such mistakes. I will return to the level of BSP and will discuss them slightly for a lesson of both GERB and the government. You can see how constant they are in terms of their superior leadership. I mean, think about it, 30 years ago, when was one of the presidents just shot down?! It's a plenum or a convention. Those things don't happen in BSP. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, here the Communist Party representative tells me: a party with traditions. Just one chairman, and again at a regular congress, Mr. Mikov left with an election. Otherwise, the Presidents of the BSP go for objective reasons, considerations due to going to work at a more important service and level. "Mr. Stanishev went to the European Union, and so on. Regarding the constantness of relations between us, it says that all members of the BSP in their capacity as MPs, that they have ongoing proceedings in the prosecution, are being defended here moment by moment, hour by hour, day by day for year and something in undisputed transgressions, in the case of undisputed reprehensible actions, spoken words, and there is no movement. That's how it's done, gentlemen of GERB! I'll say something else. And your party would not have been so stable and so long in reality if you did not have an extremely responsible and important approach: you are standing behind your President and so should be from the very beginning of GERB until now. Perhaps this should be a model for all your party members. Here GERB members were crucified by the National Assembly. One, two went because of this gullible and too frivolous approach, another for a while survived between our ranks. I finish by saying, "Let's be parliamentarians." That's not an easy thing to do. It shall be studied day by day, hour by hour, year by year, term after term of office. I'm sure that's a high degree in society. Whoever was here passed through here, he's gaining knowledge, parliamentary experience. In this regard, the responsibility is no longer just for the government. Responsibility for parliamentaryism and the level of parliamentaryism is the responsibility of all both the rulers and opposition, and small political play should not be made in order to obtain specific, small, small, today's or tomorrow's benefits.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u129	Thank you, Madam President! I would like, with your cooperation, to return the debate on the subject, respectively, with the agenda adopted three hours ago, and it is the request for Mr. Emil Hristov's resignation. Here we were listening to detailed analysis for May 1st, thank God it was May 1st yesterday. We heard nothing about the April Uprising, and throughout the country are celebrating anniversaries of the captivity Mr. Shopov spoke of, we did not reach only the birds and the bees of Mr. Shopov. In this regard, I ask you: let us go back to the debate and debate the request of resignation and the reasons for it. GERB representatives tried here to say that things were not like this. On the contrary, I was there in the scandal itself, there was a scandal, there was an approach for which, you see, the head of security was guilty. Let us, Mr. Shopov, as you speak, tell him that he is relieved of his duties by entering another job and moving on to his resignation. Why are we discussing Mr. Hristov's resignation?! Because he was Chairman in the absence of Ms. Karayancheva and was responsible for everything in this National Assembly. It was shown, I would say, discrimination against those people who were left to the sun, some of them by help, cannot enter the National Assembly where anyone could enter, who wants, for whatever reason. Mr. Kirilov tried to say, "Look, they can't go in there." Here they are upstairs a pension club from the district of Kamenitsa, half of them with disabilities. Come on, let's say they can't come in. Thank you, Madam President. Be safe! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u130	Second line? I don't see a second line. A hole, Mr. Shopov? I won't. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u131	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u132	One second, let's finish with the colleague, the speech and then the procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, I already gave him my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u133	Okay, what if he doesn't have the right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u134	Please! [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, wait, Mr. Stoinev, just the colleague was on his way. What's so outrage about now? Take it easy! Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Unfortunately, once again, we are witnessing the same thing: a socially important problem is being used to accumulate media PR dividends from the two major political parties. Unfortunately, the only thing we need to talk about here is so little talk so far. I'm expecting to hear about the Technoimpex, then about the fence, and the DPS isn't in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u136	How can we be gone? We're here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u137	I would like to tell you that there is a debate about whether we should have allowed people with disabilities in the Chamber and, as Mr. Kutev said, at least in the National Assembly, thank you. As Mr. Kutev said, at least someone listens to them. Well, these people listen to them all the time, and no one's helping them. I might have succumbed to the hypocrisy of BSP colleagues if six months ago these same people were not before the National Assembly again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u138	We were here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u139	No, you, sir, you weren't with them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u140	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u141	... The only people who invited them to the National Assembly and were able to grant them admission were us from the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] We first met them, then at our meeting with the representatives of people with disabilities...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u142	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u143	...we were announced that they had a proposal for a bill that was three years old, and no political force recognized it. After they left the meeting with us, they met with representatives of the BSP. I do not know what you promised them, but these people announced that because BSP is a greater political party, their chances of hearing their problems this time are greater and they will trust you. In five months, these people are back. Now that we've decided whether or not we were supposed to grant access, what are we going to do? After another five months, we will simply ensure that the then Vice-President or the President of the National Assembly will admit them to the National Assembly and their problems will not be solved. In my opinion, instead of two hours of arguing about absolute nonsense, if we had talked about the problems of people with disabilities, we would have been much more useful to them. Now I would like to turn around because this whole low and disgusting circus is being done only because there are dozens of cameras in the back and because all of you can make enough media PR to the Bulgarian citizens and precisely thanks to these cameras to tell them: Dear Bulgarian citizens with disabilities, these people here will not help you, because it is much better for them after five months to produce some scandal again and to be able to argue in the Chamber for another 2 hours and then go to the media for a week to explain how we should ask for the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I'm ashamed to call myself the People's Representative and, thank God, I'll never be called the Politician. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u144	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Replies to Mr. Hristov's statement? There are no lines. Mr. Stoinev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest you calm your passions. At the invitation of the parliamentary group of BSP there is currently a meeting with people with disabilities. This meeting is taking place at the moment and is attended by Mr. Tsvetanov and Mrs. Daritkova and Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Let them be present when the debate continues. I propose a 30-minute break so that this meeting will end, which is extremely constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u146	Mr. Stoynev, I just want to tell you that we cannot respect your procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] If she says the House, let's put her to the vote, but I have no way of respecting your procedure. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is true that at the request of a parliamentary group there is no way to give a half hour rest after the end of the previous one, but you can give one based on the fact that at the moment the presidents of the parliamentary groups of BSP and GERB plus teams of their MPs are talking to the people, which is why we want this resignation. It seems to me that it is really wise to give this time off, and when this meeting is over, let's get on with the debate. We're not gonna lose anything out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u148	In violation of the regulations, I'm giving you 15 minutes off. I just don't know if the coworkers are going to withdraw the resignation request. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u149	Colleagues, we're moving on. Since I broke the rules and gave you an unauthorized rest, I hope you don't want my resignation, Mr. Stoinev?! We are continuing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Christov. [[Noise and lines. A large number of MPs continue to enter the Chamber.]] The Quaestors, please urge colleagues to take their seats more quickly. It's been 15 minutes. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall quickly. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u150	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hristov, Dear Mrs. Daritkova, Dear Mrs. Angelova and Dear Mrs. Tsvetanov, we were down in the Mirror Hall and I hope that what you heard will at least move you a little bit, make you feel a little bit. Unfortunately, I seriously doubt that. So I'm going to tell you some truths, and they're what you heard downstairs. First of all, people with disabilities are not guilty of being born or having acquired disability, they are not guilty of being born in Bulgaria. Secondly, you want or do not want, these people are part of the Bulgarian society. Thirdly, under the pious motive that you want to clear the fake disabled, you will also take the few remaining funds from these people. I'd like to compare this thing to socio genocide. By the way, dictatorships act much more tolerantly to these people than you do, or remove them quickly and painlessly, or provide them with an exotic minimum for a normal life, but in no case are these people left to slow and painful destruction. Fourth, stop lying that there are one million disability pensions in Bulgaria. If you open the NSI website, there you will see that the figure is actually half. That you define 30 leva. as a second pension, is quite funny and is not the behavior of real statesmen to say that 30 leva. is a sum! What about the amount of social integration? Do you know how much a disabled person gets for social integration? Thirty leva! That's the same amount! Fifth, since you're sharpening the social key again, I'm going to repeat that you want to limit these people's funds to a minimum. There was a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov that they were going to index pensions after this thing happened. In that case, you oppose people with disabilities and turn them against pensioners. Sixth, you couldn't come up with anything smarter than a performance assessment. Who are you to say if I can work one thing or not? Did you know I can put together a children's desk? But they wouldn't tell me I could be a carpenter. Seventhly, in normal countries, what you call "pension" is social financial compensation for human damage. With this money, these people don't make a living, they don't have shelter, this money is compensation, as long as you have a pension here. Eighth, did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we actually produce ourselves very quality and complete disabled with road accidents? I'm not gonna talk about the road infrastructure, the old cars, the bought driver's licenses. We make ourselves disabled. I'm not saying "disabled people" because we removed the word "invalids," but you make them disabled, you don't make them disabled people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u151	Which ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u152	You're the one who's in charge! It's you. [[Laughter, cheering, cheering, cheering, GERB, single applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ninth, I am absolutely convinced that reform must be made! Mr. Tsvetanov, Mr. Hristov, Mrs. Daritkova, Mrs. Angelova, you were downstairs in the hall, these people have very clear and precise demands. They repeated them to you again. Mrs. Angelova spoke about the money, how much money you gave to people with disabilities. It is not about money at all, it is about reform and the desire to debate in society between people with disabilities and you. To be seen at the border, not on a political horizon, on a mandate. I'll end up like this: don't worry about people with disabilities. They are the most suffering, the most miserable and the most frightened group of Bulgarian society. They will not be able to counteract you in any way, because in the end you are not afraid of lame, lame and crippled. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u154	Colleague Hristov, this is all first, second, third, fourth and fifth, is true, all true, but all this needs money. Where's the money? Money, as everyone knows, is in the pockets of super rich people. You don't have to smile. Now I'm gonna tell you something that's gonna freeze your smile. The money is in the pockets of the super rich people in Bulgaria and no one wants to take it from there! During the three coalition, led by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the flat tax was introduced, you introduced the flat tax, which filled the pockets of oligarchy and therefore there is no money in the budget now. Why didn't you cancel?! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Who was in charge then? What are you laughing at? You ruled, you introduced this outlaw tax, an antisocial tax system with which you robbed the people with which you filled the pockets of oligarchy! Where does the money come from, ma'am, that you're smiling at me?! Where does the money come from in Rumen's pockets or Georgi Gergov's? Where did the money come from? Again from this vicious tax system and everyone else's. Then why didn't you cancel it? You brought her in to fill their pockets and now there's no money in the budget for what you're talking about. And there's nothing funny about it, because what I'm telling you is the truth! And you're not a social party, you're a social liberal party. And you are not defending the interests of the people of employment, but of all kinds of things, look at them there - green, red, migrants and so on, and so on, your entire socialist group in the European Parliament is doing this, but not the main one! You're not socialists, you're not, and you're not! [[Applause from GERB and OP. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u155	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Dr. Daritkova, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u156	Dear Mr. Christov! [[Executing noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u157	Why didn't you cancel the flat tax?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u158	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u159	I understand your emotion. I'm a doctor before I became a politician! And I'm gonna be a doctor, and I've always tried to show empathy and understanding. I don't find the problems of people with disabilities now. I've worked personally and with the opportunities I've had as a doctor and as a politician to solve one problem or another, because the doctor sees the eyes of his patients, he thinks with images, he knows the problems of the people he tries to help. I believe that here in the context of the conversation we are having, with Mr. Hristov's request for resignation, you are accusing us of lack of human treatment, accusing us of lack of empathy, accusing us of not wanting to have a dialogue with people with disabilities. I strongly object and do not accept such accusations. Have we always been available? Yes, we are responsible for not being able to solve all problems. We see, unfortunately, that there is no single opinion among the disabled. Even your points listed here are mutually contrary. Today, the people with disabilities that we met thanks to your activity said that money is enough, but it is being spent inefficiently. They said it was a bad organization. [[Noise and lines.]] They said they thought the Telks should be shut down. At the same time, we hear statements that money is insufficient. All these different views are the subject of our desire to achieve hearing and consensus before making specific decisions. Yes, quick political decisions must be made. We've committed ourselves to this today. However, we must achieve such a maximum public consensus that there will be no more dissatisfied and protesting on one subject or another. We've made such a commitment, believe us! But again, you can't blame us for being soulless and inhuman. On the contrary, we look problems in the eye and look for specific solutions. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u160	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u161	Mrs. Daritkova, where did you see the attitude? Why did you withdraw your notorious reform? Because it would limit the percentage of the underlying disease from which the amounts automatically fall. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why? Because that's how you want a genocide on people with disabilities. It's genocide on people with disabilities. I'll give you an example of how inefficient you spend your money. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]] Madam President, when I speak, I think you should make a comment to your colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u162	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u163	Did you know that you give 50 million a year for aid? Do you know that? It's a subject I conceived a long time ago. And did you know that with 10 million you will build a factory in Bulgaria and you will make your support funds, and in 10 years you will save 480 Do you know that? You don't know that! That's how you walk the money normally. Once you pour money into an unreformed system, no matter how much money you pour, they will never be enough. So: yes, you are soulless! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u164	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When I talk about it, I get very excited. It's not a subject that's foreign to me outside of me. I always listen to what other people say. More than a year ago, a politician who is not yet burdened with the vices of the system recalled a well-known European truth. It states that the degree of civilization of a society is measured not by providing disabled people with benefits, not by giving them money, but by creating such conditions that these people feel full citizens of their society. Today, the meeting dealt with its worthy work and the unfolding of its talent. A week ago, however, people with disabilities and their families protested with T-shirts that yelled: The system kills! Of course, it's Deputy President Emil Hristov's fault. I share with all of you, honourable Members, because I know perfectly well that people with disabilities and their families expect nothing more from society than to be equal. They want to be equal. They don't want handouts, although with pain they bite lips every day, every day of their existence called survival. They have listened to promises of individual approach and social integration. Excuse me here, the specialists who think social integration is pointless tautology. What integration of disabled people if they do not allow them to enter where the rules of this integration are made? What integration when they don't even hear them? And they're on the street with justice. The system is killing us. It is not only in their eyes that Parliament is afraid of this truth. This truth has not spared a man with a worthy professional career as a military commander and a local self-governor. When you give yourself to her, the system kills, Mr. Vice-President Hristov. I personally signed the request for your release with the belief that on April 18th you became the main expressor of a so far desperate policy towards disabled people and their families. A policy that cannot answer the question of one of the mothers: When I leave this world, my daughter will pay her electricity, bread and bills with BGN 144. Retirement?............................................... I believe that the treatment of people with disabilities of every member of our society, let alone being a politician and a ruler, should go through the heart, something that no one here wants to admit. And I believe that this is a European understanding. This is precisely the measure of civilization and humanity. And what's more, it's a guarantee that the system doesn't kill us. However, this can hardly be understood by politicians and rulers who trust security to read the messages broadcast by society. I repeat, the demands of civil society cannot be relied on by guards. Therefore, the request for the release of Vice-President Hristov is justly "in order to survive Bulgaria and not to complete it the system of government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I won't. You're welcome, ma'am. Let's just see the line procedure. We don't have any lines. All right, and you'll get the floor, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u167	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to read to you what we are actually looking at today: Project for a decision for the release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Marinov Hristov. When I asked you earlier about constructiveism, the debate was worth over 100,000. lv. the Bulgarian taxpayer is currently worth more than 400 thousand. Madam President, you have no way of knowing who will say what of this tribune, but please interrupt speeches of the kind of parables and any lyrical deviations that are not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Professor Stanilov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] We'll continue the debate. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. The word wants Mr. Emil Hristov here, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the meeting with the people in the Hall, it is difficult to talk about. Unfortunately, however, truths must be said, and since we have continued for two weeks, including just to engage society with an untruth, I am not telling a lie, because it can be associated with something else, I am telling the truth. I tried to say a few words about the truth right after this unfortunate case. Unfortunately, so far, we have continued to hear untruths. I made a reference as I was interested in how it has been handled since the time of President Georgi Pirinski, President Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman Mihail Mikov. This is not the only case in which people wanted to enter the National Assembly building and are limited in their access by security. Some of them have complied with the security requirements, they have been brought into the form that security recommends, and they have entered. Others stayed outside and then the MPs met with them. What, though, is common? What's common in this case is that almost everyone has reckoned. And one more thing, there's no chairman so far who's called off a security decision. Something you expected and demanded of me. In fact, what we have heard today repeatedly and in the motives of two places it is written that Bulgarian citizens with disabilities have been waiting for more than an hour outside the parliament building to be admitted. I'm not arguing, so you've been hiding from me for over an hour that there are citizens who are stopped by security. Because even Mr. Kutev said that he had informed me while I was holding the hearing. Well, then how did the security guard carry out my orders when I heard from Mr. Kutev an hour and more even after these people were stopped?! Isn't that right, Mr. Kutev? Yes, it is. Okay, why wasn't I informed when you all knew these people were stopped by security? What were you aiming for? What were you looking for? Why did you use them and make them stay there? However, the truth may be a little different, colleagues. At 13:35, five people were admitted into the National Assembly building. At 13:37 p.m., they meet with Mr. Kutev and are stopped by security because the guards are following Internal Order rules that exist not since yesterday. The last guards he worked on were confirmed by Mr. Mikov, and they were developed by some other rules before him. And despite my desire in some way to speak to the head of security, because the chair of parliament has the right to change the decision of the head of security, even though no one has done so far, I have not been given this opportunity to do so intentionally or not, that is what you already know. [[Noise and lines.]] At 13.43 p.m. If... if this is where it's happening, I'm confused. At 13.43 we were talking to Mr. Kutev when he told me there were people out there. Okay, were these people stopped by security for an hour or stopped at 13.43 minutes? What's true, colleagues? What's the truth about these things?! Who stopped them and gave them on my orders? You've abused, but you've abused these very people, which we shouldn't have done. Today we have seen that we can talk to them and we can look for a solution together with you. So you just shouldn't have used this case for political purposes. This case just had to be dealt with differently, maybe the way we're gonna solve it tomorrow. The trouble with this case is that as soon as security stops and obstructs access Mrs. Ninova has been notified, who refuses to engage in the case. [[Reply.]] Yes, Mrs. Ninova, you knew. Mr. Stoinev also knew that there were people stopped by the guards and refused to engage. You, Mr. Stoinev, were engaged later when I should have asked for my resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u170	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place.]] That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u171	Okay, this thing is recorded. These are the facts, gentlemen, these are the facts. They can be checked, but they cannot be surrounded and changed. The facts with which you used these people to make your own policy, and I worry that tomorrow they will be used again to make your own policy. But who is responsible for this use? Who's responsible? Who fooled them? Who leaked that the security guard was acting on the chairman's orders, in this case, me? And today we heard it from this tribune that I almost ordered it, and it became clear from your statements that I learned a lot after the guards stopped people. Is that how you make politics?! So, you write motives without checking the facts. Eighty people, colleagues, signed under these motives. Can anyone tell me what the truth is? Can anyone tell if they really waited an hour after they were stopped, or do we trust the video footage?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u172	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place.]] Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u173	We've already heard you, Mr. Gokov. Dear MPs from BSP, I think someone should apologize after all. [[Noise and shouts: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not to me. I have forgiven you. Someone should apologize to the people you used. Someone has to apologize! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] And to all those Bulgarians you fooled to use this particular case for party purposes. Apologize, colleagues, to make you feel better!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] A line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u175	Dear Mr. Hristov, I am amazed by what I have heard is absolutely outrageous. You've just been to a meeting of disabled people, and you've been watching a lot of good. Aren't you ashamed?! You have no right to take this place after this speech. Before that, I wasn't sure. Now I'm sure. It's policemanship in a tough way. [[Shouting from GERB.]] It's not right for someone in power to broadcast it. None of the things you said were true or that we didn't want to. There's a line. I'm on my way to security. Security won't let them in. If he won't let them go, I'll call the head of security. Here comes the head of security, says why he won't let them go again. If they are not released by the head of security, I come to the President of the National Assembly, in this case Mrs. Karayancheva. She's gone. I'm circling all the halls, all the rooms where there are vice-presidents, there's not a single one, because the only one who was there had taken it down before, and you're the one who stayed. You stay, I come to you, I tell you what the problem is. Here at the top of the records it may appear that I am telling you excuse me. I am telling you that this is a mistake after I've explained to you what's going on. And you're going out right now and telling me that I did it on purpose. What did I do on purpose?! Why didn't you say so today, you had a meeting with them? Why didn't you give that speech downstairs in front of them?! For the same reason Angelova then gave us her speech in front of them. Her speech didn't go to them, your speech didn't go to them, it stays here. Why? This is absolutely outrageous, absolutely outrageous! And I apologize, but did we politicize... Why would I apologize to you? [[Reply.]] You don't have to apologize because I don't know who you are, so come on over here so I can replicate you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] The result of all this work, Mr. Christov, is that I had doubts...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u176	Mr. Kutev, behave yourselves!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u177	...if we should ask for your resignation before that I don't now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u178	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u179	Now I don't have anything else, but because of the way you react, because it shows total bankruptcy as a person you have. I apologize for having to say this. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Wait, Mr. Hristov, there was a line, Mr. Shopov. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u181	I have just tried to speak to you politically, to speak to you well, to try to smooth out contradictions in this highest place in Bulgaria, called the Bulgarian National Assembly, to remind you of events, to become more parliamentarians. It is really scandalous by what I listen to as a position and, as BSP's goal has already been achieved today, there has been a scandal. [[Heckling]] My question to Mr. Hristov is: Mr. Hristov, and why did you apologize? That's what I'm wondering. You just laid out a chronology of the event where I do not see any of your wrongdoing, error, problem in your behavior. Apologizes to whoever's guilty, who made a mistake. And you see, Mr. Christov, you admit a mistake, but they go on! They don't understand excuses, obviously! For them, an apology is a weakness, as in many other cases. That's why I'm sharper to you now, gentlemen than BSP. If we continue to admit mistakes and, Mr. Tsvetanov, to give out people who we talked about earlier, which happened several times this last year, there will be a request for further resignations and this will escalate. Perhaps very soon there will also be a request for the resignation of our now presiding National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because if this request for resignation was a request for resignation of Mr. Hristov, then very soon there was another resignation that succeeded, which they liked BSP very much. As I told you earlier, it was the greatest success.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u182	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u183	And it wasn't a coincidence that the DPS gave themselves voices for Mr. Yavor Notev's resignation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u184	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u185	...a model for a lawyer, a model for a parliamentarians with his morals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u186	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u187	Why? Because he visited Russia. Can you get your... [[People's representative Pavel Shopov speaks away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u188	Mr. Shopov, time's up, time's up, two minutes! If you want, I'll give you a statement later. Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Third line, please, Mr. Christov. [[National Representative Stanislav Stanilov wants a personal explanation.]] Personal explanation? I'll give it to you. Here's a third line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u189	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable people with disabilities, children with disabilities, honourable parents, grandparents of children with disabilities... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u190	Mr. Hristov, the line must be to Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u191	Yeah, I know. Okay. Dear Mr. Hristov, I apologize for our system killing us! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u192	Mr. Hristov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest we get this over with... It's very unpleasant all of this!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u194	On the microphones, Mr. Christov, a little higher!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u195	Mr. Kutev, we really talked. If you had been well-intentioned, you would have asked for a few minutes to go and talk and resolve the matter with you together, there, on the spot. Yes, because immediately after you left, Mr. Tsvetanov, Mrs. Angelova called the people, but you've already explained to them that I don't allow them. Why weren't you well-intentioned? You just had to wait until we closed the meeting, shut it down, and meet everyone together with these people, just like we did today. I'm gonna stop this thing, but I hope we don't make such ugly scenes anymore. Who did I apologize to, Mr. Shopov? I apologized because we showed it to the Bulgarian people, and then I said it from here, from this tribune to the Bulgarian people, not only to these people, we all showed an ugly face to the Bulgarian politicians, not to you, all of us together, twisting things, twisting them, using them in an unworthy way! In such a situation, I think that each of us should be able to say: yes, we were wrong, I was wrong, and apologize. And if this happens again tomorrow, let's all apologize together, let's not attack, let's extend our hand to these people, and to everyone like them, not use them unworthy! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A personal explanation of Professor Stanilov and you. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] Okay. Here you go, Mr. Kutev, then Professor Stanilov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u197	Dear Madam President... [[Noise and lines.]] He wasn't the first because I didn't mention him. Mr. Stanilov wasn't mentioned by me. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] There are rules, Mr. Kirilov. You, I suppose, know the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u198	I'll give him a personal explanation. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u199	In my personal explanation, once again, Mr. Hristov, I really didn't see it coming. [[Noise and lines.]] No, it's not a line, it's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u200	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u201	I didn't expect it to be my fault that I told you what I had to. I did the right thing, the right thing, the best thing to do. No one in the BSP had any intention of making a scandal at the time. The only wish we had was to do what you did today. Only then you didn't do what you did today because there was no scandal. Then neither Mr. Tsvetanov nor you were in that room. And that was the problem. I've been saying the same thing for the past two weeks: you were the people who had to call them and see them. You didn't do it, we did it with the only idea in any way to preserve the face of the National Assembly so that there would be some MPs who saw them. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] When you were known for it, you instead of... [[Noise and lines.]] You didn't even let them in. You didn't let them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u202	Why didn't you wait? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u203	After a detailed explanation of the result, gentlemen of GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u204	The personal explanation! What's the personal explanation, Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u205	I personally explain that they are once again trying to distort my actions and that I have done my best to listen to these people, to see what they want and what measures we will take, that we have shown today that this can happen, but today it has only happened for one reason and it is that we have actually raised a scandal. [[Noise and lines.]] As a result of the scandal, you became socially sensitive. Without this scandal, you wouldn't have done anything a year ago, not two weeks ago, not today, if it hadn't been for this scandal. So I'm proud that I wanted your resignation because it has led to at least a little stir in the majority's parliamentary brains. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u206	Professor Stanilov, come in for a personal explanation. Then, Mr. Kirilov, I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u207	I recognized myself as a personal explanation from... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u208	Mr. Stanilov will explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u209	I recognized a personal explanation in Anton Kutev's scream against me, that no one knew me and who I was when I stood there, and from here he cried this out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u210	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u211	Colleague Kutev, because we've known each other a long time, because you and I know each other both in person and in fairy tales a long time ago, to remind you of who I am. I am the one who voted against the introduction of the flat tax and spoke out of the stands. I am the one who voted against the privatisation of the Bulgarian Black Sea Fleet and spoke out of the stands, and the whole party voted against. I am the one who tells you that you, since you betrayed your leader, Jean Videnov, are not a socialist party, but are socialist traitors to the interests of the working people... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u212	Professor Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u213	...of the interests of the people of labor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u214	Please, how are you personally affected by the speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u215	And with the oligarchy in your ranks you will not lie to anyone! You won't lie to anyone, because, as Spas reminded you, although all that he said didn't have much effect, so Spas told you that what did Jean Videnov call you? You punks, you punks!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u216	Professor Stanilov, please, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u217	So are the Gergovs and the Rumen Shepherds!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u218	Please, Professor Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u219	And I wonder about those people standing in your ranks who are really social people who are left-handed, what they are doing there, in the party of the blue cuckoo who wants to lay down...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u220	Mr. Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u221	...eggs in the red nest? That's what I'm asking, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u222	Mr. Stanilov, please! [[Applause from GERB.]] Please! The way you're holding Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I ask you, by taking the floor, to speak on the ground, because they are beginning procedures in the manner of conduct and I will interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u223	Madam President, my procedure in the manner of conduct is directed at you. You don't lead the debate evenly! You give without justification the word for personal explanations and procedures. As a result of this inequality, Madam President, much of the speakers have already gone astray. They say we've argued equally with the BSP. Please, as chairman, can you clarify how many speeches we have? We have two speeches: one that is Angelova's and the other that was the statement of the Vice-President whose resignation you want. This way... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u224	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u225	In this way, Madam President, you give the opportunity to manipulate both Parliament and the audience! From two lies, colleagues want to produce truth and succeed. Colleagues from Volja are deluded that we even speak and that we are opposed and we are not opposed! You've even challenged the facts that are on video, and you're talking about people being held for an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u226	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev, please come to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u227	All to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u228	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u229	At least I have two reasons. The first of them, of course, is that in the Rules of Procedure, which you as a majority have adopted, it is explicitly stated that the personal explanation is given if the MP is mentioned personally and by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u230	I gave you the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u231	By the way, I'm not talking about my personal explanation... Okay, am I talking now, or are you talking? You have no right to interrupt me in the back while I'm talking. [[Noise and lines.]] Unless I did what Mr. Stanilov did, because then you had to interrupt him. Not me, but him. He's the one you should've taken his word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u232	I interrupted Mr. Stanilov. If you were observant, you'd see.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u233	And now about how to give a personal explanation. A personal explanation is given when it is personally and individually affected. When we adopted the Rules of the National Assembly, I was one of the people, and our group, which we wanted to write:.................................. Only you didn't accept it. With your insistence, there was a personal and roll call. Mr. Stanilov was not mentioned personally or individually. By the way, I meant a completely different person from theirs, but they obviously all hear that they're nameless, they recognize each other, and I apologize for that. I didn't mean quite all the people in this part of the room, just some, but you have no right to use this procedure because you violate the Rules. And that's unacceptable! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u234	This is the second time I've broken the Rules today because I've given 15 minutes of rest in violation of the Rules. Who wants the word more? Mr. Tsvetanov, for a statement? [[Noise and lines.]] Professor Stanilov, you want the floor or what? [[Noise and lines.]] In a little while, I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests, we understand you're from Velingrad. We congratulate you, but we apologize for what you have witnessed today as the conduct of MPs! Colleagues, we've lost valuable parliamentary time. We are having an absolutely unnecessary debate about Emil Hristov's resignation. We of GERB's parliamentary group stand firmly behind Emil Hristov and will not allow such aggression, such attempts to divide or similar attempts at hatred, which you present, colleagues from BSP, daily in the Bulgarian Parliament or in society. Colleagues, reduce this hatred, reduce this opposition! There is nothing you, Parliament or MPs gain, and even less the people who have come as a visiting group from Velingrad to watch the MPs work. Can you imagine what these people are going to feel like now that they're going home to their hometowns? They are probably interested at the moment whether the politicians in Bulgaria will actually allow tungsten in Velingrad. We say no, we won't allow it. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what they care about. [[Applause from GERB.]] And the way you did this whole scenario here a week ago and the reason to ask for Emil Hristov's resignation, believe me, it doesn't make any sense or bring you any dividend. That doesn't bring you any dividend! Today, within an hour, we spoke with people with disabilities. And you have seen how constructive we were and we are trying really to have a dialogue, because we know that dialogue can solve people's problems, and not transfer ourselves: those who managed so much, those who ruled less, those who did nothing, those who want to destroy and the system to kill. Of course, from all that we have witnessed in these years, both communism and transition, indeed anyone can make such a conclusion that the system has killed. But let us, as MPs, do our best to have a real dialogue. And what we have done as a proposal at this meeting is to be able, within these ten days, to have representatives from each parliamentary group with their experts, I repeat, experts, to participate in this debate. We have spoken with Minister Petkov also open, and he is in constant contact with these people and are having talks so that we can actually see where we can make legislative changes, see where we can find additional financial resources. But this happens with economics, this happens with policies, and it doesn't happen with opposition and it doesn't happen with hate. Just, please, colleagues of BSP, understand, we are obliged to respond to you in the way you behave, but we do not want to enter into this debate because we know that this is not the power of GERB and the power of the parliamentary majority together with the United Patriarchs and, of course, these political forces that support the good policies for Bulgaria. Because here I can also say about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and about the Voljya who also support policies that are in the interest of the state. You've been supportive, too, but you're always looking for confrontation. Please, let's reduce this confrontation, because it won't lead to any result. Thank you and I can only state clearly: the parliamentary group of GERB will support Emil Hristov and we will not allow such a scenario, a similar plot that BSP drew for them to come true. It won't come true because it's not objective and it's not appropriate! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The request of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Hristov's resignation is a basic solution. There is neither personal attitude nor the desire of the BSP to organize another parliamentary scandal. We don't want to! We don't have time, nor do people want to hear explanations about regulations, access regime and all the details you're trying to wash your hands with, and even with the head of security, that he's almost guilty of this scandal that happened here. There are three, I emphasize, principled reasons. Firstly, the National Assembly is the people, not the MPs, not the administration, including the people with disabilities. That's why it's called the People's House. What are we turning him into? In a closed institution, in an elitist place, we hide behind some rules. It's insulting, and that's unacceptable. We can't stay in this building like bureaucrats in a office. This isn't a office. Your behavior is a blow to parliamentaryism. Secondly, behavior towards people with disabilities. The fact that they are not admitted here speaks only of one "they are not admitted in the country as a whole. Their problems have not been resolved, and you have felt it today, you have heard it from them, and this behavior that you continue to demonstrate here in plenary is completely unacceptable, especially from those people who were downstairs and have heard what their problems are. Thirdly, with the request of this resignation, we would like to say again to GERB: you are wrong! You make mistakes all the time, mistakes that cost too much to people with disabilities, pensioners, mothers, oncological ones. Should I list all those affected by a lack of policy, real and long-term? Colleagues from GERB, you are practically in isolation. You've come so far as to close your own doors. You are protected by the Bulgarian citizens and you are protected from the people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are running away from the problems of Bulgarian citizens. And when a government doesn't solve people's problems, what's the point of it? Colleague Hristov, you, as a former member of the Bulgarian People's Army, must be a man of honor. You heard their people today and their problems. You should have actually apologized for being in the wrong place at the wrong time and made the wrong decision. You owe that answer! You must resign yourself, not go to the vote! Finally, remember: in the House of Parliament we are the same people as those outside. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u238	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. [[The national representatives of the DPS shall leave the plenary.]] I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION on the release of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Emil Marinov Hristov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Emil Marinov Hristov as Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. They voted 189 MPs: for 71, against 118, without abstention. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, received on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly a proposal to hold a hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on progress on the priority road projects. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include the hearing as point 2 of the National Assembly's Programme on 3 May 2018. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 143, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a procedure for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-82, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of Members of Parliament on 30 November 2017, to the maximum period provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-02.u240	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Please vote on the procedure so done. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are about to review the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Agency "National Security" but since there are a lot of reading reports, we will continue tomorrow. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
