ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u1	I'm opening the meeting. [[Applause and excitement in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are you having a good time? Are you having a good time? [[Arrival in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Noise and lines by GERB. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Program for the work of the National Assembly for 7 November 2018: Proposal of the parliamentary groups by the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until 18.00 On 1 November 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 November 2018 to 31 November 2018 for the meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday 8 November 2018 pursuant to a decision of the National Assembly of 1 November 2018. 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The first vote was adopted on 18 October 2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. First vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. 4. A bill ratifying the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. 5. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov on 29 October 2018. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018. 8. Parliamentary control. We are voting on the proposal for a draft programme. Vote 169 MPs: 143, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 31 October 2018 to 6 November 2018: - A bill to supplement the Consumer Protection Act. Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs are importing. The leading committee is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs. The lead committee shall be the Defence Committee; - A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through (and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Defence Committee. Distributed to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is allocated to: the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Defence Committee; - A bill to ratify the updated General Agreement establishing a framework and management and subject to conditions for the mechanism for refugees in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Foreign Policy. It is allocated to: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-ROADING. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The first vote was adopted on 18 October 2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u2	Member of the Commission. - Mr. Ivanov, Deputy Minister Velkova, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Customs and Mr. Ivanov. Please let us now enter the hall and: Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance; Mrs. Tanya Nakova, Head of the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance; and Mr. Georgi Dimitrov, Head of the Department of Active Activity and Economist at the Office of Customs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u3	Please vote on the so-called tolerance procedure. Vote 172 MPs: 157 against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u4	We continue with § 35 by importer. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov, supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov and Stanislav Stanilov, which the Commission does not support, namely in § 35, art. 59 a new Paragraph 6 is created: For motor vehicles with a permissible mass of up to 3,5 tonnes produced or additionally fitted gas, the tax shall be paid with a 50 per cent reduction. There is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Rumen Gechev and Tasco Ermenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, namely: The following amendments shall be made in § 35: (a) point 1 shall be deleted. b) points 2 and 3 become points 1 and 2 respectively. (c) point 4 shall be deleted. (d) point 5 shall be deleted. (e) point 6 shall be deleted. f) points 7 "9" become points 3 "5" respectively. There is a proposal from the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal. 5. The Commission shall support the proposal in principle for paragraphs 17 and 19 and shall support the proposal in the rest. I will read the proposal, which is not supported, namely: Point 5 to fall. There is a proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Yordan Apostolov and Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it in the rest. I will read the unsupported in the rest, namely: "2." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5, b. ............................................................................... 1 the words "indoor combustion' shall be added after the word "the engine'. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5, b. ................................................ 55, in the new para. 14th sentence 1 after the word supplied in an initial or periodic annual technical examination, where a measurement has been carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 32 for periodic tests to verify the technical performance of road vehicles and the text so far until the end of the sentence is deleted. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6, b. ................................................ 59, para. 5th sentence 1 after the word supplied in an initial or periodic annual technical examination, where a measurement has been carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 32 for periodic tests to verify the technical performance of road vehicles and the text so far until the end of the sentence shall be deleted. There is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. We have an additional report under § 35. There is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission also supports this proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 the words "buildings and land estates" shall be replaced by "land properties," buildings and private buildings in buildings. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 and 2 after the words 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "or other property acquired' shall be replaced by "buildings and buildings which are not subject to entry into service under the Law on the Construction of the Area' and the words "the holder of restricted property law' shall be deleted; (b) New para. are created. 2 and 3: No annual tax return shall be filed for newly built buildings subject to entry into service under the Law on Construction on the territory. The necessary data to determine the tax on newly built buildings and/or individual sites in them shall be provided to the employees under art. 4, para. 1 by the contracting authority at the construction site after completion of the building in rough construction according to a model defined by the Minister of Finance. (3) No tax returns shall be filed for annual tax on property and limited property rights acquired by way of retribution or grant under Section 3 of this Chapter. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: For newly built or otherwise acquired property or restricted property rights within the term of para. 1 undertakings shall submit information on the reporting value and other circumstances relevant for the determination of the tax. (d) the current para. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it, the words "In case of a change of one' shall be replaced by "In case of a change of use and in case of a change of use of an existing building or of an independent site in a building, as well as in case of a change of another'. (e) the current para. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it is created sentence two: "In case there is no tax return under para. 1 of the heirs or the testaments, after the expiry of the term under art. 32 the employee of art. 4, para. 1 forms an account for the inherited real estate on the basis of the data available in the municipality and in the register of the population. (f) the current para. 5 becomes para. 7. (g) the creation of para. 8. A tax return is not required where the change in circumstances relevant for determining the tax is certified by the municipality in the case of tolerance of the construction works, in the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings or in its capacity as contracting entity under the Law on Construction in the Area. An employee of the municipal administration reflects the changes in the technical characteristics of the property. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "or has begun to use them" shall be deleted; (b) in para. 2 the word "the property' is replaced by "the ownership of the property' or by the establishment of a limited right of use'; (c) the creation of para. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7: The completion of a building or part thereof shall be established by a certificate of entry into service or a permit for use issued under the Law on Construction on the territory, as well as by a certificate under art. 54a, para. 3 of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. (4) The authorities issuing the documents under para. 3 shall provide a copy of them to the municipality's tax office within one week of their issuance. (5) The tax under para. 1 shall also be due in cases where, within two years of the completion of the building in rough construction, respectively..................................................................................................................................................... P.O. Box 76.A. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area, the building has not been put into service or no authorization for use has been granted. (6) The person exercising the construction supervision or the technical supervisor of the fifth category construction shall provide a copy of the consolidated act under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1 of the Law on Construction in the territory of the tax office of the municipality within one week of its establishment. (7) The completion of the building in rough construction shall be established according to the order of art. 181, para. 2 of the Law on Construction of the Area. The circumstances of para. 5 are established by a constitutional act composed of employees of the municipality. The act shall be communicated to the taxable person who may challenge the findings of the act within 7 days of the claim. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 in a sentence first, the information provided under Article 1 shall be added at the end. 15, para. 4, 6 and 7 and art. 51, para. 1.................................................................................. 6. Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. The municipal council shall determine by the ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 the amounts of the tax: 1. for real estate, except for real estate under point 1. 2, within 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand on the tax valuation of the real estate; 2. for residential properties located on the territory of a locality or a local entity included in the List of Resorts in the Republic of Bulgaria and determining their borders, adopted by Council of Ministers Decision No 153 of 24 February 2012, which for the relevant year are not the principal residence of the taxable person, are not leased and are not registered as accommodation within the meaning of the Tourism Act, within the limits as follows: (a) from 5 to 7 per thousand on the tax valuation of the real estate for the properties located in balneological, climatic mountain and climatic seaside resorts of national importance included in the list of items. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) from 4,5 to 6 per thousand on the tax valuation of the real estate for the properties included in the list of items. 2 other than those referred to in point (a) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 words under Art. 14, para. 1 and 4s are deleted. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 is created. 3: If more than one main dwelling has been found to be declared, the reliefs under para. 1 and 2 shall not apply and the tax determined under art. 22 is due in full for each of the dwellings and for the period during which they are both declared as main housing. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1. (b) the creation of para. 2: On the basis of the tax assessment used to determine the tax under para. 1, the employee of the municipal administration shall determine the annual tax due and communicate it to each successor or testament. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 3 words under art. 14, para. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it, the words "the tax paid under this Chapter' shall be replaced by "the taxes paid under this Chapter for the property which is the subject of the transaction or action'; (b) the creation of para. 2: In the case of para. 1 the establishment by the notary of the tax paid on the vehicle subject to the transaction shall be carried out with: 1. verification by automated data exchange with the information exchange system supported by the Ministry of Finance in implementation of art. 5a in the mediation of the information system of the Ministry of Interior, or with 2. provision of a document issued or certified by the municipality, provided that the municipality concerned has not provided continuous automated exchange under point 2. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The municipality shall inform the municipality of the transferred property rights and vehicles within 7 days of the transaction, providing information on the amount of the tax paid under art. 49, para. 2 and the basis on which it is defined. (b) The current para. 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4; (c) the creation of para. 5. Within one month of receipt of the notification under para. 1 The employee in the municipal administration shall determine the annual tax on the transferred, established, modified or terminated property rights on the basis of the tax assessment used to determine the tax under this section and shall notify the taxable persons. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) para. 3, p. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. there are grounds for the application of para. 4a. (b) in para. 4 sentence first after the words............................................................................................... In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 4a (a) 4a (b) (c) the creation of para. 4a and 4b: Within one month of the conclusion of a financial leasing contract, the owners of vehicles granted for use on the basis of a financial leasing contract shall declare to the municipality at the current address, respectively, at the place of the lessor, the vehicles owned by them and shall notify the municipality at their headquarters of the application of para. 3, p. 5. The amount of the tax shall be determined by an employee of the municipal administration at this address, respectively at the seat of the lessor, on the basis of the declaration and shall be communicated to the lessor. The lessor does not owe a tax on the vehicle in the municipality at his seat. In the event of a change to the lessor, the lessor shall, within one month, notify the municipalities at the current address at the headquarters of the previous and current lessor respectively. (4b) When changing the current address, respectively, its registered office in the cases under para. 4a, the lessor shall notify the lessor within one month of the change. The lessor shall, within one month of the notification received by the lessor, declare to the municipalities at the previous address and at the current address at the lessor's seat, the change that has taken place. In cases where the change in this address is within one municipality, the lessor shall not notify the lessor and a declaration of the change being made shall not be submitted by the lessor. (d) in para. 5 after the words "vehicle funds".. or leasing agents................................................................................................... 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For cars with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes, the annual tax shall consist of two components of both property and environmental, and shall be determined by the following formula: DGPS = IMC x EC, where: The GDR shall be the annual vehicle tax for cars and trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes; The IMC is a property component that is defined in the order of t. 1; The EC is an environmental component which is defined in the order of point 1. 2. 1. the property component is determined by the value of the tax depending on the power of the engine, adjusted by a coefficient depending on the year of production of the vehicle, according to the following formula: IMC = SkW x Kgp, where: SkW is the part of the value of the tax depending on the power of the engine, which is determined by the power of the engine and the amount of the tax determined by the municipal council by the ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 within the following limits: a) up to 55 kW including for 1 kW; b) above 55 kW to 74 kW including for 1 kW; c) above 74 kW to 110 kW including for 1 kW; d) more than 110 kW to 150 kW including for 1 kW; e) more than 150 kW to 245 kW including for 1 kW; (f) above 245 kW from 2,10 to 6,30 lv. for 1 kW. Kgp is a correction factor for the year of production of the car in the following dimensions: Number of years of the year of production, including year of production More than 20 years of age Over 15 to 20 years including More than 10 to 15 years including More than 5 to 10 years including Up to 5 years including 2. The ecological component shall be determined by the municipal council depending on the environmental category of the vehicle with the ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 within the following limits: Environmental category No environmental category, with environmental categories supposed to be equal to or greater than the total value of the supposed to be in the same position as in the same way as in the supposed to be equal to or greater than the sum of the following: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss supposed to be equal to or greater than the sum of the following: (b) in para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words "light cars' shall be replaced by "light cars and trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes'; (c) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The Municipal Council shall determine by the ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 the tax on a truck with a technically permissible maximum mass above 3,5 tonnes, but not more than 12 tonnes, amounting to 10 to 30 BGN. for each 750 kg load capacity started. (d) the creation of para. 14: (14) When in the register under art. 54, para. 1 no data are available on the environmental category of the motor vehicle, it is assumed that the vehicle is without an environmental category. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 4 a new sentence is created second: "In cases where a vehicle is declared missing, the registration shall be terminated following a written application by the owner in the relevant unit of the road police at the place of registration of the vehicle and the second sentence to date becomes the third sentence. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is repealed; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: For mopeds and motorcycles with an engine power up to and including 74 kW and corresponding to the environmental category 55, para. 3 taxes. (c) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: For buses, trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, tractors for trailer and tractors with engines corresponding to the environmental category 55, para. 5, 6, 7 and 13 taxes. (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: (5) When in the register under art. 54, para. 1 no data are available on the environmental category of the motor vehicle, it is assumed that the vehicle is without an environmental category. 18. Article 61 is amended as follows: Art. 61. (1) The tax shall be paid in revenue of the budget of the municipality at the permanent address, respectively the seat of the owner and in the cases referred to in art. 54, para. 5 in the municipality's revenue for registration of the vehicle. (2) Alinea 1 shall not apply to vehicles granted for use on the basis of a financial lease contract, in which case the tax shall be paid in revenue of the municipality's budget at the present address, respectively at the seat of the lessor. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) Paragraph 13 is amended as follows: The circumstances relevant to the calculation of the amount of the household waste charge under para. 12, as well as any change thereof, may be established in a professional capacity and/or by submitting a declaration by the persons referred to in art. Art. 64, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 15 in accordance with the template, order and time limit laid down in the regulation under art. 9. (b) Paragraph 14 shall be repealed. 20. In Annex No 2, in art. 8, para. 1: a) the formula in the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: Kh = 1 + kk1 + kk2 (b) point 3 is repealed. 21. In Annex 4 to Chapter 2 of Section VI, point (b) is replaced by the following: 21 is canceled. 22. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...), in § 13, para. 1 of the Final Provisions, the words 23. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...), the following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: (a) In § 16: (aa) in para. 1 the words "for 2020" and "31 January 2020" shall be replaced by "for 2022" and "31 January 2022" respectively; (bb) in para. 2 the words "for 2020' shall be replaced by "For 2022'; (b) Paragraph 17 is amended as follows: § 17. For determining the number of users of the services in the property under art. 62 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for 2022. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria together with the President of the National Statistical Institute: 1. draw up a proposal for inclusion as census sites and the number of users of services in the property in the census of population and housing in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; 2. determine by a joint act the order, manner and duration for the provision, by the National Statistical Institute of the municipality concerned, of data from the census on the number of users of the services in the property. (c) In § 20, the words (d) In § 21, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u5	Statements, coworkers? Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please, from now on, as the Corporate Income Tax Act is being reported, it is obvious that the paragraphs are quite long, please interrupt the rapporteur, especially when it comes to different paragraphs! Two paragraphs have been reported at once, there are proposals that have been adopted, there are proposals that have not been accepted. I understand that it is urgent, but to report... because at second reading is a text paragraph under paragraph..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u7	Paragraph 34, we voted...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u8	Please, when there are proposals on relations that have not been adopted by the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u9	Oh...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u10	Don't yell at me: "Ooh, come out of the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u11	Mr. Popov, I'm going to answer you because the procedure in the way I'm being led is to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u12	Madam President, when there are proposals that are not accepted, interrupt the rapporteur! Let's talk about it! That's how you report it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I don't think you've been following the lyrics. Paragraph 35, which is on the supplementary report, is currently being reported and all the proposals that are not supported are in this § 35. So I have not strayed from the Rules for a moment. Mrs. Stoyanova has read the version of § 35, which becomes § 38. Now you have the opportunity to speak on the unsupported proposals. I'll give Mr. Nenkov a procedure. Mr. Nenkov, there is no procedure. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I regret that BSP's proposals are not supported. I think a very wrong approach here is generally accepted for tax policy. I'm talking about cars. What do I mean? Undoubtedly there is a basis for change, that is the case throughout the civilized world, we all know that. We all know that Bulgaria is threatened to pay sanctions. Bulgaria is condemned. One of the lines of pollution, of course, are the old cars, and with the restrictions in Europe a large volume of old cars will go to Bulgaria and this will become an even bigger problem. But is the approach you choose the right one, and will the solution you propose at least partially solve the problem? If we take one car, which is currently paying 450 leva. tax and is relatively new with Euro-5 standard, maybe if the municipality chooses an appropriate rate, it will decrease by 60 BGN, to 100, and a 20-year-old car with 100 horsepower will pay by 60 BGN. more. Whether in the state of the finances of Bulgarians and car prices this will lead to a big change and will limit the registration of old cars or thus fulfill your policy, because your minister says: "This is an investment in health, that is, you are putting such a problem and such goals here. I don't think so. But what else should be said in this debate? Dear colleagues, I have asked your Minister: how many cars in Bulgaria have been refused registration because they do not meet environmental standards? The answer In Bulgaria, a gas analyzer is active at first registration, which is a donation to the Sofia DMV. Such a check is only done formally. In the first registration, a document is presented as to what the environmental standard is, whether it meets or not, it does not matter at all. Your own minister says, if you don't believe me, you should believe him: the Road Traffic Act does not set rules for harmful emissions in the presence, over which registration or registration is refused or revoked. I mean, there's absolutely no legal order for that. A five-year-old car may be Euro-5 or Euro-6 standard, but it's got a removed catalyst and dirt over a 30-year-old car. What I am trying to tell you is that you are taking an entirely bureaucratic approach to the problem and will receive full bureaucratic results because you are not reforming, you have not made any effort to solve this problem. I know it is easier for you to reach into the pockets of the Bulgarians and increase taxes, but is it not wrong and is it not a bit forward before these important problems are solved, to approach this first? Because, colleagues, all control, and current, is absolutely formal. That is why we appeal to you first to solve these problems and only then to resort to, I understand, for you the easiest approach to raising taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I am extremely glad that today some discussion began on the topic of taxes on cars and at all the change in taxation because, if memory serves, the first reading went literally without discussion and quietly the government spent an additional tax burden on Bulgarian citizens. I also take into account your wishes, your direction to somehow make the state cleaner, the air cleaner, ecologically clean to be, however, honourable Members, you are eluded by a small but substantial detail. 70% of the cars in Bulgaria will be subject to a heavier tax. These are the cars of these Bulgarian citizens who have low incomes. These are the cars of these Bulgarian citizens who yesterday left them in the corner! I am also talking about the Bulgarian pensioners who left them with a minimum pension of 200 and several levs who cannot afford to buy an electric car! I'm talking about those who work on a minimum wage, although in the future increased, after the New Year, but they still can't afford to buy an electric car. When a tax policy is made, you must first think about the citizens! You have to think of those who fill the treasury in some way to give them a chance to breathe! You are not thinking of another topic, because this responsibility, which is with the increase in taxes, you transfer it to the mayors afterwards and then you will wash your hands and say: "Yes, but we did nothing. We have given the mayors of municipalities the solution. You are taking a serious step towards depriving Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity not only to buy cars, but also to drive their old ones. On top of that, fuel prices are flying to the skies right now. People are protesting. What you're doing in this direction, I really don't understand and no one in this room understands the motives with which you do this thing, except that you want to improve air quality. Do something else. Give us a preference! Give these people a chance to make a normal income!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u17	There are preferences!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u18	What preferences doesn't have any preferences?! Give people the opportunity to buy them, to receive income, to receive such funds to help them buy these cars! And what we do is all under the common denominator, all under the common denominator, all under the common denominator, violation of environmental legislation: let's hit them in the pocket! This thing will come back like a boomerang, dear colleagues! And the proposal that we have tabled from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is to drop this text at all, to be gone! And it is normal and logical for everyone who thinks about Bulgarian citizens that this text should not be accepted. We're a long way from this thing, understand that. Make it possible for each one to buy such a car, to stop really polluting the air. But this thing happens with money! This thing happened with a pension, whether on a salary, or with anything, things that were also at the next point in the State Budget Act and yesterday in the Public Insurance Act were absent. We're doing an anti-political thing right now. You are doing anti-politics now against Bulgarian citizens! It's a genocide, I can't call it otherwise. Take a reasonable decision and reject these texts, they should not be voted, they are harmful. There's no other way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. First line please, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u20	I'm making a line because I can't stand Mr. Ivanov's false claim, and it's that fuel prices are constantly rising. Mr. Ivanov can open his empirical data for 2013, I can provide you with such data for 24 June 2013. The price of fuels was significantly higher than now. I can return the question: what are you doing and Mrs. Ninova, as Chairman of the Social Committee, then what did you do? Because it's very easy otherwise to say these things from the stands and throw everything to the government and say: "The government is guilty of everything." Tell me, what did you do, now that you're out here in the back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I don't know what world you live in. I, in the world I live in and on the television I watch, see daily protests against the cost of fuel. [[(Voices from GERB: ……]] In 2013 I...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u23	There were no protests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u24	...I think you should go back a little bit. I want to ask you: what have you done for example with your proposal for 300 BGN? A minimum pension? Where'd that thing go? Where have you been? One step would be forward in the direction of giving [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] an opportunity for people to pay higher taxes. But you don't keep your promises. We have made the most normal, the most sensible proposal to drop this text because you failed to keep your election promise for 300 BGN. minimum pension. That's the truth. You do not allow the Bulgarian citizens to breathe that is the truth! Give a little breath, rejecting these texts. That's it, there's no other solution right now. Otherwise, the protests won't settle. You see that in every sector in the Bulgarian society everyone has gone outside and protested, and that is precisely against this government, because every step, every decision you make is wrong. That's the truth. And understand this thing. Otherwise, you won't make it to New Year's Eve. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not that we want you to sit... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u25	Mr. Ivanov, let's stick to the subject. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for extending the working time until the conclusion of the second decision taken by the Presidential Council. Before that, I suggest a name check. Thank you. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Name check. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] He asked us to vote for an extension of time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I do not see why we should start today again with some parliamentary tricks [[GERB noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u29	Where were you this morning?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u30	...which I don't think will contribute to Parliament's fruitful work. There is a quorum visible in Parliament, a majority visible. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Over 180 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u31	Please, guys! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u32	Tell me, why do you have to waste half an hour of parliamentary time to count? If anyone is pleased to hear his name from this stands, come out here and speak. But there is no need to waste time when there are people in the parliamentary room and this is not disputed by anyone. But if you want to do checks, just someone has to go back to school maybe, there they do them every morning, a name check to check it out. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u33	Why didn't you check in?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u34	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. It's the way it's supposed to be. We'll do a background check, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u35	Madam President, the discussion has just begun. I understand that your wish is also to run this name check, precisely in order to divert the topic at the moment and not to understand that the Bulgarian citizens will be in their pocket. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Of course, you know, by the Rules of Procedure, it's always been like this when you vote on the substance, then you do a roll call check. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now because one procedure has released Mr. Ivanov and you're running a name check?! And in that order of thought, please explain again to the MPs, to this roll call check those not present will you deprive them of sleeping cars? This is very important to understand because yesterday, obviously, all day the topic was who uses a sleeping car and who does not use a sleeping car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll do a roll call check, I haven't canceled the debate, so after the roll call check, we are continuing the debate on the paragraph. I'm starting a roll call: Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov is absent. 128 MPs are present. We'll continue the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite BSP and DPS to the hall! [[Radio.]] We'll continue the debate. We'll wait for the coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u37	Is there anyone who can speak? Because if there isn't, we can stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u38	Mr. Alexander Ivanov had a statement. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, I'm sorry, we also have a procedure for extending working hours, which is why it was the roll call check. Please, a voting regime to extend the time until the first and second items of today's agenda are exhausted. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! I will be brief in my speech, although we are dealing with an important subject. It is important to explain to colleagues who are not present at this important debate, I refer to my fellow Members on the left that they do not understand deeply the change set out in the Law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u40	Mr. Ivanov, just a moment! Colleagues, take your seats, please. You're interfering with the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u41	Thank you, Madam President. The amount of the tax is intended to be linked not only to the power of the engines but also to its environmental norm. You know that there are euro standards from 1 to 6. This is following the example in other laws in other countries, and the tax principle is the person who pays. Colleagues, this is not a sanction to older cars, but to those who pollute the environment and air that all of us and our children breathe. It is very important to note the following. The tax does not increase and does not aim to increase revenues in municipal budgets, because it will be compensated by the declining tax, which will anyway import the newer cars with a higher environmental norm and thus less polluting the air. Because I'm a member of the Budget, but also of the Health Commission, I can't help but mention one other factor. Fine particulates of size 10 are a serious cause of pulmonary diseases and cause a large mortality rate. Colleagues, when we talk about applying this norm and changing this tax and introducing an environmental form in its formation, we should say that, for example, for Sofia, this means reducing mortality in adults over 30 years by about 750 people. Colleagues, think through this prism. The priority is the health of the Bulgarians and we should not breathe the dirtiest air in Europe, so the measure is not fiscal, accept that it is both ecological and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u43	Then procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u44	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u45	Dear Mr. Ivanov, that is exactly what I was trying to tell you. You speak once that politics is an investment in health. That's what I've been trying to tell you. You will do nothing by reducing one by BGN 60 and increasing the other by BGN 100. With people's incomes, that's not gonna change the picture. You will reach into the pocket of the poorest and will not change anything. Because you didn't do your homework, you didn't do anything, that's what I told you, and that's what your minister, full legal vacuum control, zero technical control, zero obstacles to register old cars, no gas analyser, with one exception, one donation in Sofia, and before you do anything, you go the easiest way to reach into people's pockets. And that's the last thing you had to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u47	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in your speech the main thesis was that it imposes these higher taxes on newer cars with Euro 4 and a higher environmental standard concerned about ecology. At the same time, did anyone make an account of all these cheaper cars that are moving on the roads of Bulgaria, how many of them are with gas or methane systems, which in times pollute the air less than the newer cars with a higher euro standard? So the environmental thesis is one of the reasons that is not valid. The second reason, since you have given data here about the dirty air and fine dust particles in Sofia, excuse me, but you have been managing in Sofia for more than 12 years and what you want to do right now to build in the center of Sofia a garbage burning plant that will repeatedly more contaminate the air... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u48	Mr. Prodanov, let the line be on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u49	...than old cars. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u50	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Ivanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have listened and I really do not understand what the purpose of your proposal to raise taxes is. You're talking about ecology, I apologize, but the Environmental Ministry is constantly protesting all sorts of organizations, doing all kinds of violations, you've now found through people's pockets to fix environmentals in the country. You say that Bulgarian children should not breathe the dirty air. I agree, Mr. Ivanov. Unfortunately, Bulgarian children are already born abroad, they are not born here because you drove them away with your politics. Why do you not support our proposal to improve the country's demographic growth for a second child to have BGN 6400. And then talk about ecology?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u52	Mr. Ivanov, let it be on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u53	Why don't you do these things and hit people in the pocket first? Explain that here. We want to understand why you are hitting every Bulgarian citizen in the pocket and the pensioners and those with low incomes? That's what's important, and I want you to answer us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u55	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u56	It's the way it's supposed to be. Of course, have patience, Mr. Ermenkov, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bojankov, what do you propose: to fill Bulgaria into a cemetery of old cars from Europe, where it is forbidden with the old environmental standards to move on the streets? [[Noise in the room.]] . If you're saying that the way we're proposing tax change, the norm is not working, make a proposal to register...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u58	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u59	...of old cars to be terminated, not to have such registration. Mr. Prodanov, getting acquainted with your Vision for Bulgaria.If memory serves, wasn't there a question about the use of household waste through a burning method? From today's tribune you are referring to what project for a waste recovery plant according to the most modern environmental standards there are in Sofia, which is Austrian. So, take a look at your vision. I think the debate's warped. I still don't understand why you ran away from the subject, and by explaining that there will be no tax increases, you can't understand that, but you say the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u60	He said he didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u61	I won't answer the third line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov, then for speech Mrs. Yankova. There's a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. We started a constructive discussion of budget laws. We have tried to defend proposals in a reasoned manner. All of a sudden, you've allowed procedural moves to end this constructiveness and to reinstate opposition in parliament. You have admitted a pointless check, but you have achieved the opposite in 128 registered during the roll call check, 30 seconds after that 24 people have nihilated somewhere and only 104 people have participated in the vote to continue the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u65	Madam President, in my view, in this way you have questioned the results of this vote on the existence of a quorum in Parliament, you have questioned the very fact of the way in which you conducted the roll call check and its results. Moreover, from now on, you are questioning the legitimacy of any vote in this House, particularly on such an important issue as the budget is, based precisely on this question of a lack of quorum and a set one. Please, this is unacceptable and do not do it again, because the results will be even more crying for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u67	You questioned the quorum. Give me a chance to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u68	Mr. Zarkov, we understand your point. What do you think I should do? Come on, tell me what I have to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u69	Madam President, I allow myself to take the floor, because you really understood very well what my colleague Ermenkov said. [[noise and lines from GERB and "United Patriarchs"]] After 128 people...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u70	Please, colleagues, for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u71	We don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u72	Will you listen to me for a second? A hundred and twenty-eight people counted, and three seconds later they voted 104. The doubt created can be overcome not by shouting in the hall, but by conducting a new name check [[Voices from GERB!]] , in which to comply with the rules, namely: after reading the name of the Member of the National Assembly, he shall rise from the Chamber and declare that he is here. Otherwise, there's a doubt that you're throwing it off the list without even looking at who's in the room. Therefore, I ask you most constructively to overcome the doubts by counting again according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u73	Mr. Zarkov, I guarantee that behind every name read there was a representative of the House. If you were in doubt, you could leave a man and watch, you could review the video and see that there was a quorum. I guarantee it! I won't allow myself to make such a violation. We'll continue the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Nobody has to vote. As you can see, everyone has the right to vote on the subject on which they feel prepared and convinced. We'll continue the debate. Mrs. Yankova, come in. Admiral Manushev tells me, yes, there is clearly a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I support the opinion that has been made as our proposal to drop the item. 1, t. 4 t. 5 and so on. 6 in proposals § 35 for a change in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. I will motivate you why for me and for our parliamentary group are unacceptable with several arguments. First of all, we hear here all the time: yes, we take care of ecology and we want the old cars to start phased out. Dear colleagues, only that it is currently in the process of discussing the Clean Air Act, where mayors will have the opportunity to discuss and offer complex programs where different options can be applied to reduce pollution. Even for me it was incomprehensible why the Minister of Ecology stopped 286 million to give heating, and stoves, and another way to alternative heating for people so that emissions and pollution could be smaller and you left it for next year. This may be because of the elections that are coming next year. That is, there is now a political will to burden the lowest income groups of the ruling coalition. What do we give through the budget to these lowest income groups? First, we give 5.7% of pensions, which is small; we give plus 50 levs. increase the minimum wage and 10%, which is to increase the salaries of the administration. Only we all know that the last month inflation is 3.8%, that is, what is given takes much more, and this prickly will, which you are now declaring here that we are going to take out and care a lot about ecology, let's see the facts and on the other hand we have 150 thousand new cars and two million and five hundred old cars. Parallel to looking at the situation in the country and perhaps all colleagues to see their electoral regions. We don't have any inland transport in small municipalities, do we? In my constituency, my colleague Daritkova knows, we have 66 medical practices and 30 pharmacies. In a large part, perhaps in five of the municipalities, there is no internal transport, and if we start to stop the old cars gradually, what does that mean? Who will drive these people who have many times more expensive lives and pay much more, and now we give them an additional financial burden? The debate, which is in a hot phase, is also about the responsibility of the Member States. Right now what we're saying to the people who are two million and five hundred: the will is to tax you more so you don't pollute. Let's look for the other tools, increase and find the way for the quality of the life of Bulgarian citizens to change and then be more explicit. Here lies a hypocrisy in relation to the municipalities. With the budget that we will be debating in a moment, municipalities are given very little This is a trick of the Finance Ministry saying: we will give you opportunities through local taxes and fees to raise more money. By raising more money, this political decision of parliament is unacceptable for next year. Dear colleagues, just as the waste tax has gone away 2020 because next year there are elections and no one wants to impose more burdens, politically unacceptable mayors will accept this decision, that is, they will postpone it again for 2020. Therefore I want to address all of you: to see the realities in the country, utility services at what level are, to look at what we give to low income groups and then to make such decisions. I'm against your will. In the Bill, there are also good things in this paragraph that we cannot deny. With regard to administration, the information system which the Ministry of Finance has built with municipalities and notaries is the one that is responsible. There is no denying it, it will be commendable to stimulate it. This is what should be stimulated by the electric cars to be exempt from taxes and the mayors to create more such policies. That is why we cannot support this policy right now. Otherwise, it well-meaning and declarative sounds good, but if we see the robe of the Bulgarian people, the services it receives are unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yordan Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In the debate on § 35 we had a proposal which we submitted to the Commission. However, I am surprised, colleagues from BSP, and especially to you, Mr. Bojankov, because in your speech before the roll call check you were talking about environmental standards, about gas analysers, and at the same time in the Report, which is presented to the Commission, you want all the paragraphs that concern the environmental components under point. One, four, five, six, drop out. That is to say, I see duplicity in the room of populiski one thing, and in the report your proposals are in general for dropping the environmental components. In this regard, I ask you, after I have finished with my speech and the time has come for you to vote, to be so kind as to support our proposal, because it refers precisely to the environmental components and through the vote we will be able to verify what you meant by whether a populist statement from the stand or what was reflected in the report as a proposal. I will introduce you, fellow Members, to our proposals. We have two groups of proposals. One is in connection with the following. As you know, there is also an environmental component attached to the property component and thus determine the annual tax on these two components. It is said that the property component is determined by the power of the engine. When there is a hybrid vehicle, the power of the engine in the coupon is reflected as the sum of the internal combustion engine and the power of the motor. Thus, when we do not apply this word, which we want to insert inside, that is to say that we are talking about the power of the internal combustion engine, if not applicable, we do not add the words We're talking about the environmental component, and at the same time we're taxing the green electric motor. Our proposal is to add that power is the sum of an internal combustion engine and an electric motor and to be taxed in the financial component only the internal combustion engine and to turn off the electric motor. The large coupon describes how much the power of the petrol unit and how much the power of the electric motor is, so there is no justification for the municipal administration to say that there is no way to produce data on the electric motor. Also, honourable Members, we propose that the presence of the relevant environmental category be established not by the initial issued car certificate, whether from euro 1 to EUR 6, but by means of a document in the case of an initial and annual technical review. Dear colleagues, you know very well that you may have bought a car with an engine of Euro 5, but after two or three years during the operation.. bad fuels, removed catalyst systems, chips to increase the power of the engine, this car may not meet the standards of the respective category awarded to it by the factory manufacturer. Here I will give you an example of the reviews that take place in Germany, the so-called TV reviews, which are mandatory every three years. It doesn't matter what engine you have installed on your car and what category was assigned to it at the beginning of the factory manufacturer, and the annual review, the so-called TUV, after measuring the content of the harmful emissions that this engine emits into the atmosphere via gas analyser systems...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u77	Mr. Apostolov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u78	Sorry I'm late. We propose that you vote on our proposals for the award of an environmental category for real measured indicators in an initial and annual technical review as required by Regulation No 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Apostolov, I have listened to you carefully. You're talking about ecology, raising requirements and stricter control. First of all, I don't know if you're aware yourself that to date, probably around 30% of cars do not pass at all technical examination after initial registration?! [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Make a reference! Secondly, I want to ask you this. These things that you explain here, do you think Bulgarian citizens understand them? Do they understand what environmental standards you want to introduce and what requirements you want to introduce? [[Noise and lines from OP.]] And let me ask you, 200 leva. Is minimum pension ecological? Is it environmentally friendly, BGN 560? minimum wage? These environmental standards are relevant to people's incomes. I want to ask you if these people can afford it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u81	Second line? I can't see. Mr. Apostolov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u82	To tell you the truth, you threw me in shock. Thirty percent of cars did not pass an annual technical examination! Do you encourage this thing, are you sure about this data?! There is no way that 30% of cars do not pass an annual technical examination, because any traffic police inspection is required to show a valid annual technical examination. Otherwise, this car stops from moving. I can't agree with you. Apart from what we comment on the environmental norms, to remind you of 7000 euros per day in criminal proceedings. And you propose in the Commission report that all these paragraphs and proposals should be dropped, that is, you do not want to talk about the environmental component at all. I'm very sorry if I've talked too hard about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. A personal explanation asked for Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u84	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Apostolov, what hypocrisy are you talking about when we explain to you that there is a complete regulatory vacuum in the state, an absolute vacuum of control. I told you that in Bulgaria from the answer to my question it is clear that zero cars are denied registration simply because there is no technical possibility and there is no legal order in which to do so. This does not require money, does not require a change in tax policy, requires the will to reform; true, reform is difficult to do; requires capacity, requires professional attitude, much energy and effort. You went the easiest way, and that's just hypocrisy to reach into people's pockets before you lifted a finger to solve the problem in any other way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Next statement Mr. Gokov, then Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I thought I'd join this discussion, but I thought I'd have something to say to you. From the whole debate so far and from the importer's proposal, which I read, I seem to be under the impression that you do not care if the car pollutes the environment, the air, but you just want to take the money, impose a higher tax. If you were interested, you would listen to the words of your coalition partner that it is not good to classify a car as polluting just because it is 15 or 20 years old, but to see if it really pollutes or does not pollute what they offer. I ask you: is a car 20 years old with a gas or methane system as dirty as a new car with a damaged catalyst or a gas cleaning system?! I very much hope you'll reconsider what you're proposing. Let's see if it really works or if you're just raising money from these people. I also think that you should have assessed the impact of this bill and this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u87	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u88	I know there is, but an estimate that calculates how much money will go into the budget is not an estimate. For me, an impact assessment is if you had said: "When we introduce this tax, we will reach into the pocket of a million or a thousand Bulgarians, you can reach into the pocket of two Bulgarians, I don't know, and how it will affect their existence in these pensions. I can make an account of you without claiming to assess the impact of this bill. You say, for example, that you increase your tax by 70 BGN, we increase our liability three times, because that will happen as well. We also increase the cost if they want to pay. If one average person in Bulgaria, I am not even talking about the pensioners who receive 220 BGN. a pension, will pay.............................. and the tax paid, how many pensions it must give. This is the assessment of the impact of a bill on the people who live in Bulgaria. And one more thing. When I or my colleagues propose something in the social sphere, you keep repeating: Do not solve social problems through the tax and insurance system. But now you're trying to solve environmental problems through the tax system, but you're not gonna get it, you're not gonna get it. You have to solve environmental problems differently. There are two methods of the stick and carrot. You're using the stick method. We're going to increase taxes to the end. People aren't gonna pay, they're gonna drive their cars, and that's how it's gonna be. If you introduce incentives for people who buy new green cars, it will be quite different.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u89	There are such incentives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u90	You claim there is, I claim not enough. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]] Think about what you're doing. The last thing I'm going to tell you is this. You will create an unacceptable damage on the Bulgarians, on the one who cannot afford to drive electric cars, but I very much hope that the local authorities will stop the nonsense you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u92	I want to apologize for the words I just said. Turns out one of you did listen to what we suggested. I ask you again: not only does he listen, but everyone else strengthen their thinking processes and... [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u93	Mr. Apostolov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u94	...are aware that this is what we are proposing: by measuring environmental standards in an initial or periodic technical examination, it can be determined whether this vehicle meets the relevant standards assigned to it in production or not. With the upcoming changes to Regulation 32 for technical examinations at the initial registration and periodic registration, environmental criteria are introduced and if the vehicle concerned does not meet the standards, it does not matter what it says on its original certificate if it does not meet the standards, it will be suspended from movement if it violates the new requirements of Regulation 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u95	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Second line? Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Gokov, this is what we are talking about. I think you should just support us here, because the incentive, as I explained earlier in my speech, is that new cars with a higher environmental norm will be reduced. I think you get it, just on the left side of the room you don't get it, guys. And the other thing I'm going to tell you, colleague Gyokov, is this. It's an investment in the future. You are a member of the Health Commission and I will read you an analysis: In the analysis produced, which presents a qualitative indication of the potential health benefits from reducing pollution to achieving compliance with certain limits in terms of fine particulates of size 10, it means at national level that mortality can be reduced by 4300 people to 107 thousand. Colleague Gyokov, support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov will make the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gokov! Mr. Apostolov explained what are the changes in the Law on Roads that are coming, but I want to tell you something extremely important that will happen next year. The information system is so pawned that if the exhaust gases of a car that are dumped into the atmosphere exceed certain values, then the system itself will stop the review of this car and it will not be able to move along the Bulgarian roads. I hope you understand that at least.! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The second line was from Mr. Alexander Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Ivanov? Mr. Stanislav Ivanov will make the third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gokov! Mr. Apostolov explained what are the changes in the Law on Roads that are coming. But I want to tell you something extremely important that is going to happen next year: the information system is so set that the exhaust gases that are thrown into the atmosphere from the car exceed certain values. Then the system itself will end the review of this car and it will not be able to move along the Bulgarian roads. I hope you understand that at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Gyokov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Sorry, I'll start backwards. Mr. Ivanov, I understand your good intentions, but why all the way from your head to your feet?! First, you start: we're going to impose high taxes, then we're going to make a system that will take into account who's less polluting and who's more and who's going to drop out of it. If you had approached normally on the subject and on the subject, you would have started from the fact that when you import and purchase new cars, you would have put the standards of the car inspection or who checks them there, and you would have bought them equipment with which you would not allow registration of such cars in Bulgaria, which do not meet the ecological criteria. Secondly, you will do so that in the reviews, if a car does not meet environmental standards, you will not let it go and only then will you increase taxes and anything else. [[GERB lines.]] I am a member of the Committee on Health and I want the Bulgarian to live healthy, only in the general background of the health condition of the Bulgarian to tell me that by stopping 5 or 500 cars of the poorest people, we will increase their health status... Please forget that! Because the atmospheric air in Bulgaria, apart from cars, is contaminated by dozens of other things. Again, it is not from the feet head, starting from large combustion plants, if you want to get to the fact that the streets are not washed in normal order, which also pollutes the air and causes pulmonary diseases. So we can make a lot of roads and a lot of looks at the problem. Again, you start from the easiest: we increase taxes and solve the problem. It's not for you to decide! What you are telling me is that there are incentives for the tax to be reduced to high-speed cars.. will not be reduced. I have not heard during the management of GERB any tax to be reduced. There's no such moment! If you tell me which tax you've reduced, I'll agree with you, but there isn't one. Mr. Apostolov, I have heard your proposal carefully and I agree with him. Colleagues heard it too, but, Mr. Apostolov, your partners will not hear you. Unfortunately, they go forward and with this high self-esteem they have, and because they are always right, they also ignore their partner who is in the government and not to talk about the opposition. It is this high self-esteem that will lead them to overthrow the government, and you will suffer from this job.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u103	Mr. Gokov, time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u105	A statement? Next up is Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I will start with a slight flashback from the beginning of this year and ask the colleagues who are in the Transport Commission, if I make a mistake somewhere, in due course to correct me. If I am not mistaken, the principle has been introduced since the beginning of 2018 that the annual technical examinations points are linked together with the DMV system, which automatically means that all empirical data obtained at these points are obtained in the DMV. Thus, the state can now receive the information duly, within one calendar year, about the technical condition of the vehicle, mainly speaking of the engine. Here, we need to resolve the issue as a cardinal for ourselves: should we respect any principles in terms of ecology, health, economics and so on and then have a single principle that is common to everyone, especially for the person who pays? This is something that will be and will exist as far as I am aware, and in the next tax reform in the waste charge sector, which, although postponed for 2020, should be with the logic........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For this reason, I and a group of colleagues have made two proposals. With all due respect, I will address my colleagues from BSP and especially Mrs. Nino, with the call to support them, as we have failed to find sufficient will in our colleagues from BSP. They are expressed in something very simple: cars that use gas systems to benefit from a tax discount, i.e. reduced tax of 50%. Logic is still the same......................... pays..... but the pollutants with gas systems are not pollutants equal to those, for example, with diesel aggregates. That is why we have made such an offer. I'm going to ask you again: support us in this area. Support us in the other part where colleagues propose that in this check there be synchronization between the points of annual technical examination, the DMV and the municipalities, in order to actually make the right assessment of the amount of tax and how to tax people. Because we have to have the same principle for everyone that's common. It cannot be an exception for one person but for another to apply unevenly. I will also address colleagues from GERB. I understand the direction you're going. Again, we didn't comment on it. We are commenting on having the same principle and that it should be..... to pay.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Based on that, there are a lot of statistics. Support such a solution so that, following the principles, we can go in one direction. Otherwise, we remain wide open door to all sorts of speculation about the subject. On the basis of purely political PR, many things have been said here. However, a tax change, which is the introduction of a new component, should not be made and should be used only for PR. It should be done and used in such a way that it actually has a positive effect. If you aim the positive effect as I suppose everyone in this room should sit down and think wisely. I suggest that you support us in complying with the principle of paying for it, not all of it, even because of the pollutants. This is our proposal, and that is why I address Mrs Nino in particular, because it will also be up to you to decide on the decision of the parliamentary group. Again, we have found no support in the Budget Committee for our proposals.. neither by the BSP for Bulgaria........................... for Bulgaria...... nor by GERB or by colleagues from the DPS. That's why my argument is like that. From now on, I can list you many statistics and talk about what would bring this purely in economic terms, in social and personal terms to the individual Bulgarian citizens who use such cars. But my decision was to call you to a unified approach in every situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u107	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! A colleague, in order to be correct, as you have addressed the Transport Commission, the points for an annual technical review are controlled by the Automobile Administration and not by the DMV. And the cameras that are there check that when the car actually comes in, it's being examined, not just to stand for 15 minutes and give it the appropriate sticker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Second line? I can't see. There will be no duplicate, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement. Later, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of points 1, 4, 5 and 6 of § 35, as under points 4, 5 and 6 I declare a conflict of interest as I have a car registered in 1998. So let's follow the rules. First, for the first time in tax law, I notice that tax is used for punishment. 1. What does it say? 1? Point 1 states that if someone has declared two homes basic, they will then pay a tax on them, as if they were not basic. In practice, the person who did this filled out a false declaration and could suffer punishment under the law in question. I see no sense in the main body of the Law to introduce a penalty for payment of full tax. Because that's exactly what you're suggesting. That's why we're offering to drop it. There are ways in which a declaration, which is filled with false content, is sanctioned in the way in which it is provided for in the Law. The other is to make people think that tax is a punishment, and it's not something that needs to be paid, because that's the way the state works. Therefore, I ask you very much to reconsider and support our proposal on this point. 1 that it should be dropped, because it does not belong here. ) (a.k.a. 4, 5 and 6, which concerns cars. Yeah, we're all about improving the quality of life. Yes, we are all about achieving European standards, but let us try to achieve these income standards before we reach European standards. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when you came to power, you said you would not increase the tax burden. On the contrary, you are doing exactly the same: increasing the tax burden. People will pay more. The rate may not have increased, but you will pay and everyone who has such cars will pay more. After the price of bread rose by 25%, after the water everywhere became expensive more than 20%, now you have reached for people's air. The poor will pay for fresh air! That's exactly what you're doing with those two million, which you'll bet extra money to pay you. Why don't you make policy a priori? Why not place the appropriate customs enclosures to prevent the import of such cars, and put the Bulgarian poor citizen into the trap: buy a cheap car, but I will then take your money for buying it?! Next thing. Colleagues, how much pollution do you think a retired man in an old car who goes no more than 1,000 km a year? Because he can't afford any more. Because that's the price of gas. How much pollution do I ask? And how much they pollute all those who have expensive, powerful cars that buzz in the streets every day, day and night. Where's this thing done? Do this statistic and you will see that a powerful car pollutes much more when used daily, hourly, by a pensioner who may have climbed once a week to go to the village and come back from there. Do not upload any income and ways to fill your fissure through taxes, as you can not do it through economics and added value and it on the back of the poor as always! In any case, the poor guy pays for everything on his back. The rich is freed, the rich can make a choice what to buy, what to pay, what tax to receive. On the poor man's back, you put everything on him, including paying for the air already. After the bread and water, you reached for the poor man's air. Don't do that! Be good, calm down, pull yourself together and let's keep things the way they were until we raise people's incomes. Once we raise people's incomes, we can talk about quality of life. More than that. Ask one person what he would like: to buy bread today, clothes for the child, shoes, enroll him in school and buy textbooks or live five years longer for the sake of fresh air. You know the answer to that. Please respect him very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popov. Then, Mr. Kolev made a statement. Then Mr. Shopov and we end up with Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honorable Members of the Majority! You punish the Bulgarian people for being poor. You are once again trying to polish the sack of flour. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing left in this bag. Once again trying to polish it again the poor! And what Mr. Ermenkov asked you, I'm also going to ask you as a question, berem, for the second time you've heard it. Who pollutes more the poor man who passes 1000 miles per year to reach, for example, the hospital that is remote, or this rich man who, for example, with his expensive car, passes 100 miles per year? Here I heard what we were going to turn Bulgaria into a graveyard for old cars. No, honourable MPs, with this policy it will become a graveyard for our people, for our nation, because you condemn it to hunger and misery in the good form, you see, for the clean air. Do you know which countries the air is most polluted? In the poor, in the backward. Because during the winter season, the Bulgarian people are heated with solid fuel, wood and coal, that's why the Bulgarian forests disappear because they can't afford to pay electricity; because you boast that you have stopped three energy projects, including the nuclear power plant "Belene"; because even if the electricity is cheap, the Bulgarian will not be able to pay it again because it is poor; because with 200 leva. There is no pension; because with 500 leva. minimum wage, he can't make it through the month, he can't raise his own kids! [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Yes, on the subject, ma'am! It is precisely on the subject, because with these taxes that you are introducing right now, and you promised that you would not raise taxes, but this is a separate issue.. Everyone sees how much you hold your promises. You of GERB again condemn the Bulgarian people, the whole Bulgarian people, more than two million people because 50% of the fleet have cars over 15 years of poverty and misery, of lack. Because in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, the main postulate is free movement! You're a European party, aren't you, gentlemen of GERB?! What free movement do you provide for people by depriving them of their cars because they are poor and unable to buy new and expensive cars?! That's not how you do it. [[Noise and lines. Laughter from GERB.]] Yeah, it's funny to you because you must be driving a last-model car, I guess, but it's hard to understand how people live with 200 levs. a month. And that's not funny at all, it's a grotesque picture. I see your nepotism, I see your attitude towards the people that sent you here. I hope they understand you, too. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u113	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Kolev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u114	Madam President, honourable Members! There were a lot of harsh words here. People didn't understand ecology, we punished them, the poor paid for fresh air, the quality of life was defining... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u115	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u116	...we've prevented people from moving freely with their cars. We underestimate people very much, dear colleagues! Now I'm going to tell you a few numbers, what it's all about, what we're here for and what we're trying to do. Do you know how much the preventable mortality of contaminated air in Bulgaria is? Eighteen thousand people a year. Do you know how much it's from accidents? Six hundred and eighty-two people. We are throwing crazy money and trying from these 682 people to reduce the mortality rate and become 600, 500 to reduce it down, and we do not think about these 18 thousand people who die of premature death each year, from contaminated air in Bulgaria and not in Europe. It's not punishment for the poor, it's not punishment for the people. We're trying to prevent that 18 grand, cut it to 17 grand, 16 grand, 15 grand as much as we can. Let's join forces and do this. I hope you all understand that the really damaging health must pay. And the one who causes death, what should we treat him for?! It's not health damage, it's dead people who might not have died. We are not thinking about sanctioning people right now and filling the treasury, thinking about how the one who creates the conditions for this premature death should be good enough to pay for it. What's the fault of those who don't drive cars to breathe dirty air? What is the fault of those who try to be environmentally friendly and try to buy a new car? It's got accelerants. You're gonna do everything you can to get an accelerant so you don't get dirty. We must not forget the fundamentals that we are now united by the effort not to adopt a law and dry to look at it, but to make sure that these 18,000 people who die every year from the exact amount of dirty air are reduced. One more thing. You say that much of the pollution is due to the winter season and solid fuels. It's true, but only for winter. Cars fight all the time. If we analyze where the 18,000 people died, you'd be surprised right in the big cities. Is that where the big pollution of wood and coal is? Look at the World Health Organization. Read about it, the information is available and you will find out. Let's finally unite. Support our efforts to make the air in Bulgaria cleaner, support us and the one who pollutes can pay a little more, not killerly more, so that there is an incentive not to pollute. Put everyone together in the country to make an effort and reduce air pollution. If you want, we can look at it another way. Let's ask the families of these 18,000 people who died from this death that could be prevented, do they agree to this increase? Let's ask them and see what they say. For not opposing the population, see, we punish them, we tax them! Let's get this straight. Our main goal is to severely reduce the large number of this mortality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kolev, I was shocked by an expression you used. I don't know if you all heard it: who causes this death to pay for it. If that is the purpose of the Law, I would like to tell you that we are working in the wrong direction. You have pointed out several times in your statement the figure 18 thousand. As a person who thinks whether a law has any effect, would you say after the introduction of these amendments to tax legislation how much would the 18 thousand decrease? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Popov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u120	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kolev, raising the taxes on poor people will not reduce air pollution, on the contrary! You told them to do everything they could and put on a catalyst. I'd like to ask you BGN 200, BGN 250, or four hundred a month, what are you going to do to get a new catalyst? This isn't the way. Of course we all want to live in a cleaner environment, but we live primarily in a poor environment, in poor Bulgaria. When the standard is raised, then the level of air pollution will be reduced, more environmentally friendly technologies will be used, because it is not just the cars that pollute the air. When restrictions on imports of such cars are introduced from now on, in the future, and not of already imported and used cars in Bulgaria, this is a step in this direction. Yes, you propose that with regard to gas vehicles there is a more differential rate, a lower levy in practice. Maybe this is a step in the right direction, but you have no guarantee that they will only fight on gas, they can fight on gasoline. How did you get this guarantee? Because I think that the levy, if we want it to be ecologically targeted, should enter into the price of fuel and the one that drives more to pay more for fresh air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u121	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u122	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You're talking about air cleanness, and citizens are not gonna get any fresh air. I will read you two paragraphs, or rather three from the European Court of Auditors report, which is from the end of September this year: specifically for Sofia, there are no projects to reduce air pollution, and this is a significant source of fine dust particles that is mentioned in this report. The air quality plan does not contain any measures to reduce air pollution by households and cars. This is in your management of Sofia. One more important thing: since 2014 the measurement station for air cleanliness of Eagle Bridge has been removed. From 2010 to eight years, 650 million were granted in Sofia. lv. for fresh air. The result is not zero, it is negative. We will not improve air cleanliness by lying to people and uploading measurement stations near Vitosha. We all know the air is cleaner than the Eagle Bridge. It's all in your department. Don't be fooled, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Kolev, will he have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u124	Dear colleagues, isn't it worth our efforts to save even one human life?! We here can talk about world statistics where in the countries have already solved this issue legislatively and financially, and the taxation of pollutants is greater. There is an impact and this preventable mortality is significantly smaller. This comparableity already exists in world statistics, and there is no need for us to take it out or form teams and collectives to take it into account. I understand that you understand that, too. The second thing Mr. Popov said, specifically here the purpose of our event for cars is that there is no guarantee whether we are driving on gas or gasoline. Yeah, there's no guarantee. I'm past 500,000. km per gas. Five hundred thousand kilometers personally, I was driving on gas, and that was back in the '80s when we were pouring bottles into the gas system. But this incentive, which has it in the difference in the price of gasoline and gas, leads the owner of the car to drive on gas and he strives to drive on gas. Here, this matter is solved. The point is to be able to get more incentives, more people to pass on gas systems and more people to drive on gas. So here this question is solved. Colleagues, please support our proposals. They're not targeting people, they're targeting them. And the last thing I want to say is, do we have any statistics? I am currently helping three women, two of whom have lung cancer, and they live in Sofia, in the center of the city. We are constantly helping them either with Oncology or with ways in which they can obtain the appropriate medicines and therapies. These people don't have good income. These people are very supportive. We've talked about these changes. Everyone in Bulgaria, if they make a little effort and do something, thus giving their contribution in improving the air, will be fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Mr. Shopov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues of GERB, I am addressing you. Anything I say will be directed at your eyes and ears, and I want to be understood correctly. If this budget isn't a honey landing, it's a big shot, a jar of honey. This isn't the post pizza for nine years! And on this cup of honey you pour two teaspoons of tar. Two spoonfuls of tar! Why? For a few million leva extra. I'm wondering, too. Borisov obviously didn't follow you, or he would have told you. And he would have stopped you in that madness you were doing. You give gifts to BSP every day and they take advantage of these gifts. We're seeing their talk right now in the hall. I don't understand why you're doing this. Billions in more budget than the well-growing economy, the high gross domestic product, for the first time collected claims in favor of the state treasury of the gray sector and in general... And in relation to the so raised tax, and in relation to this is now another topic, with the increase of taxes owed for second home, you minimize the effect of the great success Bulgaria has achieved in recent years with its record budget, with the retention of the tax money at one level. You give the impression that you're raising taxes. And who does that? It's made by a few of you inside who have led you in the wrong direction. Borisov stopped you in connection with the increase of tax liability, rudely speaking, but in the end, I'm sure he can't shine anywhere. And here some of you are making this provocation. It's a provocation! Because we are in power, from the United Patriarchs, to preserve taxes at this bearable level at which they are located. And you, again, for a few million more you do this nonsense again. And you make this gift to talk to make noise to speculate from the BSP the way they do. Because both on screens and in newspapers and in society there is no talk about the billions above in the Bulgarian budget for next year. On these two topics, the increase in taxes on motor vehicles and the so-called increase in second housing are discussed. That's it! I don't think there's any wisdom in this, there's no political logic in doing it. And I turn again to you from GERB, consider it and do not enter the scheme of several people who are satisfied with it. One reason is the several million more against the backdrop of the billions that wipe out the effect of what has been achieved in the country first. And, secondly, a lobby, the importers of new cars, which has long worked, which is very powerful, no one talks about it, which has reached some of you, it has always tried to reach MPs, ministers because it is always unhappy with the number of cars imported in Bulgaria. And this is one of the cries of this lobby why there are so few, and there are always good reasons for this lobby to achieve success. And another third reason. She's ideological. The liberal forces in Bulgaria with your care for the human beings remember this call from some time ago: communist, socialist, human care. They find a decent reason to push their ideas forward, so I advise you to get together, think about it and do not do this stupid thing with which you wipe out so much of the effect of this budget, which is the best budget of Bulgaria in recognition of everyone in decades!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u127	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Your time is up. Any lines to Mr. Shopov? There are no lines. It's Mr. Svilensky's next speech. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, it has really become a nice and useful debate on an important topic that concerns every Bulgarian citizen. And indeed, many different arguments have been heard from many different points of view: from saving 18 thousand people's lives who are dying because of the contaminated air, to how, by raising taxes, we will improve the environment, the checkpoints, how they will work and stop pollutants. These appliances, which bought Sofia Municipality, probably others, to check the dirt on the road on the move and stop cars. And it has not become clear at the moment, however, what are the results of these measures, i.e. how many cars have been stopped because they are polluting the environment, how many cars have not been registered at the DMV because they are polluting, how many funds have been invested under the various programs and funds to provide cleaner air? And we dress him up as arguments about raising people's taxes. Colleagues, I would have accepted your arguments if this thing had been recorded in your election program, if you had said last year that you would have raised the taxes of cars by 50% to all Bulgarian citizens and they, voting on their conscience, supported you and gave you this mandate. Only then you didn't say that. You have not told Bulgarian citizens that you will raise their taxes on cars and housing and now you are lying to them. Now you're not fulfilling your commitments and you'll get their answer, probably. And there's no way to accept a 50% discount for cars up to 74 kilos. These are the most massive cars. It's probably a million-million and 200 cars that and more. It doesn't matter if it's a new car or an old car. And on a 5-year-old car up to 74 kilos with what you're offering, you raise his tax by 50% and from 30 levs. It's going to be 60 leva. Are you sure that with these 30 levs, taken from a million and 200 million, three million Bulgarians, we can fix the fresh air? But they don't go for fresh air. We know where that money goes, don't we? They go to municipal budgets and are used for quite other activities. Does that money go for cleaner air? Someone, if there is such information, let's say that 5 billion will be collected from the tax increase. BGN, which will go for policies to improve the clean air, because I do not have such information. Here I'm going to put the question of the collected ecotaxes. You do know that every car collects the ecotax? And from these ecotaxes, how much money does it go for recycling and so on? You know that problem. And it will probably be placed here at some point in this room. So there's no way with arguments: saving lives, fresh air, ecology, raising taxes. Let's take all the other measures -- the DMV, when registering cars, do not register those who poll; checkpoints, when they pass through, limit the passage, but have it as information, as statistics -- how stopped, how returned, how much they have passed. To say that this measure will improve the purity of air by any criterion. There's no such thing! There are only tax increases of mass cars, of the most massive and of all Bulgarian citizens. And then we say, well, some environmental components. So how many of these cars are going to take advantage of these components? Can anyone tell? You can't say that either. My proposal is indeed: deprive yourself of the few million you expect from this tax. Deprive yourself because you're already giving people reasons not to believe you every day. So far, if it were once a week, the signals that the ruling majority broadcasts are daily. And think about the stability of the government you have. With these actions you will not be able to endure until the New Year, as some colleagues have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, we have heard a rather broad debate and what is really positive for me is that many opinions have been heard, many proposals, many comments, many criticisms, if you will, related to an extremely important and sensitive topic for Bulgarian citizens. Members of the National Assembly have committed themselves to addressing this issue responsibly, and that is exactly where I am speaking. I would like to call for support for these proposals, which are related to long-term policies concerning the life and standard of living of Bulgarian citizens. Allow me to quote data from the analyses of the World Health Organisation and the European Court of Auditors. According to the World Health Organization, 7 million people die every year because of the dirty air outdoors and indoors, every nine out of ten people breathe air containing high levels of pollutants. Air pollution is a critical risk factor for non-infected diseases that causes approximately one quarter of all deaths in adults from heart disease, 25% of stroke, 43% of chronic obstructive lung disease and 29% of lung cancer. According to the World Health Organization in Bulgaria 18 thousand premature deaths per year or on average 50 Bulgarians a day die because of the dirty air. According to the European Court of Auditors, air pollution is the greatest risk to health in the European Union. And we, colleagues, cannot stand by taking into account these facts and data. We have to act. We must act with the implementation of measures. Yes, and here I would agree with many of those spoken by fellow Members, these measures must be complex. We need to have a comprehensive policy related to the main pollutants. For Bulgaria, these are undoubtedly domestic heating and transport. Transport is second in line. The Law on Cleanliness of Air was mentioned. Yes, new regulations relating to the fuel used for domestic heating are also introduced there, but transport is undoubtedly the second factor for air pollution in Bulgaria. That's why this isn't about a self-sustaining fundraiser. This is not about what was repeatedly launched by colleagues on the left as a mantra. It's not about tax increases. Here it is a question of introducing together the principle that leads Bulgaria to a better standard of living, better conditions for our citizens, namely the protection of human health, stimulating the introduction of the principle, the integration of this principle into all policies, including tax policy, so as to stimulate the use of clean vehicles. I would therefore also like to mention the fact that Bulgaria is subject to sanctions from the point of view of the violation of European legislation. We all know that Bulgaria was the first Member State of the European Union to be sentenced by the European Court of Justice in April last year in connection with a violation of the quality of the air. These are facts that we should not ignore hidden behind short-term political goals hidden behind mantras. Let us be sensible politicians and be aware that sometimes political decisions are difficult. Yes, sometimes political decisions are unpopular, but it is citizens who also want us to take measures, including changes in legislation, so that we can guarantee the clean air for our children. I therefore appeal to support for proposals relating to a change in the approach to vehicle tax formation, focusing on the environmental component. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, thank you for your right speech. You gave her statistics and numbers and everything that this debate needed. However, it did not become clear by raising the tax on one car from 20 to 40 leva. Do you think we're gonna make these people get out of the cars? So this measure that you're proposing, which you're looking at as part of a complex measure, is it going to work? Because this guy who drives a car for two, three, five thousand leva, he doesn't have a chance to buy a car for 20. 30 thousand. BGN, for which to pay this lower tax, that is, he will continue to drive this car, only he will pay another 30 BGN. more. That's the problem. We're not against environmental standards. The problem is that with this measure you achieve nothing, you simply mistake in the pocket of a million and a half, two or three... I do not know how many will be affected, who will continue to drive their old cars, paying more, but the money will not go to ecology. If the money, again, was going to some ecology fund to improve air cleanliness, to put stations and the Eagle Bridge for measurements, well, there is no such thing. There is no result you want to get. This isn't even part of the complex measures. Let's focus on the others that you said: preventing imports, stopping such cars and then hitting the last car that a person has left in the garage so that there may still be some movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u133	Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u134	Thanks for Mr. Svilensky's line. I hope that, together with my colleagues and the Transport Commission, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Development, we will work together so that the measures can be effective. Much of the things that need to happen together with this change, and these are related to the opportunities of municipalities to define low emission zones, the opportunities of municipalities to implement their climate air quality management programmes are things that I hope we can work for together. Where's the money going? The money goes to municipal budgets and that's clear. As far as municipalities are concerned, through the municipal programmes in which there is a strict and clear regulation laid down for air cleanliness, they can be directed towards the implementation of specific scheduled measures in these programmes so as to achieve the objectives and not exceed the acceptable standards of pollutants in the air. In this sense, I would also be happy to have you come up with such a proposal in these programmes for the quality of the atmospheric air of the specific municipalities. Otherwise, again, I would like to remind you that the change in the approach relating to the principle of payment does not mean the increase in tax. It means a change of approach. It means to stimulate the use of environmentally friendly and cleaner vehicles. As I said, this is a long-term measure, and no one is fooled that from tomorrow, everyone will get out of their old car. It is important that we, as a society, move towards this step, continue in this direction in order to achieve really better living conditions, a cleaner environment, if you will, and lower greenhouse gas emissions, so that we can also ensure a good quality of life for our citizens, and a sustainable development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u135	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Mr. Shopov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u136	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs and I want a 15-minute break and I am doing this to give the colleagues of GERB the opportunity to gather and solve their problem. I see they're quite divided, too. Let them consult their superiors and listen to our words. These were exposed, spoken, in the consultations it was said that we ate the frogs on screens and in newspapers. Don't let's keep eating them. I urge you to gather on your break and think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u137	Reverse procedure Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u138	Dear Madam President, I address you in the manner of conduct. After seven minutes is the regular rest of the National Assembly. I don't think we need a break from the 15 minutes Mr. Shopov asked for, and he has no right. And I just wanted to make a statement about a good and sensible proposal that they made...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u139	An hour before and an hour after the start, there is no right to ask for a break, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u140	You'd better give it in eight minutes, that's the end of the debate, so we better get to the regular break. And it was our parliamentary group that wanted to support a good proposal from the government. Quite often of them we are criticised that the opposition does not have a hearing capacity for good proposals. On the contrary, the proposal of the United Patriarchs...................... of the colleague Nikolai Alexandrov and Stanislav Stanilov....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u141	In the manner of conduct! I'll give you a statement after the break I have to respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u142	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 is created a new para. 6 for motor vehicles with a permissible mass up to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u143	Mr. Vladimirov, you are already on the subject. I have to keep the rules and rest. Then we'll continue the debate. I saw you signed up for a speech, so I'll give you the floor. Colleagues, take a half hour off! An exhibition of the famous Bulgarian artist Zhivko Ivanov will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. Alumni of the National School of Music and Performing Art will greet the MPs with a short concert. The event is part of a series of cultural initiatives presented by the Members of the National Assembly in Burgas. Welcome to the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u144	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the meeting. Mr. Vladimirov, you have an appointment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order that there are no untenable criticisms and remarks that the opposition does not see and hear the good proposals of the government, I would like to refute this with the good proposal of the colleagues from the "United Patriarchs"... Alexandrov and Stanilov in § 35, art. 59 to create a new para. 6: For motor vehicles with a permissible mass of up to three and a half tonnes, manufactured with an additional installed car gas system. The tax is paid by 50 per cent. This is indeed a good proposal, because we know that car gas systems protect the environment. To a large extent, people who use and install gas systems are people with less financial capabilities. In this direction, we have heard speeches from all the parliamentary groups and I hope that this proposal will be supported. Our parliamentary group will support this good proposal by fellow Members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! For more than an hour we have been having a very heated debate on a topic that is up-to-date, a topic that we discussed in the previous weeks in newspapers, in television, in radios, on the Internet, too. I think the public is quite interested. Unfortunately, however, criticism has been heard on the left side of the House that we almost condemn people to hunger, to suffering, to misery. There is an extremely ugly apocalyptic picture of how people will be extremely damaged by the change we make in this paragraph. Here, however, we need to say something very clearly. This isn't about tax evasion. This is about tax redistribution. Here the contaminant pays more. Whoever pollutes less, pays less or has some kind of tax reduction. It is an incentive for people to be proactive and to comply with the environment. The increase for cheaper cars, which are really cheap, not so powerful, not so new, is in the order of two, three, five leva, which is nothing but not huge as a sum. Here the budget effect is really hardly significant, but it is a step in the right direction. A step in the right direction, because it's not so much about money, it's about thinking, it's about choice. I bothered to make a reference to one of the popular sites that people use when buying a car. What did I see on this site? I'll tell you, but first I want you to think about what you see when you're driving on the road, what do we all see? We see a lot of cars, a lot of old cars, but a lot of them are popular, up-to-date, expensive brands. These cars were expensive when they were new, they were much more technical, much better when they were new. What I notice is that people would prefer to give 3,000, for example. lv. for an old car over 20 years old, with a lower environmental score than 3 thousand. lv. for a vehicle which is 7 years old, which is smaller and has a higher environmental assessment. The same thing I noticed on this site and with a price slightly higher, for example 10,000. lv. A car of 3 years, which is smaller, more ecologically clean, costs so much, but I see on the streets cars over 10 years old, which can also be purchased for this price. What's the conclusion I'm making? The conclusion I make is that this measure is more about reeducation, care for people and the environment. Indeed, each of us should think twice when making our choice. We need to start somewhere, and I think this is the right way to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Go ahead, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a procedure. 14 for art. 54 et seq. Art. 18, Art. 61, para. 2 of the Additional Report to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u150	Colleagues, I am putting to the vote Mr. Nenkov's procedure: 14 for art. 54 et seq. Art. 18, Art. 61, para. 2 of the Additional Report to be voted on separately. Vote 185 MPs: for 184 against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to unsupported proposals. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. Vote 184 MPs: 83, against 23, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova. They voted 185 MPs: 62, against 70, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Yordan Tsonev in the unsupported part. They voted 183 MPs: 23, against 45, abstentioned 115. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. They voted 188 MPs: 22, against 19, abstention 147. The offer is not accepted. We vote separately. 14 for art. 54. They voted 178 MPs: for 2, against 75, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on it. Art. 18, Art. 61, para. 2. They voted 171 MPs: 29, against 59, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u151	Madam President, since this House has just been rejected. 14 for art. 54, para. 3, I want to make a proposal in point. Art. 14, Art. 14. 54 to be added to the version of the main report, as was the main report. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] The editing is: in art. 54, para. 3, p. Five is canceled. That's the main report. Let it be laid down in the final version now in the place of the newly rejected proposal for art. 54, p. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u152	Please vote on the so-made editorial amendment by Mrs. Stoyanova. They voted 123 MPs: 94, against 21, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the entire text with the corresponding versions of the Commission Report.................................................................................................................. Vote 182 MPs: 107 against 74, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Our group has supported the proposed Commission text, which has been edited. I was the only one who voted against it in order to have a negative vote to say what really happened today about how people who use gas systems used to pollute the atmosphere were punished. GERB said they had the courage, they came out, they said. BSP supported our proposal, for which we thank them, but the DPS and Volja....who in no way expressed their position on these things voted against....and punished the people who use gas systems in order not to benefit from a 50% reduction. That's what you need to know. People were punished by Mareshki and the DPS. That's the truth. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u154	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Tsonev, negative vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the text we voted on, an extremely important proposal by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was rejected, which concerns the budgets of municipalities and in which there is no motivation to reject it. The question was that the car tax should be paid where the car moves along the roads and damages them where it pollutes the environment and not where the leaser's seat is, because the seat is in Sofia. This text was rejected and as an erzac of this we are given some text about gas systems with motive ecology, which no one knows about who drives, whether it is on gas or gasoline at the moment. Here the accusations by the nationalists on this topic, after the previous text voted against and wronged the municipalities in which the cars, taken on leases, and benefited Sofia, because all the large leasing companies are here and they are here to read us morale and ask us why we have rejected an absolutely provocative and lobbying text, I absolutely do not accept. [[Noise and lines from the O.P., shouts: "Eee! "]] There's no need to shout! Look at your vote on the really important texts. It is a tax for hundreds of millions on vehicles, which will not go to municipalities, where the natural environment is polluted and where the roads are depreciated, but will come to Sofia. These cars aren't in Sofia, my dear! I'll give you one example.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u156	Mr. Tsonev, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u157	Yeah, I'm done. I'm sorry I'm running out of time. I'll give you one example. The largest leasing company with all the trucks and trucks is based in Sofia and has several billion turnover here in Sofia pays its tax. In Sofia, my dear patriots! [[Applause from DPS, shouts: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u158	I'm paying attention! Mr. Tsonev, I'm addressing you! He doesn't want to hear from me. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I pay attention to the language Mr. Tsonev uses. The address wasn't accepted in this room. [[Noise and lines.]] We haven't had any more rounds since yesterday. Excuse me, colleagues. I keep thinking we're not gonna address each other like this, so I'm taking the liberty of making a comment. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u159	Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. It's outrageous when a colleague here allows himself, from the stands, to edify, to give the mind to another colleague. All MPs are equal. You can't give us any sense. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I said what you did to the Bulgarian citizens with gas systems! The other one, Mr. Chairman. He has allowed himself several times to use qualifications in an insulting aspect to us, which is also unacceptable. In my speech, I have not offended any of them in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u160	Mr. Angelov, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u161	In the manner of holding.It should be specified when someone is exporting information and misleading society, how almost all these vehicles that have been registered here have been paid here. Why? How will they prove that they are elsewhere in Bulgaria? It's the same for gas systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u162	Mr. Angelov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u163	My request is, please, strictly observe the speakers, especially the DPS, because they cross the border. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS, shouts: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u164	Mr. Tsonev, in the manner of conduct. Please, and please don't go out of your way. Please! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u165	Mr. Chairman, I accept my remark. I take it I'm out of the good graces, but I don't accept that you have the same measure. I address you in the manner of conduct. You should have made the same remark to the unspeakable. Several times in a negative vote he explains how other parliamentary groups voted. The explanation of a negative vote does not include this. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to measure with the same measure. I accept the remark made to me, but you will not allow this tribune to evaluate the votes of other parliamentary groups. I explained our vote. I'm asking you to take the same measure as the previous one.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u166	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Thank you for your self-esteem. I accept the note on my part. I tried to interrupt Mr. Angelov. I hope he doesn't abuse the procedure. From now on, I will take action. There is a request on behalf of a parliamentary group for a declaration. Mr. Mareshki has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is obvious that the sooner certain misunderstandings are thrown out of political life and from the government of the state, the faster peace, justice, serious governance will reign in the interests of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. Because how do we evaluate the following sentence, which makes one of Krasimir Karakachanov's closest associates and former governor, escaped, denied this party because of these things that I will read to you? This is about the former Vice-President of IMRO Mr. Kostadinov, and you know, for example, Dzhambazki or Veselinov, these are the closest people who know very well what the Karakachan Party is about. So this guy says that whenever IMRO was in the government of the country, the Agency for Bulgarians abroad was under its control and its chairman was named personally by Karakachanov. The arrested head of the Agency for Bulgarians abroad is broadcast by the party IMRO, its old frame, personal friend of Krasimir Karakachanov. I thought the people said that. " See what his friend is like and draw conclusions. Anyone who is familiar with the criminal practices of the Karakachan Party knows that nothing can happen at the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, absolutely nothing without the knowledge of Krasimir Karakachanov, who in fact........................................................................ We from the party of Volja, who are firmly behind the interests of the Bulgarian people in the battle against these two Deputy Prime Ministers of Karakachanov and Valeri Simeonov, who allowed themselves to hold an evil, ridiculous, vile, cynical battle against mothers, against Bulgarian mothers, regardless of whether they are mothers of children with disabilities or mothers with healthy children, are Bulgarian mothers, and the other who was part of a scheme, according to his deputy, from the sale of the most Bulgarian citizenship, and Bulgarian citizenship is not a commodity, is not for trade, honourable colleagues from VMRO! We of the Party will fight to the end to eradicate these two from the Bulgarian government. The names of these two will forever be related to the things I said to you with the insults against Bulgarian mothers and the sale of Bulgarian citizenship, with the appointment of their close friends as chiefs of agencies who subsequently maraud Bulgarian citizens, with attempts to make other citizens proud winners of the other highest honor in Bulgaria. Is that what you understand about patriotism?! Yesterday a journalist tells me that in Bulgaria is like this and everyone is trying to fix their friends. It's not like that! That's not true patriots. Unfortunately, this word in the Bulgarian Parliament, through the so-called "United Patriarchs" has reached the bottom. If there is a shred of morality left in these people, valor, if you will, patriotism, we expect them to do as quickly as possible the will of more than 90% of the Bulgarian people who want them to resign. However, if there is no other way for these people to be thrown out of power so that they do not shame Bulgaria, not to shame the Bulgarian cabinet, ultimately not to lead Bulgaria, because in the absence of Borisov these two become prime ministers of Bulgaria. Can you believe it, guys?! Is that why the Bulgarian people voted? In fact, these are the two who are the only ones in this Parliament who have never had the courage to appear on their own, or when they appear on their own, have not received sufficient support to be part of the Bulgarian Parliament. We will fight to the end to get them out of power for no other reason, but because if these two remain in the Bulgarian government, this will be a victory of the Bayanistry in Bulgarian politics. [[Reply from the O.P.: "Hey, Ganyo! "]] This will be the victory of the vulgarity, the thick eyes, the forgetful, those who mock patriotism and the patriotism! We of the Will cannot allow this! I hope that together with the Bulgarian people we will succeed! Thank you and good luck! [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u168	Mr. Angelov, what's the occasion? [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] A declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We were just listening to the titanic thought of a political party leader. I'm sure that if you put a lie detector here on this console when Mr. Mareshki talks and joins him, the rock will do this all the time because there is no such duplicity! There is no such duplicity on one day to claim one thing, the next day to claim another; one day you are a liberal, the next day you are a democrat, the third day you become a patriot, every day you change who you are! And to keep us from IMRO a moral account! Imagine! A man who has charges of racketeering, extortion and battery! Vice-President of the National Assembly! He should resign as Vice-President of the National Assembly until all his cases have been completed so as not to undermine in any way the prestige of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. He doesn't, of course. And he holds account of IMRO and Karakachanov! Neither IMRO nor Karakachanov were charged. And what happens in this case? The thief shouts, "Hold the thief." The weirdest thing, imagine what this is all about! He's quoting the man he beat up. That's going way over the line! Kostadin Kostadinov is suing him for beating him up and he's quoting him! Imagine what this is all about! [[Applause from OP.]] It's just... I'm speechless! It's okay, okay, you can say a lot of things, but such a thing?! It's just funny. It's pathetic and funny! Mr. Mareshki allowed himself, in the media and in the National Assembly, to lie and deceive. He argues how the Bulgarian Policy Committee received signals of corruption in the Agency for Bulgarians abroad and so on, which turned out not to be true and this is a lie! He claims how these signals were given to the prosecutor's office a second lie! They didn't give anything to the D.A., they didn't give any signals like that. There have been two signals from mediators from Ukraine, e-mails have been listed. And what did it turn out to be? Everyone was taken out during the inspection that they had fake birth certificates for grandparents. They were given to the D.A. by the Agency itself. He claims they fought corruption. What kind of corruption are you fighting?! Did IMRO get a fine for unfair competition or his companies?! What kind of friends were they? You've made friends. Well, the head of the Agency was never a member of the IMRO, but of the Association of BG Patriarchs. And he ordered all of his lawmakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u170	And relatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u171	All of his lawmakers made them. And he's talking about who was friends with whom and what happened. Another, quoting the one he beat and sued him on, I will say: this man, yes, was Vice-President of IMRO and he was responsible for Macedonia and Bulgarians abroad. If he claims there was something wrong, he must have done it because he was in charge of IMRO on this topic as a member of the IMRO leadership. But because they're of the same dandruff, they're both talking to each other all they want, no one's keeping an eye on them. From now on, however, in IMRO's leadership, we have decided everyone who slanders, insults and indicts the leadership of IMRO, IMRO, the Chairman of IMRO, all of them will be tried, because this fair, this blow that was struck on the organization, will not be forgiven anyone. I say to no one! All who stood behind this mutiny, which was made, and were thus betrayed the Bulgarian national interests, not only IMRO, this circus, which was made, hits the policy of the Bulgarian state for Bulgarians abroad. And immediately the Republic of Serbia took advantage of the arrest of four because they were engaged in citizenship. When did the Republic of Serbia arrest them? On November 1st the Day of the Buddhists. For 20 years there has been a Cultural Information Center of Bulgarians in Tsaribrod. On the same day, when the Deputy Prime Minister of Bulgaria is there, Ambassador, MPs, the same day you arrested them on purpose! Is this what the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian institutions have done to enable foreign countries to take advantage of a scandal and hit Bulgaria?! Is this the great success of the fight against corruption?! For 350 euros found, unmarked, we made the most spectacular scandal in Bulgaria. Who needed this?! And all the middlemen they talk about, who do they work for? Let us ask the services: who do these intermediaries work for in Macedonia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Ukraine and so on? Do their services work in Macedonian, Serbian, Ukrainian, and report people who submit documents for citizenship? Do they work for the Bulgarian services, or do they work for both the other services and therefore no one bothers them for 20 years?! [[Noise and lines.]] Why didn't you answer that question? [[Noise and lines from.]] Why not answer this question, and the easiest is to blame, naturally, IMRO, Karakachanov. However, I can stand, as can any head of IMRO, a lie detector and there to answer whether IMRO has taken a lev, a penny of any Bulgarian from abroad. Yes, you are! Thirty years IMRO has only given and given more than the Bulgarian state! And all of these, not to offend them, they're not in the room, there will be no penalty, I guess...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u172	I guess there will be. There will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u173	All those who go out and on the back of a 125-year-old organization make their image and spit, from all to one we will seek justice and retribution. Long live Bulgaria! IMRO will survive all the blows because we have suffered far greater blows from both the Turkish state and the Serbian state and the Greek state, but we have survived and will not surrender. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u174	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Dear Members of Parliament, we are returning to the report on the bill under consideration. Mrs. Stoyanova, will you introduce us to the contents of § 36 of the Bill? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u175	According to § 36, an offer by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 40, following the words "Art." 55, para. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees is added. The text relates to what we just voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u176	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the proposal from Parliament's representative Cornelia Ninova, not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 45, against 59, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for the version of § 36, which becomes § 40. They voted 121 MPs: 79, against 42, abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u177	According to § 37 under the importing proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. in Art. 1. 74, para. 1, t. 3 the words "the holder of the relevant customs office" shall be replaced by the "the director of the relevant territorial directorate." 2. in art. 264 para. 2 is amended as follows: The transfer of ownership of motor vehicles shall be carried out after verification of the information exchange system maintained by the Ministry of Finance under art. 5a of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for Payed Vehicle Tax, as well as a written declaration from the transferor that there are no outstanding, subject to enforcement other obligations on taxes, duties, compulsory social security contributions or other public obligations relating to the motor vehicle. Provided that the municipality concerned has not provided a continuous automated exchange of information, the verification of paid vehicle tax may be carried out by submitting a document issued or certified by the municipality. 3. Paragraph 2c shall be inserted in the Additional Provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. For the purpose of the collection of public claims, the Council of Ministers shall designate the authorising officers with a budget who shall notify the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency of their contracts and upcoming payments under them, the scope of the information to be provided, the order and manner of granting it and the conditions for making the payments. 4. In the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...), in § 9 the words ".31 December 2018" shall be replaced by.30 June 2022...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for § 37. It supports the text of the importer and proposes an amendment to the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 88, against 22, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u179	The Commission proposes to establish § 42: .............................................................................. Until the end of 2028 obligations under art. 162, para. 2, p. 8 and 9 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code of Municipalities may be deferred or deferred by the competent authority which established the obligation at the request of the municipality concerned in accordance with an approved repayment plan for a period of three years. The legal interest shall be due for the period of deferral or reschedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u180	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the wording of § 42 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 82, against 25, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u181	According to § 38 the proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: In § 38, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 3 et c. 21 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. 3. The proposal for t. 21 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 38, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 is created t. 8 and 9: It's 8 o'clock. the persons requesting the refund of excise duty; 9. the persons for whom a solidarity responsibility arises; (b) the creation of para. 4. In the case of art. 20, para. 2, p. 23 jointly responsible for the payment of the excise duty are: 1. in case of exemption from excise duty: (a) the person who has used energy products for purposes other than those for which excise duty exemption has been granted in the case of art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 26, para. 2 and (b) the authorised warehousekeeper who released the energy products for consumption when he knew or was obliged to know that the energy products supplied to the person under the letter 24, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 26, para. 2 and this has been demonstrated by the revised authority in accordance with Article 2. 117 - 120 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 2. in the event of the refund of excise duty: (a) the person who has used energy products for purposes other than those for which exemption from excise duty has been granted in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 26, para. 2, and (b) the person to whom the excise duty on the energy products supplied to the person referred to in (a) is refunded when he knew or was obliged to know that the energy products supplied to the person under (a) shall be used outside the conditions for exemption from excise duty in the cases referred to in Article 1. 24, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 26, para. 2 and this has been demonstrated by the revised authority in accordance with Article 2. 117 - 120 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 are created t. 64 and 65: It's 64. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Goods with a collector's value shall not be considered to be excise goods produced in a specialised small distillery facility within the meaning of this point. 8. 65. Another person with legal interest is a person who should protect his rights and legitimate interests with a view to avoiding adverse legal consequences in his legal field or affecting specific property rights in terms of changing the legal situation of the interested persons, which could result from a certain action or omission by the person liable to claim a warehousekeeper, in the context of the suspension of a license to manage a tax warehouse. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." dried, flat, irregular-shaped, partially regurgitated tobacco leaves, undergoing drying and controlled moisturizing processes that contain glycerin and are suitable for smoking after simple manipulation by crushing or manual cutting. (b) the creation of para. 9. The competent customs office shall, at the location of the establishment in order and in such a way as to determine the rules for the enforcement of the law, declare that fact to the competent customs office in the order and manner specified by the rules for the application of the law. ............................................... 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 9 shall be added at the end, with the exception of the goods for which an authorisation has been granted under art. 53, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (b) c. 21 the words "in violation of this law' shall be replaced by "the found to be'; (c) create a t. 23: "23." the consumption of energy products for purposes other than those for which exemption from excise duty has been used in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 26, para. 2. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 3 is finally added as well as with CN codes from 2711 12 11 to 2711 19 00 in packages within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act up to 5 kg. (b) in para. 2: (aa) c. 6 shall be added, with the exception of energy products produced in the same tax warehouse and used in the production of other energy products intended for purposes other than motor fuel and heating fuel; (bb) The creation of a t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. used by a person who has received a certificate under art. 24b, para. 4 for the purposes specified in the certificate and purchased as released for consumption under art. 20, para. 2, p. 9, following an authorisation by the Director of the Customs Agency. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a, para. 6 is created t. 13: "13." Declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners and/or shareholders on the circumstances under para. 7. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 14 after the word "inregularities', the recovery requests under this section shall be added. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." for beer, including aromatic beer, the quantity of specifics for the initial extract premium; (b) c. 8 the word "Species" is replaced by "Specified" is replaced by "Specified" and "Specified" is replaced by "Specified" is replaced by "Specified" (c) c. 12 the word "Species' is replaced by "Specified'. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 44 (b) of the Law on The act may also be paid by: 1. another person other than the person under para. 1, with the written consent of the debtor; 2. the owner of the goods that is resident in the tax warehouse, upon termination of the tax warehouse management licence, after the authorisation of the Director of the Customs Agency is granted; 3. another person other than the persons under item 3. 1 and 2, upon suspension of the licence for management of a tax warehouse, when it proves legal interest, following an authorisation issued by the Director of the Customs Agency. 10. Section VIII with Article 3 shall be established in Chapter 3. Art. 45g and Section IX with art. 45h: Section VIII Special order to notify the customs authorities of excise goods of a collector's value Art. 45g. (1) In the case of the acquisition of bottled alcoholic beverages of collector value subject to banderol, a notice shall be made in paper form to the competent customs office at the location of the establishment/place where the goods will be stored. (2) The notification shall be made in advance but not later than three days after the acquisition of the excise goods. (3) Within seven days of their acquisition, excise goods shall be entered into a tax warehouse for the placing of Banderol where required. Upon expiry of the Banderola, a new Banderol shall not be applied. (4) Acoustic goods of collector value may be stored in establishments or premises related to business only if they are with Banderol and they have been notified in accordance with para. 1. A copy of the registered notification and the documents attached to it should be kept at the premises. (5) The movement of excise goods under para. 1 shall be accompanied by a copy of the registered notification. (6) The procedure for submitting the notification shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (7) Alinei 1 s 6 shall also apply to a limited series of cigars for which persons have submitted a certificate by a producer for their collector's value. Section IX Registers Art. 45z. (1) The Office shall keep records of the issued licenses for the management of a tax warehouse, certificate of registrations and authorisations. (2) The registers shall contain information on the status of the issued licenses for the management of a tax warehouse, certificate of registrations and authorisations which is public. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) A licensed oil and/or petroleum products holder within the meaning of the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products shall have permanently attached own or leased storage vessels: 1. of oil and/or petroleum products with minimum capacity of the warehouse 1000 cubic. m and minimum design capacity of each container 50 cc. m, except bio-component storage vessels and additives to improve fuel quality; or 2. of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) with a minimum capacity of 50 cc. m. (b) Paragraph 3 shall be created. 5. (5) The requirements of para. 4 shall not apply to authorised warehousekeepers carrying out activities related to: 1. demand, exploration and extraction of oil, natural gas and condensate from natural gas; 2. processing of used tyres and plastic products; 3. recovery or disposal within the meaning of the Energy Product Waste Management Act with the Combined Nomenclature code 2710 91 and 2710 99. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 t. 8 is repealed; (b) in para. 2: (aa) create t. 6a: 6a. a copy of the authorisation to put the site into regular operation or other document certifying its purpose issued by the relevant competent authority (s); (bb) point 14 is repealed; (c) point 21 is amended as follows: ..21. a document demonstrating that the distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks have been acquired: (a) by a person registered under the Wine and Spirits Act; or (b) after a public sale, or (c) by a person who has operated the distillation facilities as a licensed warehousekeeper or registered person under art. 57, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (dd) To be established. 22: "22." declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders of the circumstances under art. 47, para. 3. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 6 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1, t. 9 words as well as other persons authorised to sign electronic administrative documents shall be deleted. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 3 after the word "supplier" shall be added from the date of its issue. (b) the creation of para. 5.. In the case of a decision to terminate a licence which has not been suspended in advance when an excise goods exporter is the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks Agency, the Director of the Customs Office may issue an authorisation for the removal of those goods and their entry into another tax warehouse. When the goods are introduced into the other tax warehouse, they are considered to have been placed under suspension of excise duty. (6) Within 7 days at the request of the persons referred to in art. 44, para. 2, p. 2 or 3 The Director of the Customs Agency shall issue a permit or refusal to pay. The act shall be communicated only to the persons referred to in Article 1. 44, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within three days of its service. The Court of Justice shall rule by a 30-day order which shall not be subject to appeal. (7) For goods released for consumption under art. 20, para. 2, p. 9 a person who has received a certificate under art. 24b, para. 4 may submit a request to the Director of the Customs Agency for the issue of an authorisation for exemption from excise duty in the event of the release of goods released for consumption and their introduction into the object of the excise-free end-user. Within 7 days of the submission of the request, the Director of the Customs Agency shall issue an authorisation or refuse to grant an authorisation. The authorisation to remove the goods and to place them at the premises of the excise-free end-user shall be notified to the person making the request and to the authorised warehousekeeper. The refusal shall be communicated only to the person who submitted the request and shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within three days of its service. The Court of Justice shall rule by a 30-day order which shall not be subject to appeal. (8) In the case of movement of the goods under para. The same shall also be accompanied by the authorisation of the Director of the Customs Agency. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "In the case of an independent certificate for registration of an independent small brewery and overturned annual production of 200,000 units of beer for the current year, the excise rate under art. 31, para. 1, t. 1 for all quantity produced during the year. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: For the issue of an independent small brewery registration certificate, a request shall be submitted to the Director of the Customs Agency by: 1. a person who has not produced beer; 2. a person who has produced beer whose production at the date of submission of the request does not exceed 200,000 specifics of beer for the current year. (c) in para. 6, p. 2 is amended as follows: 2. in the cases referred to in art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the (d) in para. 8 shall be added at the end, including in the case of a certificate served after a cancellation of the issue of the certificate. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: sc) Owners or tenants of sites under art. 56, para. 1 may be persons: 1. registered under the Commercial Law, the Co-operatives Act or under the law of a Member State of the European Union, or of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as legal persons established on the basis of a regulatory act; 2. which do not have public obligations collected by the customs authorities, tax obligations and obligations for compulsory social contributions, with the exception of obligations under outstanding acts, as well as deferred, deferred or secured obligations; 3. who have not committed a serious or repeated infringement under this law, except where the administrative criminal proceedings have ended with the conclusion of an agreement. (b) in para. 3 t. 9 is amended as follows: Nine. a document demonstrating that the distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks have been acquired: (a) by a person registered under the Wine and Spirits Act; or (b) after a public sale or (c) by a person who has operated the distillation facilities as a licensed warehousekeeper or registered person under para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: (c) New para. are created. 4 and 5. When the documents submitted under para. 3 do not comply with the requirements or information provided is insufficient, the Head of Customs shall, within 14 days of the submission of the documents, inform the person submitting the application and set a period of 14 days for the removal of irregularities or for the provision of additional information as from receipt of the notification. (5) Within the term defined under para. 4, the person must remove irregularities or provide the necessary additional information and, in the event of failure to comply with this obligation, the customs chief shall issue a decision terminating the proceedings. The decision to terminate the proceedings shall be subject to appeal under Chapter 10a, Section IV of the Administrative Procedure Code. (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it the words by para. A third sentence shall be deleted and created: a certificate of registration or refusal to issue a registration certificate shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (e) the current para. 5 becomes para. 7); (f) the current para. 6 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No (g) the current para. 7 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: (h) the current para. Paragraphs 8 and 9 become paras 8 and 9 respectively. 10 and 11. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57b, para. 6 is created t. 10: ..10. declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders of the circumstances under art. 57a, para. 8..................................................... 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 7 is repealed; (b) To be created t. 19: "19." Declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders on the circumstances under para. 12. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 8 is repealed; (b) To be created t. 16: ..16. Declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders on the circumstances under para. 7. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 t. 5 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. declarations by owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders of the circumstances under art. 58c, para. 3. 22. In Chapter 4, Section IV is created art. 64a: Art. 64a. (1) Wrongly drawn up and registered request, inventory and report for Banderoles may be cancelled at the written request of the person. The request for Banderoli may be cancelled before it is sent to the Department of Securities Printing and the Ministry of Finance. The sign for the return of Banderols may be revoked before action has been taken to establish the authenticity of the Banderols. (2) The request for cancellation shall be submitted to the Head of the competent customs office. (3) Outside the cases under para. 1 at the request of the person, discrepancies in the request for Banderols or the description of the return of Banderols may be removed from the competent customs office notified to the person within 14 days of the removal of the non-compliance. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 3, p. 2 shall finally be added to the person referred to in Article 2. 45g. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 4 after the word "actions" shall be added as well as duties for the payment of excise duties in relation to art. 20, para. 2, p. 9s and a comma. 25. Section I of Chapter Five establishes art. 81c and 81d: Art. 81c. (1) The customs authorities may seal the premises or part thereof in full or in part of the security provided for the management of a tax warehouse for a period of one month. (2) For the actions under para. 1 a report shall be drawn up, a copy of which shall be made available to the person. (3) Until the expiry of the term under para. 1 The customs authority may request from the regional court at the location of the establishment the extension of the sealing period. The Court of Justice shall rule on the day of receipt of the request in closed session by order, setting a time limit for sealing. The order is not subject to appeal. (4) If until the expiry of the term under para. 1 The regional court has not authorised an extension of the time limit, the sealing is deemed to be terminated. After the expiry of the time limits under para. 1 and 3 sealing shall be considered terminated. (5) The actions for sealing of the object or part thereof shall be terminated provided that within the time limits laid down in para. 1 or 3 The licensed warehousekeeper shall be aligned with the requirements of art. 77 of the law. Art. 81. (1) Actions for the sealing of the establishment or part thereof may be appealed within 14 days of their execution to the customs chief at the location of the establishment, which shall be decided by a reasoned decision within three days of the complaint being received. In the decision, the customs chief may dismiss or respect the complaint by ordering the suspension of the action under appeal. (2) The decision ordering the suspension shall be implemented within the time limit specified therein by the customs authority which has taken them. (3) In the event of non-export of the organ under para. 1 within the time limit laid down or in the event of rejection of the appeal, actions for sealing of the site may be appealed within 7 days of the expiry of the period under para. 1 respectively, from receipt of the decision before the administrative court on the location of the tax warehouse in respect of their legality. The Court of Justice shall rule within 7 days by a definition which shall not be subject to appeal. (4) The complaint shall not stop actions to seal the object or part thereof. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83d, para. 1 words under the customs legislation shall be deleted. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: A tax document shall be issued on the date on which: 1. excise goods shall be released for consumption within the meaning of art. 20, para. 2 for each recipient and for each vehicle, except for the cases referred to in art. 20, para. 2, p. 5, t. 15.. 18; 2. there have been a lack of Banderols, in the cases referred to in Article 2. 64, para. 18; 3. are released for consumption liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in heating bottles sold to natural persons who are not sole traders by issuing generalized excise tax documents for the sales carried out on the relevant day and the quantities sold are necessarily indicated in a separate order. (b) in para. 8 words up to the 10th of the month following the month shall be replaced by the 10th day period from the expiry of the tax period. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90b, para. 1 the word "Supports" is replaced by "Stations for charging motor vehicles." 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 3 is created sentence two: "Forbiddenness does not apply to alcoholic beverages under art. 45g with an expired banderol. (b) in para. 2, p. 2 is created sentence two: "Forbiddenness does not apply to tobacco products under art. 45g with an expired banderol. (c) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: It shall be prohibited to publish notices and communications, including in electronic form, by which excise goods are offered for sale, as well as tobacco waste under para. 2, p. 6. The prohibition shall not apply to traders offering alcoholic beverages via an electronic shop within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 87 of the Additional Provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, where goods are covered by Banderol, where such is compulsory, or the excise duty payable is paid. (d) a new para shall be created. 8. In the case of para. 7 where the information has not been removed within three days of its publication, the Director of the Customs Agency shall issue a decision to suspend the infringement by suspending (blocking) the access to the relevant websites on which the advertisements/reports have been published; (e) the creation of para. 9.. 16: The decision under para. 8 shall be published on the website of the Customs Agency on the date of its issue. The faces under para. 7 as well as persons providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall be deemed to have been notified on the day of publication. (10) The suspension period (blocking) of access to the websites is from 7 days to one month. (11) Where within 7 days of the publication of the decision under para. 8 information on the sale of prohibited excise goods and tobacco waste has not been removed, the Director of the Office of Customs and a person empowered by it shall request the President of the Sofia District Court to order all persons providing public electronic communications networks and/or services to suspend (block) temporarily access to the relevant websites. (12) The President of the Sofia District Court or the Vice-President appointed by him shall rule on the request within 72 hours of his entry, setting the deadline under para. 10. The order issued by the court shall be published on the website of the Customs Agency on the date of its receipt. (13) Persons providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall be obliged to stop (block) access to the relevant websites within 24 hours of the publication of the order of the court. (14) The persons referred to in para. 13 are required to store information about the date and time at which it is stopped (blocked) access to the websites, domain and IP addresses of blocked websites, as well as information on the receipt of blocked pages by users of public electronic communications networks and/or services. To verify the execution of the order of the court, when stopping (blocking) access to the websites, persons shall draw up a digital photo (screenshot) of the screen format preserved in PDF format or in any similar file format guaranteeing its impossible manipulation. (15) Information and digital photos under para. 14 shall be kept within one year from the date of publication of the order under para. 12. (16) Alinea 8 shall also apply when the person under para. 7 cannot be established or the service for publication of advertisements/messages is provided from a place outside the country. (f) the current para. 8 becomes para. 17 and amended as follows: Where necessary as evidence, information on persons offering excise goods and tobacco waste through advertisements/messages under para. 6, as well as the information and digital photos under para. 14 shall be made available at the request of the customs authorities. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) The following shall be amended as follows: supplied by the postal network of excise goods and tobacco waste is prohibited. The prohibition shall not apply to excise goods with paid, charged or secured excise duty, excise goods with Banderol, where required, as well as to tobacco waste sent between traders in connection with their normal activity. (2) When performing postal services relating to excise goods and tobacco waste, submiters shall be obliged to provide consignments to the postal operator for examination and verification. No admission, transfer and delivery through the postal network of prohibited excise goods and tobacco waste under para. 1. (3) Senders shall be obliged to submit an identity document and to fill in a declaration to the postal operator that the excise goods they send are paid, charged or secured, and that they are covered by Banderol when required. A declaration shall also be required when sending tobacco waste under art. 12, para. 4 by indicating the recipient's identity and the purpose of the demand. (b) the creation of para. 9. In carrying out control purchases where the goods will be delivered through the postal network, the customs authorities may require specific actions from postal operators under para. 6................................................ 31. Article 7 shall be inserted in Chapter 7. 101b: Art. 101b. (1) It shall be prohibited to remove excise goods from a tax warehouse in the event of a decision to terminate a licence which has not been suspended from its prior execution without payment of the excise duty due. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply in the case of art. 53, para. 5 and 7. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the word "supplier' shall be added either by their transmission to the customs authorities. (b) in para. 2 after the word "Signature".. or after the entry into force of the judgment for annulment of the offence................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 is created. 6: supposed to violate the provisions of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. A penalty of 3,000 to 10 000 BGN is punishable by a penalty of 16 000 BGN. In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be from 5000 to 15 000 BGN. 34. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 123d: Art. 123. (1) Person who violates the provisions of art. 101b, shall be punished with a fine for natural persons, the double amount of excise duty due, but not less than 1000 BGN, or with a penalty charge for legal persons and sole traders, the double amount of excise duty due, but not less than 2000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the fine is in the double amount of excise duty, but not less than 2000 BGN, and the penalty charge is in the double amount of excise duty, but not less than 4000 BGN........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 2 after the word 36. Throughout the law, the words...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u182	I'm sorry. Please, let's interrupt the report, let's vote on § 38. We'll continue right away. It's long enough. Are there any statements on the reported § 38 of the Commission Report? If there is no statement, we will proceed to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev in the part which is not supported by the Commission, and this is: 3 of § 38, drop out. They voted 106 MPs: 3 against 31, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the wording of § 38 in the version proposed in the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u183	They voted 107 MPs: for 73, against 29, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u184	The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 44 - 49: ..................................................... (1) Until the entry into force of the act granting a licence for the management of a tax warehouse or the refusal to issue it, the producers of excise goods under art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses which submit a request for licensing until 1 April 2019 shall continue to operate under this Act as authorised warehouse holders. (2) Persons engaged in the processing of tobacco leaves which do not contain glycerin welded on 1 January 2019 shall be obliged to submit a declaration under art. 12, para. 9 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses by 31 January 2019 § 45. Within 1 July 2019, the Director of the Customs Agency shall change the information contained in the issued tax warehouse management licences concerning the deletion of persons authorised to sign electronic administrative documents. § 46. By 1 July 2019 the customs authorities shall change the information contained in the certificates issued for a registered consignee, a temporary registered consignee and a registered consignor on the deletion of persons authorised to sign electronic administrative documents. § 47. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, persons who have acquired excise goods with collector value before 1 January 2019 and who are subject to Banderol adhesive shall be obliged to submit a notification in accordance with art. 45g, para. 1 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses to the competent customs office at the location of the establishment/place where the goods will be stored. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, excise goods shall be entered into a tax warehouse for the placing of Banderol, where required. (3) The collectible goods may be stored in establishments in which business is carried out only with Banderol and if they have been notified in accordance with para. 1. A copy of the registered notification and the documents attached to it shall be kept at the premises. § 48. By 1 July 2019, the persons referred to in Article 1 (1) shall: 57 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses shall comply with the requirements of art. 57, para. 1, t. 2 of the same law. § 49. Within 1 July 2019 the Customs Agency shall change the information contained in the public registers in accordance with art. 45z, para. 2 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 44 - 49 with a text, according to the Commission's proposal. They voted 114 MPs: 83, against 20, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u186	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 39, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In the Customs Act (amend., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The Customs Agency is structured in Central Customs Office and territorial Directorates. The general and specialised administration of the Central Customs Office shall be organised in Directorates. Main Directorates may be established in the Central Customs Office. The Directorate-General may establish territorial units which are headed by the Director-General of the Directorate-General and are not included in the structure of the territorial and territorial sectors. (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The territorial directorate shall be structured in territorial management and customs offices and/or customs posts. The common and specialised administration of territorial management is organised in departments and sectors. (c) in para. 7 the words "The territorial customs office" shall be replaced by "The territorial government" and the word "the customs office" shall be replaced by "the territorial office." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence of the sentence is replaced by the following: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) New para. are created. 4 and para. 5. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 10, para. 12. Legal relations with the directors of the territorial departments may be terminated without notice by the Director of the Customs Agency at his discretion, in agreement with the Minister of Finance. (5) The Director-General of the Directorates-General and Directors of Directorates of the Specialized Administration of Central Customs Office shall be appointed by the Director of the Customs Agency, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, without applying art. 10, para. 12. The legal relationship with the principal directors of the Directorates General and Directors of the Directorates of the Specialised Administration of Central Customs Management may be terminated without notice by the Director of the Customs Agency at his discretion, in agreement with the Minister of Finance. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 6. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 a new sentence is created second: the customs officials, who are customs authorities within the meaning of the law, can only be persons who are not accused or who are not convicted of a deliberate crime of general character, and the previous sentence becomes the third sentence. (b) para. 6 is amended as follows: All customs officials, except those holding technical posts, shall submit declarations of property and interests under art. 35 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property within the time limits, under the terms and conditions of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. (c) a new para shall be created. 11: The participation of a government office in the " Customs" Agency shall not be preceded by a centralised stage of competition under art. 10, para. 1 of the Civil Service Act. (d) The current para. 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 become respectively. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. The second sentence is created: The Head Directors of the General Directorates may be assisted by the Deputy Director-General. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 5 the words "the territorial customs office" shall be replaced by "the territorial government." 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84b, para. 1 the words "the territorial customs offices' shall be replaced by "the territorial offices'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186, para. 6 the words "the territorial customs office" shall be replaced by "the territorial government." 9. In § 1, t. 25, point (c) of the additional provision, the words "the territorial customs offices' shall be replaced by "the territorial offices'. 10. Throughout the law, the words "the customs officers".........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The new § 50 texts make very scandalous amendments. Now I'm going to read them to you, because the way people read the report, people get sleepy. In the new members, I'll start backwards, in art. 10, para. 11: The entry of a government office in the Office of Customs is not preceded by a centralised stage of competition under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on the Civil Service Officer. What does art. 10 of the Civil Service Act? Art. 10. (1) The entering of a public service in the relevant administration shall be necessarily preceded by a contest involving a centralised stage and a decentralised stage. (2) The appointment of each office of a civil servant shall be carried out through competition based on professional qualities. And how do we respond to competition through professional qualities when we cancel the centralised stage of the competition? So far, how have the competitions been going at the Customs Agency? The Department of the Ministry of Customs issued a competition for the posts at all customs posts and offices. The second, in art. 10, para. 1 A new sentence is created: The customs officials, who are customs authorities within the meaning of the law, can only be persons who are not attracted as defendants................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How many higher positions are there who are accused, and they stand in these positions, and a customs officer who is accused cannot be in this position, which to me is extremely scandalous. and in art. 9, para. 5 it is said that the principal directors of principal directorates and directors of directorates can be appointed without competition, but only with coordination with the Minister of Finance, without applying art. 10, para. 12. The directors may also be terminated without notice by the Director of the Customs Agency. So, if a director has his own opinion and does not comply with the policy or opinion of his superior, he may be removed without notice of these amendments proposed in the new § 50. I think that these amendments should not be adopted because they violate the rights of everyone who is in the structure of the state administration. This is about the Customs Agency in their new territorial departments, which will then be established under § 64 of this law. They're scandalous, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We are going to vote on the proposal for an amendment proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 39, which becomes § 50. They voted 107 MPs: 75, against 30, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u190	According to § 40 the proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 40, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142a is created. 7. In the register under para. 1 shall also be entered and the persons who have acquired distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirits shall: 1. after a public sale; 2. by a person who has acted with the distillation facilities as a licensed warehousekeeper or registered person under art. 57, para. 1 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142b al. 1 is amended as follows: The persons submitted an application to the Ministry of Economy for entry in the register: 1. before they start carrying out the activities under art. 142a, para. 1; 2. within 14 days of the acquisition of the distillation facilities in the case of a public sale; 3. within 14 days of the acquisition of the distillation facilities by a person who has operated with them as a licensed warehousekeeper or registered person under art. 57, para. 1 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Under § 41, there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov in § 41 to create the item. 2a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 41, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2: (aa) c. 4 the words "banderolls' and "banderolls' are deleted; (bb) The creation of a t. 5. It's five o'clock. in accordance with the technical standards laid down by Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2018/57 of 15 December 2017 on technical standards for protective elements applied to tobacco products (OJ L 96/57 of 16 April 2018.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). (b) the creation of para. 3 and 4: For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 1. The combination or combinations of authentication elements used in the security elements applied to consumer packaging intended for the implementation of the internal market shall be determined by order of the Minister of Finance. (4) The Customs Agency shall inform the manufacturers of tobacco products, the persons who import tobacco products into the territory of the country accordingly, of the protective elements applied to consumer packaging intended for the implementation of the internal market. 2. Article 10a is created in Chapter 10. 35f and 35x: Art. 35f. (1) Publisher of identifiers within the meaning of art. 3 (1) of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/574 of 15 December 2017 on technical standards for the establishment and operation of a tobacco traceability system (OB, L 96/7 of 16 April 2018)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/574" is the printery of the Bulgarian National Bank, which may also benefit from other subcontractors if necessary. (2) The publisher under para. 1 generates and issues unique identifiers for all consumer packs of cigarettes and smoking tobacco intended for placing on the market in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for cigarettes and tobacco produced in the Republic of Bulgaria when intended for export outside the European Union. (3) In the cases in which it is provided, the publisher under para. 1 generates and issues unique identifiers for consumer packaging of cigarettes and smoking tobacco intended for placing on the market in the territory of a Member State of the European Union. (4) If required, the publisher under para. 1 must generate and physically supply unique identifiers at consumer packaging level as an alternative to electronic delivery. (5) Unique identifiers under para. 2 - 4 are generated, transmitted and delivered within the time limits of art. 9 of Regulation (EU) 2018/574. Art. 35x. The competent authority responsible for the operation of the tobacco traceability system provided for in Regulation (EU) 2018/574, is the Customs Agency. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 3 words are replaced by the Head of Staff of the Ministry of Customs. 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 51e: Art. 51e. (1) The issuer of identifiers in case of infringement of art. 35f, para. 2 and/or para. 3 is punished with a penalty from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 penalty is from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." authorised by the Director of the Customs Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Article 46 concerning Art. 46 Art. 32, 35p 35th, para. 1.. 4 and para. Art. 9, Art. Art. 35y, Art. Art. 49, Art. 51e;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 40 by importer, which shall become § 51, and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 41 by importer which shall become § 42. Vote 109 MPs: 79, against 28, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u192	Under § 42, there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 42, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Duty-Free Trade (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2 words are replaced by the Head of Staff of the Ministry of Customs. 2. in art. 22 is created. 5. For the purposes of applying art. 35y, al. 3 of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, in the cases referred to in art. 18, para. 3 cigarettes and tobacco for the manual compression of cigarettes, intended for commercial establishments licensed for duty-free trade, are only sold on the consumer packaging of Banderol according to a model approved by the Minister of Finance. 3. In the annex to art. 19th para. 2 the words the Head of the Customs Office shall be replaced by the Head of the Ministry of Customs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 42 by importer, which shall become § 53. They voted 114 MPs: 84, against 29, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u194	The following amendments shall be made to the Members of Parliament, Hristian Mitev and Yordan Apostolov, § 43: A new item is added. 2 containing: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 letter (s) is replaced by 4 000 000 (s) and 2 000 (s) is replaced by 4 000 (s). 2. In para. 1 letter (b) is replaced by 8 000 000 (b) and 4 000 (b) is replaced by 8 000 (b) and 4 000 (b) is replaced by 8 000 (c). 3. Al. 2 and 3 are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Kanev and Dragomir Stoynev is created a new item. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the letter (s), the number (s) shall be replaced by the number (s) 4 000 000. (b) in point (b) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v); (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 3. Al. 2 and 3 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 43, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 para. 3 is amended as follows: The financial statements shall state the names of the persons referred to in para. 2. The entity's stamp and stamp of the accounting entity shall be affixed only if required by another law. 2. Article 34 is amended as follows: Art. 34. (1) Enterprises shall draw up their financial statements on the basis of National Accounting Standards. (2) Consolidated financial statements of undertakings whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on the regulated market in a Member State of the European Union shall be drawn up on the basis of International Accounting Standards. (3) The undertakings under para. 1 may choose to draw up their annual financial statements on the basis of International Accounting Standards. (4) Enterprises which draw up their annual financial statements on the basis of International Accounting Standards may switch to their compilation on the basis of National Accounting Standards. (5) No change of the accounting base (the applicable accounting standards) shall be allowed in accordance with this law more than once. (6) Consolidated and interim financial statements shall be drawn up on the basis of the accounting standards on the basis of which the annual financial statements of the undertaking which draw up the consolidated or intermediate financial statements, with the exception of the undertakings under para. 2. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 para. 2 is amended as follows: Despite paragraph 2 of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 1 the annual and consolidated financial statements of joint stock companies and command companies shall be subject to compulsory independent financial audit, except where the companies meet the conditions of art. 19th para. 2. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 2 words with public benefit status shall be deleted; (b) in para. 4 the words may not publish their profit and loss accounts and activity reports shall be replaced by at least a balance/report on the financial position and application where the entity has an obligation to prepare it; (c) in para. 9, p. 2 is amended as follows: "2." enterprises that did not operate during the reporting period. This circumstance shall be declared by a declaration to be published by 31 March of the following year as follows: (a) by the persons referred to in para. 1, t. 1 and 2 in the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities; fees under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities for the publication of the declaration are not due; (b) of the persons referred to in para. 1, t. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings, buildings, 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2, in the text before t. 1 is added at the end, (b) in para. 4 the words "costs' shall be deleted; (c) the creation of para. 6: In the case of disclosure of the information required under para. 1 and 2, undertakings may rely on national, EU or international rules, specifying which specific framework they have applied to. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, p. 1 the words "ecology and employees' shall be replaced by "art'. 48, para. One and two. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 words.............................................................................. 48, para. The following points are inserted after 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the word "S' is replaced by "S' and after the word "S', the words "S' shall be added by law and the report shall comply with the requirements of this Law "S' shall be replaced by "S' as set out in Annex to Commission Implementing Decision (EU)' of 28 October 2016 on the equivalence of the requirements of certain third countries for reporting on payments to governments with the requirements of Chapter 10 of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 295/82 of 29 October 2016).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u195	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kanev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u196	Colleagues, I will try to be very brief, all the more so that it is about some not very serious problem. With my colleague Stoynev and fellow MPs from the European Union, we have a proposal under the Accounting Act, where we are trying to ease the so-called micro and small companies. We had some co-operations with colleagues in advance. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and I could not reach a single solution, but we didn't have a fight. In Bulgaria there are the most restrictive thresholds and the mandatory audit of micro and small companies, and since the thresholds are four times more restrictive than those in the European Union, because it is about what we offer for over 6 thousand micro and small companies, because the fisk does not need any of these audits.. Half of the colleagues in this room have had contact with companies, work, tell me one case in which someone will come and ask you for audit especially for micro and small companies? Currently there are over 400,000 companies working in Bulgaria.. 98% of them are micro and small companies. I don't want to mix things up, but I have to tell you that whenever it comes time for elections, the topic "small and medium-sized enterprises" is a political gum that is constantly stretching until the elections pass. After that, we basically stay in the same boat. For a reason, Bulgaria has been moving around 80th in the World Bank's ranking to doing business and, at the same time, Macedonia is already in the first ten. At one of the last meetings, we had guests - Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Finance - and we agreed - because the Commission is on economic policy and tourism, but apart from purely legal activity, the Commission is also dealing with the problems of the business environment, we want in December or rather in January to get information, as many things are accepted and it is not clear what the effect of them is. I'd like to know what the weekend tax effect is? How did it get in, how did it get in, because we drove the business crazy? I'd like to know ten years ago, at Simeon Djankov, we put a tax on deposits, on interest rates. How much do we collect, what do we collect? I'd like to know why, for another year, we're canceling a garbage charge? You do understand that this is a huge burden of business?! You understand that by tax assessment, we relieve the mayors, but we stop the business? This was supposed to happen next year. We decided after the mayor's election, come on, the mayors will win. Now we postpone it for 2021. Mrs. Stoyanova said that we will postpone it for even further. I want to know about an old proposal. Someone's got to make the estimates for accelerated depreciation of buildings. You know, 25 years is a hell of a lot. The subject of small and medium-sized enterprises is extremely important and we will not run away from it. This is one of the votes, Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Mrs. Stoyanova disagrees. However, I ask you: understand that this vote is important for all small and medium-sized companies, especially those 6,000 companies that concern them. Once again, I rely on the sanity of all of you who are in this room. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the proposals that we have made with our colleagues Apostolov, Mr. Kanev and Mr. Stoynev are identical. I will give further reasons to what my colleague Kanev has already said. It is the criteria laid down in the Accounting Act for carrying out an independent financial audit that create disproportionate financial and administrative opportunities for small and micropredictive burdens. In transposition of Directive 2013/34/EU, no account has been taken of the objectives outlined in the considerations for its adoption. The regulatory mechanisms in the Directive are in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when introducing an administrative burden, but the national law does not comply with them. The creation of a favourable environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is fundamental to the economic development of each Member State. It is not for a reason that everyone is defined as the backbone of the European economy. The data contained in the annual review of the Small Business Act for the Republic of Bulgaria are also crucial in formulating national policies towards small and medium-sized enterprises. The 2017 review states that small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99,8% of the total number of enterprises providing 75,2% of the country's employment. Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings introduce obligations for Member States to ensure that the financial statements of undertakings operating in the public interest and of medium and large undertakings are audited by one or more statutory auditors or audit firms. At the same time, the Directive recommends to the Member States, I quote: The annual financial statements of small enterprises should not be subject to that audit obligation, as the audit may constitute a significant administrative burden for this category of undertakings, while in many small enterprises the same persons are both shareholders and managers and therefore do not need that third party to ensure the reliability of the financial statements. That's what the European Commission said, not me. The Act on Accounting defines the type of enterprises according to their size in Chapter 2 "Categories Enterprises and Groups of Enterprises" and Section I "Categories and Enterprises" where in para. 3 of art. 19 are defined as undertakings which, on 31 December of the current reporting period, do not exceed at least two of the following indicators: first, the book value of the assets BGN, net sales revenue BGN, average number of staff for the reporting period 50 people. The national legislative body has provided for a much wider range of entities to be subject to mandatory auditing. The accounting law requires independent financial audit of small enterprises which, by 31 December of the current reporting period, exceed at least two of the following indicators: firstly, the book value of the assets is 2 million. BGN, net sales revenue is 4 million. lv. and the average number of staff for the reporting period is 50 people. The national implementing measure adopted four times exceeds the requirements of the Community act and does not in any way favour the effective application of Directive 2013/34/EU. On the contrary, it creates unjustified difficulties for small businesses in their activities. In Bulgaria, the audit of small enterprises is not required because of the specific conditions or needs of these enterprises and of the users of their financial statements, and the reason for the introduction of many lower thresholds of statutory audit of enterprises remains unclear. The rethinking of the regulatory obligations created for the administrative burden for small enterprises should be carried out taking into account the fact that they lead to the cost of economic resources and the involvement of human potential with which small enterprises do not have an argument in the direction of changing national measures and the objective of achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which also covers the reduction of administrative burden. Furthermore, recital 2 of the preamble to Directive 2013/34/EU also quotes the European Parliament resolution of 18 December 2008, according to which the accounting requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, micro-enterprises are often too burdensome for them, and the conclusion is the Commission's need for efforts to review those directives. The rights provided for in national law are significantly reduced in relation to the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises and the value criteria laid down in Directive 2013/34/EU. Instead of reducing the administrative burden and improving the regulatory framework, requirements are in fact disproportionate to the financial capabilities of small businesses. I think these are enough motives to support the proposals that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u200	I didn't mean to make a statement, but because the pre-speakers have said a few things that are not true, I would like to tell you very briefly what things look like from a factual point of view. Indeed, in Bulgaria 95% of enterprises are small compared to European criteria. The fact that Bulgarian audit thresholds are the lowest in Europe is not true and I will quote you on how things stand in European countries. The same audit thresholds as we have in Bulgaria are in absolute terms used in Slovakia and France. Lower than our audit thresholds are available in Estonia, Latvia, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Malta. It's in absolute values. However, if we take a percentage of the thresholds against gross domestic product, because this actually gives the real situation, we will see that our thresholds are higher than the thresholds in Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Great Britain. Those are the facts. What my fellow Members say is that this is an administrative burden, in no way do I agree that it is an administrative burden. If an undertaking has properly drawn up its report, whether it has taken account of the correct data, this is not an administrative burden. This is a form of control that supports both control bodies, so mostly users of this information through the commercial register where it is published. They used both the shareholders and the counterparties of these companies. There was an argument here that, you see, there is no need for an audit when the owner is one and, as they say, what will be audited for him? He's a sole owner, and no one needs that information. Right then is the most dangerous, because when we have Ltd or AD it is the owner who tells what to write in the reports so that the information is useful. And right there, and that is exactly the motive why these businesses cannot be excluded, as long as, of course, they enter the thresholds. So I'm asking you not to give in to false information that was just released here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u202	Ms. Stoyanova, I would disagree with you because it is the directive that recommends to the Member States that the annual financial statements of small enterprises should not be subject to those audit obligations, as the audit implies some administrative burden for them. Apart from assuming that an audit is being carried out as well as now on small companies. Tell me what this audit is helping these small companies!? With absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen, as the auditor's report is attached to the annual tax return, it goes to the tax offices, but it serves absolutely nothing to protect the firm, if, let's say, in certain checks irregularities are detected and the tax authorities do not take into account the auditor's report at all. That is to say, this report does not in any way support the activities of the company itself, nor does it assist other financial institutions. And banks in credit withdrawals don't take any information from the report. These are simply useless pages sewn to the file of the company concerned, without any use of this information or arising from rights and obligations, real, not as described in the Act of Auditors. In addition, with the proposed cancellation of para. 2 and 3 in art. 37 of the Law addresses unjustified, contrary to the Directive, requirements for compulsory independent financial audit based solely on the legal form of the legal person, regardless of the company. Those existing paragraphs create a regulatory absurdity by requiring even micro-enterprises to audit their accounts, if they are AD or Commanding AD, or subsidiaries of a parent company which prepares a consolidated financial statement in itself. At the same time, Mrs. Stoyanova, we must say that the directive recommends micro-enterprises with limited resources to Member States must meet high regulatory requirements. It should therefore be possible for Member States to exempt micro-enterprises from certain burdens and obligations applicable to small enterprises which would result in an unnecessary increase in their administrative burden without that. Colleagues, please support this joint proposal of ours, which also coincides with the proposal of BSP colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u203	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Yordan Apostolov. They voted 143 MPs: 56 against 40, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Petar Kanev and Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 142 MPs: 49, against 36, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 43 by importer, which shall become § 54. Vote 137 MPs: 99, Against 35, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u204	The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 55 and 56: ........... 55....................................................................... Until the expiry of the period for re-certification by registration in the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities of the Registry Agency under § 25 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities (Art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). annual financial statements and activity reports under the Accounting Act shall be published as 1. by 30 June of the current year the annual financial statements and the activity reports for the previous year in an economic edition or on the Internet, where the person does not have the conditions under point 1. The person must provide free free access to his published reports and reports and indicate on request the place where they are published. 2. Persons reregistered from 1 June 2018 to 31 May 2019 shall publish the accounts for 2017 and 2018 by 30 June 2019. 3. Persons reregistered from 1 June 2019 to 31 May 2020 shall publish the accounts for 2017, 2018 and 2019 by 30 June 2020. 4. Persons reregistered from 1 June 2020 to 31 December 2020 shall publish the accounts for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 by 30 June 2021. § 56. Article 34, para. 4 of the Accounting Act also applies to the annual financial statements for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 55 and 56 with a text according to the Commission proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 98, against 21, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u206	According to § 44 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 44: (a) To be created t. 10a: 10a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Standing" is added for the medicines included in the list of medicinal products that the National Health Insurance Fund pays, as well as for the medicines that are included in the list of medicinal products that the National Health Insurance Fund pays. 2. The creation of para. 3: The rate of taxation for the bread shall be five per cent. (b) To be created t. 16a: 16a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 1 the number "sixty thousand' is replaced by one hundred thousand. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 44, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 5 words................................................................................. 32, para. The information referred to in 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 is created. 8.. 11: The following conditions shall not apply to Alinea 6 when the following conditions are at the same time: 1. the supplier is established, has a permanent address or usual residence only in the territory of one Member State; 2. the services are provided to non-taxable persons who are established, have a permanent address or usual residence in Member States other than the Member State under point 2. 1; 3. the total value without VAT of the supplies under point 3. 2 shall not exceed in the current calendar year and has not exceeded in the previous calendar year EUR 10 000 or their equivalent in the national currency of the Member State in which it is established has a permanent address or usually resided supplier under point 2. 1; the equivalence in national currency shall be determined at the exchange rate published by the European Central Bank on 5 December 2017. (9) The place of delivery, which exceeds the threshold referred to in para. 8, p. 3 in the relevant calendar year shall be determined by para. 6. (10) A taxable person for whom the conditions laid down in para. 8, may choose to determine the place of execution under para. 6. In these cases, para. 6 shall apply until two calendar years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year of selection. (11) The right to choose under para. 10 by a supplier who is established has a permanent address or usual residence only in the territory of the country, shall be exercised in accordance with art. 156, para. 14 or under the registration rules for the purposes of value added tax of the Member State concerned, where the recipient is established, has a permanent address or a regular residence. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 26 is The tax base of the supply of goods or services provided against multi-purpose voucher shall be equal to the amount paid for the voucher or, in the absence of information on that amount, of the monetary value indicated on the voucher itself or in the related documentation, without the tax under that law relating to the goods or services supplied. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 1 is amended as follows: The tax base of the supply of goods under art. 6, para. 3 defined at the beginning of the month in which the goods are separated or provided is the tax base for the acquisition or cost of the goods, and in the case of imports of the tax base in the case of imports reduced by the cost of waste given the normal economic life of the goods. Where the tax base cannot be determined in that order, the tax base is the market price. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 is created. 12: ..12. other delivery of services to meet the immediate needs of: (a) vessels referred to in point (a) 2 except those referred to in point (d); (b) aircraft used by an air operator engaged primarily in international trips or rolling stock where services are provided in connection with international transport. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 is created t. "4." the conduct of mediation in international adoption under the Family Code. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1, t. 6 after the words "collective investment," the service provided by a tied agent to an investment firm in relation to the services and activities under art. 33 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, where these services and activities constitute financial services, and the provision of investment advices under the Financial Instruments Act. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 para. 2 is amended as follows: The tax base for intra-Community supplies under art. 7, para. 4 is the tax base under art. 27, para. 1 increased according to the order of art. 26, para. 3................................................ 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraphs 5 and 6 are inserted: supposed to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the (6) As regards imports for which he has exercised his right under para. 5, the importer shall charge the tax for the tax period during which the tax event under art. 54, on a tax base determined in accordance with art. 55, with a protocol such as: 1. include the amount of tax when determining the result for the relevant tax period in the statement referred to in Article 1. 125 for this tax period; 2. indicate the import customs document and reflect the amount of the tax in the sales log for the relevant tax period. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 2 the words the customs duties shall be replaced by the import duties. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) c. 2 the words in the cases where the tax is payable by the person as a liability under Chapter Eight shall be replaced by the words in the cases where the tax is payable by the recipient as a payer under art. 82 (c) and (d) (b) c. 4 is finally a comma and added to it. 1 and 4 (c) create a t. 10: ..10. hold a customs import document in which the person is designated as an importer and has complied with the requirements of art. 57, para. 6 in the cases referred to in art. 57, para. 5. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73a para. 1 is amended as In the case of supplies for which the tax is payable by the recipient, the right to deduct a tax credit is also available where the recipient has not complied with the requirements of art. 72 and/or the supplier of the goods has not issued a document and/or the recipient does not have a document under art. 71, p. 2, 4, 5 and 10 if the supply is not hidden and data about it is available in the accounts of the beneficiary. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2, p. 2 shall be added at the end, except where the subsequent registration of the person is within the time limit for the payment of the tax for the last tax period; 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79a is created. 8. For the purposes of the adjustment referred to in Article 5, the 20-year period shall, respectively, cease to run for each calendar year during which the goods, respectively, are not used for the activities referred to in Articles 69 and 70. The period shall be resumed for each calendar year during which the goods, respectively the immovable property shall be re-used for the activities referred to in art. 69 and 70. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79b is created For the purposes of the adjustment referred to in Article 5, the annual period shall cease to run for each calendar year during which the service that is or would be a long-term asset is not used for the activities referred to in Articles 69 and 70. The period shall be resumed for each calendar year in which the service is re-used for the activities referred to in art. 69 and 70.......................................................................................... 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 2: Where, for the last tax period, there is a result for the period of import tax, the person is obliged to submit the tax to the State budget at the expense of the responsible territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency by the end of the calendar month following the calendar month during which the reference for that tax period was to be submitted. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the title shall be amended as follows: "Instruction for the registration of taxable persons not established on the territory of the country in the case of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically with a place of execution within the territory of the country'; (b) in para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." supplies have a place of execution on the territory of the country. (c) the creation of para. 6: A person registered on the basis of this Article may choose to continue this registration by electronically notifying the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency within 7 days of the date of delivery of the first delivery for which the circumstances of art arise. 21, para. 8. The right to choose shall apply until two calendar years have elapsed from the beginning of the calendar year following the year of selection. 18. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 97c: The obligation of taxable persons established only on the territory of the country in the case of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically, with a place of execution within the territory of another Member State Art. 97c. A taxable person established only on the territory of the country and supplying telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically with recipients of the non-taxable persons who are established or have a permanent address or usually reside in another Member State and is not registered in the country for the application of a regime in the Union if he has exercised his right of choice under art. 21, para. 10 shall inform the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency within 7 days of the issuance of a VAT identification number by each Member State, by electronic means and in the cases of its withdrawal. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, t. 4 point (s) is amended as follows: s) termination of a legal person seller: (aa) without liquidation; (bb) with liquidation, unless the legal person chooses to remain registered until the date of its deletion from the trade register; the right to choose shall be exercised by submitting a declaration in the respective territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency within 14 days of the occurrence of the fact; in this case, the liquidator (s) shall be responsible jointly for the tax due during the liquidation period. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 2 the words "24 months' shall be replaced by "12 months'. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 1 shall be added at the end, unless the legal person chooses to remain registered until the date of its deletion from the trade repository. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111, para. 2, p. 5 words under art. 176 (b) are deleted. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. A third sentence shall be created: In the case of sales of goods or services through an electronic store, the fiscal/systemic bond registering the sale may be generated electronically and automatically provided at the electronic address of the recipient without issuing a paper document, in order and in a manner defined by the regulation under para. 4. (b) the creation of para. 19: The National Revenue Agency shall establish and maintain a public electronic list of electronic stores for which data under para. 4 t. 5. The list is available on the Agency's website. The order of entry and deletion from the list and its content shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 4. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 para. 9 is amended as The register referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 124, para. 7 shall be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code up to the 14th of the month following the calendar quarter to which it relates. 25. Article 14 is inserted in Chapter 14. 131a, 131b and 131c: ? voucher for a specific purpose Art. 131a. (1) The sale of a voucher for a specific purpose by a taxable person acting on his behalf shall be deemed to be the supply of the goods or services to which the voucher relates. (2) The sale of a voucher for a specific purpose by a taxable person acting on behalf of another taxable person shall be deemed to be the supply of the goods or services to which the voucher carried out by that other taxable person relates. (3) The actual provision of goods or the provision of services by the supplier to the person who has provided a voucher for a particular purpose as payment or part of payment for the receipt of such goods or services shall not be considered to be a supply. (4) Where a taxable person who has provided the goods or services against acceptance of a voucher for a particular purpose as payment or part of payment is a person other than the voucher issuer, there is a delivery to the voucher publisher during the delivery of the goods or services. Multi-purpose voucher Art. 131b. (1) The sale of a multi-purpose voucher by a taxable person acting on his behalf shall not be considered to be the supply of the goods or services to which the voucher relates. (2) The actual provision of goods or the provision of services by the supplier to the person who has provided a multi-purpose voucher as payment or part of payment for the receipt of such goods or services shall be delivery. (3) The sale of a multi-purpose voucher by a taxable person acting on behalf of another taxable person shall not be considered to be a supply made by that other taxable person. (4) The retention of a multi-purpose voucher after its expiry, without the actual provision of goods or services, shall not be considered to be the delivery of the goods or service. Vouchers - Special provisions Art. 131c. (1) Where remuneration for the service performed by a taxable person acting on behalf of another taxable person is agreed in relation to the sale of the voucher, there is a taxable supply of a service. (2) The provisions of art. 131a and 131b shall not apply to: 1. the instruments that give the holder the right to receive a discount when obtaining the goods or services, but do not give the right to receive the goods and services themselves. 2. tickets for travel, cinema, museum and others, stamps and the like. 3. food vouchers issued by a person authorised by the Minister of Finance in accordance with art. 209 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 t. 3 is repealed; (b) in para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a declaration that there is no registered office and address of management and no permanent establishment in the territory of the European Union; 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. the supplies under point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be subject to the following conditions: 1 which it carries out does not have the place of execution on the territory of the country. (b) in para. 7 after the words. 1, t. 1 "supplied' is added which has no place of execution within the territory of the country. (c) the creation of para. 14: Law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the Law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, and in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union'), and in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, 1 to register for the implementation of a regime in the Union there is also a taxable person registered on the basis of art. Art. 96, 98 or 100, para. 1 or 3 which makes deliveries with a place of execution under art. 21, para. 8 in the territory of the country if together with the 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 157th para. is "Signatures" on the basis of art. 156 person can apply para. 1, t. 3 when there are conditions under art. 21, para. 8..................................................... 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 159, para. 1 the word "use' is replaced by "identification'. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 159a, para. 2 the word "use' is replaced by "identification'. 31. Chapter 20 is created with art. 167a and 167b: ..Chapter 20........................................................................................................ Postponed import tax Conditions for deferred import tax Art. 167a. Postponed import tax may be applied by a person who at the date of import meets both the following conditions: 1. import of goods referred to in Annex 3; 2. each goods declared in the customs import document shall have a customs value equal to or greater than 50,000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. registered on the basis of art. 96, 97 or 100, para. 1 not less than 6 months before import; 4. there are no due and unpaid public obligations collected by the National Revenue Agency. Order of deferred import tax Art. 167b. (1) The importer shall declare in the import customs document lodged that he will apply a deferred import tax. (2) When the importer fulfils the conditions laid down in art. 167a, the customs authorities raise the goods without the tax being effectively imported or secured. (3) For the accrued tax under art. 57 the importer shall be entitled to a tax credit under the terms of Chapter I. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The customs administration shall provide the revenue administration with information electronically on the accepted import customs documents and the import tax payments received within 14 days of the expiry of each calendar month, as well as information on persons who have declared that they will apply deferred import tax. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 after the word the comma and the words the sum of not less than BGN 50 000 shall be deleted; (b) in para. 3 after the word the comma and the words at least 50 000 levs are deleted; (c) in para. 15 sentence first, at the end, a part of the register referred to in Article 15 shall be added. 80, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183, para. 2 the word "Credit' is replaced by the word "Credit' in the document. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186, para. 1, t. Point 1 (c) is repealed. 36. In the Additional Provisions: (a) Paragraph 1 shall set up t. 88, 89 and 90: It's 88. "Voucher' is an instrument under which there is an obligation to be accepted as payment or part of a payment for the provision of goods or services and for which the goods or services to be provided or the names of the persons who will eventually provide them are indicated on the instrument itself or in the related documentation, including in the terms and conditions of use of the instrument in question. 89. A voucher for a specific purpose is a voucher where the place of delivery of the goods or services to which the voucher relates and the value added tax payable for those goods or services can be determined at the time of the issue of the voucher. 90. A multi-purpose voucher is a voucher other than a voucher for a specific purpose. (b) Paragraph 1a establishes points 10, 11 and 12: ..10. Council Directive (EU) 2016/1065 of 27 June 2016 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the tax treatment of vouchers (OJ L 177/9 of 1 July 2016.). 11. Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017 amending Directive 2006/112/EC and Directive 2009/132/EC as regards certain obligations relating to value added tax applicable to the supply of services and distance sales of goods (OJ L 348/7 of 29 December 2017).). 12. Council Directive (EU) 2018/912 of 22 June 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the obligation to comply with a minimum standard tax rate (OJ L 162/1 of 27 June 2018)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 37. Annex 3 to art. 3 is hereby established. 167a: Annex 3 to art. 167a, as follows in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u207	Thank you. Ending with 167a, Annex 3? Statements? There was a statement. I understand, let's keep some order. Mr. Gokov, I see, but Mrs. Klisurska has the advantage over you, she was the first to raise her hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this paragraph, we are amending the Value Added Tax Act. It is high time for everyone in this Chamber to think about the differentiated VAT as needed by Bulgarian citizens. At the moment, 1 million. 650,000 Bulgarian citizens live below the poverty line. And one of the main functions of the tax system is exactly the redeployment. It is this function that enables the inequality to be mitigated through the prism of the market economy for those who receive less in any way to have some justice. What is the current state without differentiated VAT? The current condition is that about 30. 40% of the consumption of poor people is for bread, medicines, electricity and so on. The proposal we are making in the paragraph is related to the differentiated VAT on the bread to fall to 5% and the differentiated VAT on the medicines of the NHIF. People with low and medium incomes devote most of their salaries to consumption, which means they pay a higher percentage of their VAT revenue. Corporations are free of this tax, even more so, that they have the opportunity to transfer their personal expenses through companies. More than half of tax revenues are collected from indirect taxes. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria the revenues are 53%, compared to the European Union, where there are 34.9%. Where are we?! Let's see the companies. I will present statistics: companies, the ten richest companies, with the highest revenues, which amount to 22 billion. BGN, import around 44 million. lv. corporate tax. The share of the shadow economy currently amounts to 2.83% of gross domestic product. On the one hand, we believe that with our proposal we will reduce the possibility that many of those who are involved in the production of bread will get out of the gray sector and lighten up. I will mention several important meetings that were held by Minister Rumen Porozhanov in early September, when the price of bread was increased by 30 cents from the fact that it increased by 35% in wheat this year. Now is the time to talk about differentiated VAT on bread. Colleagues from "United patriots" who participated in a lot of comments were also willing to accept the proposal for differentiated VAT. I very much hope that today, in this Chamber, we will see their reaction as they have commented. I made the effort to follow the debates in the hall in previous national meetings, and what impressed me is that as early as 2012, Desislava Atanasova, then Minister of Health, spoke about differentiated VAT on medicines "2012," 2013 commitments for differentiated VAT are made. Today we are 2018 and, to my great regret, the will of the people's representation in this direction is gone. I will also make a comparison with European countries: we and Denmark are the only countries where we do not have differentiated VAT. The large social disproportions in the Bulgarian population now lead to the logic that nine times is the rich over the poor population. It is in this regard that we must enable the people to whom their basic resources go for bread, medicines, to reduce VAT and thus increase consumption and remove it from the grey sector. And if someone comes up with the argument that the administration of different VAT is difficult, we already have the experience with such a different VAT rate in terms of tourism tax. In this regard, I call on everyone in this House to reconsider the subject and accept our proposal for differentiated VAT on bread and medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The weather is very advanced and much of the audience is tired, and we still have some serious debates ahead of us. I'll be very brief. The problem that has been mentioned to us by the World Health Organisation with regard to the burden of personal payments to citizens in providing their health needs and the recommendation was to reduce payments to a minimum of 20 per cent of the citizens' pocket in terms of health costs. I would like to share with my fellow Members that the main part, which goes for personal payments from the pockets of Bulgarian citizens, is related to the medicines and is significant lv. The differentiation of the VAT rate on medicines could therefore seriously alleviate a very large proportion of the population with relatively low incomes living on the poverty line. This should not be underestimated in any case, because it is a very serious question to us whether we are really interested in optimising Bulgarian healthcare, optimizing the expenses of Bulgarian citizens or continuing the VAT policy for medicines, which will in no case lead to optimal results. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u211	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Without referring to research, it is clear to us all that the Bulgarian often confuses very deeply in his pocket for food, and more than the average European does when it comes to buying the same food. The research says that the biggest feather in the expenditures of the Bulgarians is its food costs, while for Europeans this expenditure is in third place. It turned out that one of the reasons for this was VAT. What happens to the prices of mass bread in the country? They grow up, and they grow up in a short time. They couldn't help but jump with about 20% electricity, fuel, grain, flour, bread. From 1 July 2019 pensions will be up 5.7% of previously eaten by inflation, including bread. And no reaction from the government to take action on the problem. Today many praises have become for the coalition partner, but to be correct, I will say it: there were announcements and calls from them to find a solution on the issue of bread and food products, but because of pressure from GERB remained only intentions. In my opinion, the finance minister had to say what money comes from VAT in the budget and whether it is possible to find a solution, for example, to reduce the VAT on bread. But he did not because for GERB the collection of money is more important than the survival of the people. Logically, BSP proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which are expressed as: first step, reduction of VAT on bread by 5%; second step, tax rate. In this we saw an opportunity to preserve people's incomes so that they would not be eaten by inflation, which would inevitably occur at the appreciation of food products. Next, the introduction of differentiated VAT rates. I suggest that, in addition to tourism, at a reduced rate of 9%, the medicines paid by the Health Insurance Fund should also be charged. The amendments to tax legislation proposed by our parliamentary group are a continuation of the amendments to BSP's alternative budget for 2018, which you did not support. They are set out in our Project "Vision for Bulgaria" and are the results of proposals collected from the meetings of the MPs in the country. You immediately accused us of populism and sabotaging revenue in the budget. At the moment, around 400 million are being paid in the budget. lv. VAT on bread and medicines. It's a fact! But it is a fact that you underestimate the revenue in the budget and this is evident from the previous budget for 2018, with which you will probably go up 2 billion. lv. Of course, it is extremely important for the reduction of VAT on bread to have a very precise expert analysis, especially financial. Experts in the industry claim that the tax reduction does not necessarily mean that the state will receive less money, that is, less money will enter the budget. This is justified by the likelihood that the grey sector will come to light and note that it is about 40.. 50% and this will compensate for the losses in the budget. It is necessary to place the problem on the table, to have an expert analysis, and now that we are looking at tax laws, to offer it as an opportunity. There's no way you're not worried about what's happening at the price of bread in the country. In all the meetings we do around the country and in foster homes, people are very concerned about the increase in bread and, if you do not realize it, you will soon be overthrown. If the value added tax for the bread is not reduced, with the next budget the poor will become even poorer because it is their main food and is in the consumer basket of the Bulgarians. I will move on: we are the poorest country in Europe and yet our food tax is the greatest. I will also draw attention to some countries in Europe that have different tax rates: Malta does not have taxes on food; Poland does not have taxes on certain basic foods; the tax on food in Luxembourg, which is the richest country in the world, is only 3%, the Czech Republic is 5%, Belgium is 6%, Germany is 7%. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It wouldn't be a big problem if I went 30 seconds over time and you didn't want to hear what you were told... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u213	Mr. Gokov, please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u214	Instead of yelling from the ground up, maybe you'd better come and justify why you won't support this...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u215	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u216	...in addition, only colleagues from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs, as it was their idea to support to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u217	You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u218	Well, when they interrupt the speech, how is it not gonna last?! That's right. I call on my colleagues from the United Patriarchs... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u219	Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we have made proposals for VAT in respect of goods of primary need. This isn't about some indulgence, some merchandise. Here it is about medicines, and it is about medicines that are paid, bought by the National Health Insurance Fund, and bread. Bulgaria again ranks first in the European Union on VAT. I will give you a short comparative analysis of what is VAT on medicines and food in other European countries: in France, for medicines it is 5,5%, for foods is also 5,5%; Germany - 7% for medicines, 7% for food; Belgium - 0% for medicines, 6% for food; Greece, which has 250 billion debt and 13% for medicines; Romania - 6% for medicines, 0% for food; Poland - 8% for medicines and 5% for food; Hungary - 5% for medicines and 6% for food; Croatia - 0% for medicines and 0.9% for food. More than that. The World Bank, honourable MPs, recommended to Bulgaria that you obviously will not comply with the recommendation and why, I do not know, the VAT on medicines should be reduced to those in Eastern Europe, not for anything else, but because this tax is of the greatest weight. He hits the poor again because I said at the beginning that these are essential goods, it is not about luxury or indulgence. The costs in Bulgaria for medicines are 38% of the total costs of health care and 25% in the European Union. However, the VAT on medicines in almost all countries in the European Union is significantly lower than that in Bulgaria. Poor people in Bulgaria, honourable MPs, with these proposals that you will not accept, unfortunately, would receive better access even to health care, to be able to treat and buy medicines. Poor people in Bulgaria are doomed to hunger and it is impossible to treat, honourable MPs. People who worked for their homeland, with 40 years of service, with a pension of 200 BGN, can't buy drugs, can't pay for their bread. You can cut those prices, but you don't want to. With the highest taxes for bread and medicine, you really condemn Bulgarians to poverty, hunger and disease. That's the truth. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I hope you will have some sense in the end, because if you do not support our proposals, I will tell you: bravo, this is really genocide to the Bulgarian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u222	Two minutes, not that long. On 20 February 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 February 2014 to 25 February 2014 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 It is rejected with the votes of GERB, DPS and BSP. I have nothing else to say to you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u223	Thank you, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u224	I'll explain something to you that you're pretending to be blown up about!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u225	Professor Stanilov, this is already a violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u226	This is what I am telling you to see all the demagogy, to hear it, and what I am about to tell you is this: there is a coalition agreement between GERB and the United Patriarchs and there is no reduction in the VAT rate. It's clear. They won the election, not you, that's the way it is. It doesn't cancel anything, no one can cancel it. This is a document to see what you look like. [[(Applause and cheers by GERB and "United Patriarchs": So! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u227	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u228	Thank you. First, after they proposed it then, you should support it now. You're acquitted of your coalition agreement. Mr. Stanilov, in your coalition agreement, there was no indication that you would increase taxes. Here, you're increasing them. That's why you can't do that. This is demagogy, Mr. Stanilov! That is what demagogy is and it is right now to go out on this stage and say: yes, we will support this proposal because it is reasonable because it is for Bulgarian citizens, not to justify yourself with any agreements. When you concluded the agreements, why did you conclude them when you couldn't execute anything from your program? You can't do that. That's your problem. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u229	Professor Stanilov, please, Professor Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u230	At least you don't lie to people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u231	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Professor Stanilov, please! Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In principle, BSP colleagues have made a very nice proposal, only it does not respond to this proposal that we have made. In essence, the two proposals are fundamentally different. First, we have offered to have a zero VAT rate, you are offering a five. The economists from you have read the directive and know that five can be proposed, but there must be a derogation to European Union law in order to be able to propose it. My question to you is: do you have one? Through my vote and through the vote of colleagues I do not want to burden all poor Bulgarian citizens to pay millions of compensation per day with a penalty procedure because of such a proposal. I will tell you the other phenomenal change: what we have proposed in our proposal before, is zero percent on these groups of food products, goods and services that are produced on the territory of the country, which is radically different from yours. With the negative external trade balance we have, this automatically means that you are trying to stimulate the import of medicines and certain product groups from other countries. With us understanding was different.. we have to exit the base, help through the tax system, including the economy at local level. Again, your proposal is very good, good is the debate that has risen. The subject is favorable for playing political PR, but it is not the same with what we have proposed. In order to return to your reproach on us as governors, and to my colleague Stanilov, we do have a signed coalition agreement. We'd probably have a signed coalition agreement with you if you had won. In these coalition agreements, a government must bet on how it sees the future, it must be stable, clear and predictable for everyone. If you really think about it, you will see that accepting your proposal will lead to a criminal procedure. How are you going to argue the criminal procedure because the VAT is being monitored by the European Commission extremely rigorously and in another very short place, it also concerns the payment of the fees that we have from the charges, i.e. the budget of the European Union, including the entire budget of the European Union? You know he can't sleep there. Once again, go out and say: we agree if from our own pocket, whether from somewhere else, we find that money. Yes, I agree with the situation in our society. Yeah, there's not enough money. Yeah, there's not enough money. The question is whether to do it through tax cuts or try to do it with you through an increase in income. These are the two possibilities we have. You're currently suggesting we make a withdrawal from taxes. Great! I offer you another: let us jointly do so that we can raise incomes. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u233	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, please do not mislead the auditorium and the audience. There's no such penal procedure. I don't know where you made it up. There won't be, there won't be! Let me ask you: what criminal procedure was there in France, Germany, Belgium, Greece, Romania, Poland, Hungary, Croatia? Was there a reduction in the VAT on medicines and on foods - 5%, 0%, 6%? What kind of penal procedure? Don't scare people, cause confusion and utter untruths from the stands. The other thing you said: we, if we were not in a coalition agreement with GERB, would be with you... You just said that. This means that it is important for you to be in the department. It is not important what the program is or whether you have a management program at all. It's obvious you don't have it. You say, "Let's give, let's make people's incomes bigger." What are you doing in this government that reduces people's incomes? Why are you sitting there? Why are you sitting in this department that raises all the taxes that hit the poor man? Stop! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u235	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Another line? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Alexandrov, I disagree with your speech because it was clearly quite vague. The left side of the room obviously didn't understand anything you tried to explain. You must clearly say what happens when European legislation is not implemented, and what is happening is always and only a criminal procedure followed by property sanctions per day. These property penalties amount to several thousand euros. These several thousand euros will be paid by all Bulgarian citizens if the proposal of colleagues on the left is accepted. They know very clearly that what they have proposed is entirely speculative. There really must be a derogation. Before there is a derogation, there is no way to introduce such rates without risking the engaging of a criminal procedure with regard to Bulgaria. Such differentiated rates have been made in other countries but have been made following a derogation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u237	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I was under the impression that you and your group have sometimes met on the media to comment on the problems with increased bread prices and other food products, which will be available in the future. I was under the impression that you were looking for a solution on the issue of overcoming price increases. To my surprise, on the bill, you didn't offer anything between the first and second votes in this direction. In the reduction of VAT from BSP we saw an opportunity to regulate in some way fast price jumping. You don't support him now. What is your decision in this case? Next, your colleague called you, what is this European legislation? Quote a directive, regulation or whatever you want, which prohibits Bulgaria from having 5% VAT on the bread and for which we will receive a penalty procedure from Europe. Tell him to know and let's not get it wrong. I am pleasantly surprised that you want to solve the issue of the Bulgarians not by reducing taxes, but by increasing incomes. We will soon adopt the state budget, before that we adopted the budget of state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund. Your proposal to increase these incomes of the Bulgarian there was also not. How do you see this increase in income in coalition with this majority that you have formed with GERB? I'm sorry, just with the coalition agreement? I think that's how you lose your image. If you stay in the station, thinking you're going to go too far and rise as a percentage, you're very wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u239	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear replicating! Mr. Popov, obviously you didn't hear me a few days ago, I'll repeat it to you again: when the lawyers become populists, things definitely don't go well. Open the Value Added Tax Act, Mr. Gokov. There is a European directive that relates to VAT. It says that each Member may apply one or two differentiated rates. Currently, in your opinion, we have two rates of 20 and 9, but we have zero rates released from Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 of the Value Added Tax Act, and a reverse charge on VAT, that is, there are five situations. I cannot, from this tribune every day, in three minutes, try to teach you how a law can become a law, which is the directive in which it is written and where there is a criminal procedure. If you have not heard of criminal procedures against Bulgaria, I can tell you that there have been, including during the reign of Oresharski. If you want a serious debate outside the populism you are trying very skillfully to play and so on, again, we are constructive. We will sit down to talk to you, and I suppose the whole government, including GERB. It has been seen earlier that we are inclined as you are in favour of good proposals, and we are also in favour of making and supporting your good proposals. If we talk this way, you're trying to spit or say, "You're making excuses." No, I'm not making excuses. I turned to you and told you this: if you had won the elections, our coalition agreement would have been with you. Does that mean you'd be making excuses right now, or wouldn't you? There's a control pattern. This model of management must be stable, an easy forecast must be made and it must go towards raising the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. That's why I reached out your hand together to go and raise your income. A socialist party should look good on it. I can't understand why you want to slow down. Let's increase income, not anything else, income. This should go to the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u241	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Outside of the Euro Directs and this dispute whether Europe gives or does not give, we are a sovereign state and we can solve everything. We will not support your proposal, not because of Eurodirections, but because you have no guarantee that reducing VAT on bread and medicines will lower the prices of medicines and bread. You have no guarantee! However, I have a guarantee that I will give you what will happen: it will happen that large pharmaceutical companies and their distributors and small pharmaceutical companies will dramatically increase their profits. So let's say things with their real names. You import a text to stimulate pharmaceutical companies, not to give cheaper medicines to the poor, because if prices remain the same, which is right for traders, we must introduce price regulation. Are you suggesting that we introduce the regulation of bread and medicine prices? Secondly, I accept that your goal is not lobbying, you are not lobbying for large pharmaceutical companies, but doing something else. Did you know that there is a sale of bread and five leva each there is such bread?! He doesn't buy from poor people. It's bought by rich people. But ye say, Let us bring down the price of this bread, for it is bread. Next, you obviously think that poor people eat only bread. They also eat cheese, probably yogurt. Let's take the VAT off everything, because everything is important. In the Committee on Culture, our colleagues from the BSP occasionally say: let's lose VAT and books, because in these countries there are people who read books. Let's get rid of the VAT then straight! However, the bigger question is that you have no guarantee that these prices will fall. Now we have a debate here without these guarantees. That's a problem! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The issue of social policy is not conducted through VAT. It's not the VAT way! You are a social party, a socialist, you should understand that. Care for poor people goes through social policy. Let's give the poor people free drugs. The state guarantees it and, by the way, it guarantees it. There are medicines that are free that are widely used. This enables poor people to cope with the difficulties in their lives, rather than by reducing VAT and stimulating large capital. It is a very funny socialist party struggles to remove a tax that relieves large producers, including bread producers, not only medicines. That is the question: what do we do with this tax? From then on, the social policy is social policy. We, unfortunately, are constantly handing out some relief in many ways. In this regard, the state must also reconsider some of its policies, other policies. There is no point in stimulating rich people with the argument that we want to help the poor. And Nicholas Gomez-Davila, a Colombian philosopher, says: "Socialism doesn't always kill, but it always lies. Now we're witnessing this! [[Applause from GERB.]] Tax and his removal does not solve the problem of the poor. He can make the middle class poorer, but he can't make the poor rich by taking down the tax. They're not gonna get rich! They will become rich or they will not become rich, but they will get rich in some way if a income policy takes place, as is the next item on the budget. In increasing incomes, increasing consumption, reducing unemployment, increasing economic growth, these are the topics on which they deal with poverty. To remove the VAT tax on bread and medicines with the argument that this is the key to all issues and unlocks in all directions the problem of poverty seems speculative to me, not to say directly and in a harsh way. That is why we will not support this idea of yours. We are sure that we will debate it again, because I see that you, in certain seasons, make the same proposals and have the same debates here. We have to explain things with their real names. That's what you want to do. Once again, or at least this will happen if we accept your proposal, we will stimulate large pharmaceutical companies and encourage distributors, bread producers to increase their profits because we cannot oblige them to keep low prices. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u243	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. For the first line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u244	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bikov! BSP does not want to regulate the prices, but Karakachanov and Neno Dimov wanted, you know, to meet the consumer basket there. So don't press charges. Dear Mr. Bikov, two facts: lowest pension in Bulgaria and lowest salary, greatest poverty, highest VAT for medicines. In neighbouring Macedonia the minimum pension is 250 euros somewhere, here is 200 BGN, they have free medicines. Everything else, Mr. Bikov, is just vanity and chasing after the wind. All these things that you are saying here give a distinction to VAT in terms of medicines. On the contrary, they would not have cut prices. They're going to cut prices. This is true in all other European countries where people are rich, where they have a large income, much larger than Bulgaria. That's what this is about, not something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u245	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, with respect to your pathos, I have always asked you when you talk about problems that are strictly professional, not to jump the limit of the measure and I will tell you this: the regulation of the prices of medicines in Bulgaria, which are reimbursed, is very well written and Bulgaria has some of the lowest prices of these medicines, which are reimbursed 100% of the National Health Insurance Fund. Another question is, however, Mr. Bikov, that the list of reimbursed medicines in Bulgaria is extremely short, extremely short! In practice, this construction is short list and high VAT, crushing a huge part of the Bulgarian population, which does not have access to a real treatment. If you turn to the majority of Bulgarian citizens who need medicines, and these are people after the fifth and sixth decades of their lives, these are the Bulgarian pensioners mostly, these are the children, you need to understand well that so great is the burden on them that they cannot implement the treatment plan that is provided to them conscientiously by their treating doctors. So I'm asking you to be correct and when we look at the medal, look at it from both sides. It's too short the reimbursing leaves! The reimbursing list is very short, and this requires a change from both sides of the list to be extended, VAT to be reduced and this will be the decision for the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u247	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u248	Dear Mr. Bikov, these generalizations where you do them... impress me. Socialism, which has not always killed but has always lied, will now quote your words: "If I am elected as a member of parliament, I will be one of those who will initiate an examination in the parliament of Tsvetan Tsvetanov's overall activity as an internal minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u249	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u250	I'm not gonna stop...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u251	Let your line be on the subject, so we don't go in again...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u252	...until I see this man accused and convicted of all the crimes he's committed in the last four years. There are hundreds of cases. We must show once and for all that there will be justice after every abuse. I think you lied to these people when you said that. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u253	On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u254	There is, no socialism lies, Mr. Bikov, you're lying! There are more quotes, if you like: Borisov there is no way out. Either another Prime Minister's term of office, or he should be heavily investigated. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There's a chance he'll be the first prime minister
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u255	Will you stick to the subject? Discussion of a bill, Mr. Kutev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u256	...will be serving time in prison. said Mr. Bikov. Socialism doesn't know if he's lying, but Mr. Bikov is lying because everything he said didn't do. And you said that before you were elected MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u258	When you have been elected MP, do your job, start with Tsvetanov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u259	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popov, I could not hear from your statement a guarantee that prices would fall. I did not hear it and this confirms my opinion that your proposal is not effective, will not lead to an effect. Professor Mihailov, you say that the prices of medicines in the reimbursing list are free, cheap and so on and well regulated, but it is short. You're not suggesting it increase. Besides, it's so short, it's got over 2,000 drugs in it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u261	Two thousand seven hundred!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u262	Two thousand and seven hundred tell me from the front row. If this is what you want, put forward a proposal in this direction and not reduce VAT in order to increase the profits of producers. Mr. Kutev seems a little silly to me to answer him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u263	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u264	What can I say? Me, if I've lied more than socialism, then I've gotten at least to Carl Marx's level, which I could hardly dream of doing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you expect me to regret my words in front of you, you are deeply mistaken. You're not my moral sturgeon that I can repent to. I repent elsewhere. I usually go to some Orthodox church, there is repentance, not before the comrade court of the BSP. The Comrade Court does so in your party, in our party we have other mechanisms. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The Comrade Court is yours, and if you're thinking of turning it into a Plenum of the National Council of BSP, you're not going to get it. We are talking about VAT and I have not seen the logic of your speech at all. Otherwise, just because I've ever said shit doesn't mean I have to talk about it my whole life, like they do. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and applause from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB]] By the way, most socialists, as do most socialists. You've been talking nonsense for 300 years, and you're gonna talk another 300, and you're still not gonna get it because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u265	Please, Mr. Bikov. It's a good thing you finished your speech. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor provoked by the statement of my colleague Alexandrov with a request, first, to be explained to me on condition that we will have serious conversations about differentiated rates on value added tax, criminal procedures that threaten us and thus such scary things, if we introduce them, to ask him: Mr. Alexandrov, what happened to your idea by your parliamentary group to introduce VAT on gambling? Where did we get him? Speaking of which, we have a lot of 0.5 and 9.20 rates, let's get rid of the zero rate and go five up, because what we're talking about here is that prices wouldn't fall if we cut the value added tax is an insult to the Bulgarian business. You are directly accusing the Bulgarian business of immorality and it will take undue advantage of the fact that we will lower the VAT and keep the prices. Is that your attitude towards business? Is that your attitude, I ask? Do you not think that the Bulgarian business is a little more national responsible than you, who sit here and make the laws, and by reducing the VAT, it will not raise the price, but will comply with what it is done for. When we talk about prices, when we talk about whether it's being made with richer or poorer, you have to pay more, you become poorer. This math is clear to everyone. When you pay more, you get poorer, and when you get a little bit and you pay more, the misery gets you. I hope this will only be the material misery in which you are trying to involve us, not culturally, because by continuing this way, you condemn people to not being able to buy bread, not being able to buy medicine. Please be socially sensitive, be the ones you sit for here who have chosen you to sit here to protect their interests! Try to think what 15% means on the price of bread! How much more bread can people buy with that 15% less? Please think about it! Because otherwise you continue to speak right-orientedly, with a left-hand look, and in the end you achieve what you have achieved for nine years "The Bulgarian people are becoming poorer and poorer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u267	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I won't. [[The National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take a personal explanation from Mr. Ermenkov's words because he may have, in my opinion, made a mistake. He approached me initially and said that I provoked him to speak, then started talking about the right party and essentially about what Mr. Bikov was talking about. Maybe it'd be nice to see the shorthand. I'm also taking a personal explanation on another subject. Because I was asked to answer the question of what happened to the gambling tax. Mr. Peter Petrov and I were thinking about this subject and he was going to bring it up, so we haven't forgotten it. That's why I don't find any logic in recognizing each other to such a large extent that I'm motivating you. On the bright side, I'm a moving agent, and I'm motivating you to take lines and speak. Again, I do not cancel my call: let us be constructive! There is a positive thing that Mrs. Nino in the last parliament "the 40th and second National Assembly" ended in 2013 "2014." This is through the retail chains. This thing is great, we worked then, it's really great. Let's be constructive here today. That's my call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u269	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. You have the floor to speak, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I feel obliged to say a few words based on the practice of the European Union and not to enter into personal, party and other disputes. I would like to tell you that what we are proposing answers a hundred percent of the European Union's policies in which we are members. It was said by my colleagues: honourable Members, from 28 Member States of the European Union, 26 countries have a differentiated VAT scale, between three and four rocks, which necessarily include food, cultural works, access to cultural institutes, medicines, medical services, medical equipment, internal travels, international travels in some countries. In other words, many things have been said here, but they contradict common sense. On 28 countries 26 have differentiated rates, there are two countries that do not. One country is highly developed - it is not Bulgaria, unfortunately. This is Denmark. Dear colleagues, Denmark is a very specific country. There, education, including higher education, is free. Health is free, so once it is free, they can afford and not have a differentiated rate. There is no developed or rapidly developing country that does not have differentiated taxes. Here were mentioned left and right sides. We are a Member State of the European Union, but for your information, even in the United States prescription drugs are free, but even there is a differentiated tax there is not VAT, but a sales fee that varies from zero percent in five states, 7.5% in California, and an exception of 10.5% in Puerto Rico, far lower than in Europe. To claim that by reducing the VAT on medicines or especially bread, this will lead to filling the crates of those who supply them to manufacturers, contrary to common sense. This, if so, means 26 countries of the European Union, this Harvard, Cambridge, Humboldt in Germany, do not understand anything. Here in Bulgaria, there are experts, artists, lawyers and others who will give them lectures on real prices. [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] I'm sorry, I'm going to give you an example of the so-called real prices. I want to tell you that at times I feel a danger to my mental health by listening to certain things. You cannot reduce both the imports and the Bulgarian producers for example the VAT is 20%, and you remove both the importers and the Bulgarians by 20%, and suddenly one becomes more competitive. By what logic?! I'm straining all my intellectual potential, and I can't figure it out. There's no such thing! About income. If there is something true to increase incomes, it is very good, only that the European Commission.. will be mentioned shortly in the discussions of the budget, said that Bulgaria's opportunities to stimulate growth through consumption and income are exhausted. They wrote it, I'll quote it to you by pages. It is therefore good to increase incomes, but a fellow Member has rightly addressed the issue of imports and exports. Well, when we have a trade deficit, what? As we increase the incomes of 5% faster imports, 22.5% decreased imports in Bulgaria in the last eight months from January to the end of August, which is a disaster for the trade balance. What do we do when we increase our income?! By the same logic, we'll be buying more imported goods. Colleagues, in conclusion. It is an absolute crushing practice to have differentiated taxes of 99% of the European Union. There are no problems with derogations and others. As France, Italy, Germany can, what are we to Europe, are we apprentices to Europe?! How can 26 countries have three or four scales of VAT, our country can't have Bulgaria?! What do you mean? Maybe there is! We offer you, it is your right, colleagues, to accept or not. Yes, you have won the elections, you have the right to accept or not to accept, but do not deprive the opposition of the right to offer proven European and global practices. Nothing more. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u271	Thank you, dear Professor Gechev. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of going out on the stand by these two days, but apparently the demagogy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party has passed the straw and the last speeches have passed all kinds of boundaries. Because you get up and say that Western countries like this, Western countries otherwise. You didn't say anything about an easterly one that you've been bowing to your whole life and nothing. I made a mistake here once and I mentioned that with this demagogy you could win elections in North Korea and I was wrong. Three days later Mrs. Yoncheva met me and said: Mr. Gurnevsky, I have a black stamp in my passport. I'm not allowed in North Korea. So false are these news, speeches, so demagogic that, comrades and comrades, you are no longer allowed in North Korea, and you are allowed to talk about Europe. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u273	Please, on the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u274	That's right on the subject. Before noon, there is talk here: no social policy is being made through taxes. In the afternoon, what you ate, what you drank, you come here and say we're going to make social policy through taxes. You just said that. The pensions are small. You've been talking about pensions for two days. Why didn't you say that 1989, when you went bankrupt and repainted, the People's Pension Fund, worked for 50 years and built this country, was zero, Mr. Gechev, you know that well. Where are the pensions of this people?! And now you're talking about pensions. You know better than me where they are, because at your time there were bank failures, there was privatisation with your participation. Young people escaped. Well, to your MP, the prominent secretary of the Central Committee is not any younger, the grandfather Mr. Stoyan Mihailov said in July:...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u275	Mr. Gurnevsky, get back on the subject, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u276	...our party guides Bulgaria towards capitalism...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u277	Get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u278	...and created such ugly capitalism, which drove 2 million young people out of Bulgaria. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u279	Mr. Gurnevsky, if you don't get on the subject, I'm going to stop your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u280	You admit who drove the young people away. [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I speak truths.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u281	I understand, but you're not on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u282	You're talking about rich people, Mr. Bikov. Whom will we benefit by their laws?! For two months, who are the rich people, the oligarchs, the ones with the untold riches, the Rolls-Royce ones, the castles. Well, all of them are connected to the BCP and to State Security...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u283	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u284	The party's lying to you... Fifty years of lying about building socialism, finally robbing the state and building capitalism. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u285	Get on the subject or I'll interrupt your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u286	Okay. Allow me, however, I speak truths as I have written about this party all my life [[beeping loudly]] To remind you of one of my verses: The party's waving demagogic flags that it's social, fair, fair, but if you dig around...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u287	Mr. Gurnevsky, stop the speech... You've strayed from the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u288	You'll see she's arrogant, arrogant, and especially thieving.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u289	Mr. Gurnevsky, you've strayed from the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u290	That's right on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u291	Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, Mr. President, as you lead the meeting, don't let the nerves drop from MPs like the one who speaks here. I won't mention his name so I won't give him any reason to talk. I'd just like to tell him this: Mr. Bikov just said that we've been saying the same thing for 300 years. Thank you. I've got 232 years left. I'm 68. He's talking about 50 years ago. Mr. Gurnevsky, at the moment of the vast majority of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u293	You already told him his name, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u294	Mr. Chairman, please, through you, explain to Mr. Gurnevsky, thank you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u295	I'm making this commitment, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u296	...that the vast majority of Bulgarian pensioners talk about pensions their pensions are lower than blood pressure, honourable colleagues! This is social terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u297	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. I don't see any other speeches. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 171 MPs: 65, against 65, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 44 by importer, which shall become § 57. They voted 173 MPs: for 112, against 61, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 58, and the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u299	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposals for § 45.48 texts? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for the Commission's Anblock proposals supporting the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 58, § 46, which becomes § 59, § 47, which becomes § 60 and § 48, which becomes § 61. They voted 118 MPs: 96, against 18, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u300	The Commission proposes that § 49 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 41, t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u301	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 49, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 41, paragraph 1. 4. They voted 106 MPs: 96, against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u302	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 62. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 63: .............................................................................. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: (a) c. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (c) a certificate of criminality or similar document for persons who are not Bulgarian citizens; for the Bulgarian citizens the lack of condemnation shall be established in a professional capacity; (b) c. 2 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) a certificate of criminality or similar document for non-Bulgarian nationals; for the Bulgarian citizens the lack of condemnation shall be established in a professional capacity; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 347, para.3, sentence one, the words "al." 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u303	Are there any comments on the proposed two texts? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported texts in the version of the Commission Report on § 50, which becomes § 62, and on the newly created § 63. Vote 100 MPs: 86 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u304	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in § 50. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov to create a new § 50b The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for § 50b and supports the proposal for § 50c 50g. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up § 64 "69." ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The existing customs are closed by order of the Minister of Finance. The legal relationship with the employees shall be governed under the terms and conditions of art. Art. 87a. 106, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Civil Service, respectively art. Art. 123, Art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code within the defined number of staff of the Customs Agency and in accordance with the defined structure and number of staff of the territorial departments. § 65. In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 199, para. 2 the words "the relevant customs office" shall be replaced by the corresponding territorial directorate of the Agency. § 66. In the Law for the recovery of overpaid excise duty for used cars (prom., SG No. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 67. In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 62, para. 6, p. 6 the words "the leaders of the.s" shall be replaced by "the directors of the territorial departments of the.s.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. § 68. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 6 the words "the leaders of the.s" shall be replaced by "the directors of the territorial departments of the.s.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. § 69. In the Law on Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 6, para. 1 t. 21 is amended as follows: ..21. the Director, Deputy Directors and Secretary-General of the Customs Agency, the Directors of Directorates and the Director-General of the Central Customs Directorates and their alternates, the Directors of Territorial Directorates and their alternates, the Heads of Customs Offices and Customs Posts;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u306	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking an attitude of § 64. The existing customs are closed by order of the Minister of Finance. Territorial directorates shall be established. So far, no harm has come to Elijah again in these, or he has changed his clothes. Customs instead of customs officers, we'll call them territorial officials. More importantly, it's something else. In this paragraph, relationships with employees shall be governed on the basis of art. 106, para. 1, t. 1 of the Civil Service Act. And he says: The appointment officer may terminate the service with one month's notice in the following cases: 1. In the event of closure of an administration in which the civil servant is appointed. What do we do with this § 64? We allow, with the creation of the new structure, the new director, who will be appointed naturally without a competition agreed with the Minister of Finance, to be able to fire any former customs official and to appoint whoever decides. That is, to appoint our people. Because you remember that with § 50 we accepted, in art. 10 we canceled the preliminary stage of the competitions. The amendments thus adopted to the Customs Act create a brand new philosophy through the Corporate and Income Tax Act. I believe that this is not right and should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u307	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported texts for § 50b "50g" for § 50b, which become § 50c "50g," and on the text of the Commission Report for § 64 "69," reported in full. 90 MPs voted: 74 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, we're going back to the additional report. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules establishing a new § 70 in the Transitional and Final Provisions. The Commission has supported it in relation to the proposals adopted under § 39 in the version of the Commission, i.e. 14 et seq. Art. 18, Art. 61, para. 2. They have been rejected and that is why this paragraph must also be rejected. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u309	Read, please, the text of Jordan Tsonev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u310	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules establishing a new § 70 in the Transitional and Final Provisions: To create a new § 70 and to make the former § 70 in the version of the Commission § 71. ...... 70......................................................................... (1) By 10 January 2019 the lessor shall notify the municipality of its seat by submitting a correction declaration under art. 54, para. 4 as well as the municipalities at the current address, respectively the head office of the lessor by submitting declarations under art. 54, para. 4a for vehicles granted for use on the basis of financial leasing contracts in force on 31 December 2018. The declarations shall indicate the identification of the lessor, including the current address, respectively the seat of the lessor, as well as the registration and identification number of the vehicle. (2) The amount of the tax on vehicles under para. 1 shall be determined in accordance with Article 1. 54, para. 4a by an employee of the municipal administration at this address, respectively the seat of the lessor, and shall be communicated to the lessor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u311	The Commission's view is to reject Mr. Tsonev's proposal. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject proposals from the MP Yordan Tsonev text. 90 MPs voted: 70 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u312	Paragraph 51. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 70, and shall propose the following wording: ...... 70......................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2019 with the exception of: 1. Paragraph 43 t. 2.................................................... 4 t. 65, p. 4 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 5 (b) - - - - - - - - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 2. Paragraph 63, which shall enter into force on 18 November 2018; 3. Paragraph 41, t. 1, § 43, t. 36, § 50, t. 1.. 3 t. 4 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 10, § 52, p. 3, § 53, t. 1 and 3 and § 65 "69', which shall enter into force from 7 January 2019; 4. Paragraph 43 t. 11.................................................................. 47, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 5 which shall enter into force from 28 January 2019; 5. Paragraph 52, t. 1, 2, 4 and 5 and § 53, t. 2, which shall enter into force on 20 May 2019; 6. Paragraph 43 t. 22, § 57, t. 9, p. 11 (b) (c) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 31, t. 32 and 37, which shall enter into force from 7. Paragraph 50, t. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8. Paragraph 39, t. Article 3 (b) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of 9. Paragraph 43 t. Article 11 concerning Art. 47, para. 4 t. 2, which shall enter into force from 28 July 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u313	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. We are going to vote on the wording of Paragraph 70 of the Commission Report. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 8, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the last text of today's voting bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, at exactly 4:00 p.m., we will continue with the budget. [[Heckling]] We're running out of time. We're running out of time. I'm sorry, the next bill is heavy at 4:00 we continue with the State Budget Bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u314	Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2019 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yesterday we read the reports on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, so today we move on to the debates. I give the floor to Minister Vladislav Goranov to present to us the draft budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u315	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present to your attention the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for next year. Today we will have a debate on the fiscal framework for 2019, which strictly reflects and follows the priorities set by the government's Programme. The macroeconomic forecast for next year is in line with the current expectations for the development of the economic environment in national and international terms. The expected economic growth for the next year in real terms is 3.7 per cent, with gross domestic product growth forecast to be accelerated mainly through public consumption and investment and nominally reaching the level of 116 billion. lv. at the end of 2019, Over the past two years, gross domestic product has increased gradually with nominal growth estimated at around 10 billion. BGN, and by the end of the term of office of this government, according to the constitutionally established deadline, the analyses show that it can exceed 130 billion. lv. The successful cycle of the economy with a significant and higher contribution from the overall factor of productivity to potential growth in the crisis period allows for a larger budget... both in terms of revenue and in terms of expenditure. We received many criticisms related to nominal cost growth, but in fact, colleagues, this is the result of the more successful Bulgarian society, which produces more. Higher employment, wage increases also increase consumption. The budget is growing, and it is while maintaining low taxation of people and businesses and according to our understanding, thus providing more resources for public services. As a community, we create more and with each subsequent year we satisfy the public needs better without creating disproportions in the economy and without burdening generations with debts ahead of us. According to our understanding, the fiscal policy we are pursuing is reasonable and improving the country's debt position is a good argument to our partners on the path of accession to the most internal round of integration in the European Union. What are the main parameters of the 2019 budget? There's been a lot of debate going on, and I'm gonna go through the big categories. The estimated annual average inflation is 3 percent, driven mainly by the growth of energy carriers, which have recently calmed the trend of increase. The unemployment rate is steadily decreasing and in 2019 we expect it to fall to 4.8 percent. The general government debt management provides stable parameters and guarantees the fiscal reserve, which at the end of September this year, according to a report, is 11.2 billion. lv. There is a positive trend for permanent reduction of the public debt of the Republic of Bulgaria against the gross domestic product. It remains the third lowest in the European Union, reducing, of course, both because of the nominal increase in gross domestic product and because of the loss of revolving debt, and the expected level of 22.5 percent at the end of 2018 is planned to fall to 19.1 percent at the end of next year and by the end of 2021, after a nominal reduction, the goal is to reach 16.5 percent of the estimated level of gross domestic product. The budgetary balance of the consolidated fiscal programme follows the pre-set gradual reduction strategy, looking for a maximum balance with the economic cycle, and for the next year we propose over-costing of revenues by 0.5 percent of the estimated gross domestic product or around 600 million, and in our opinion the strategy to move towards a balanced budgetary balance is correct. The favourable cyclical position of the economy leads to an increase in tax-insurance revenues, which are further influenced by some measures to improve collection. Without substantially changing tax policy parametrically next year, we expect total revenues from the consolidated fiscal programme to reach 43.9 billion. BGN, which is 4.7 billion. lv. more than this year. On the basis of the projected increase in revenue next year, we are planning spending policies that include constantly increasing costs, such as salaries, pensions and other social payments. Next year, we're redeploying 44,5 billion. lv. or 38.2 per cent of gross domestic product, while maintaining the unspoken tradition that the amount of public expenditure does not exceed 40 per cent of the production. The outstanding priorities of the 2019 budget are income, education, social policy and defence policy. The better collection of revenues, the increased measures taken by the institutions to combat smuggling, the predictable economic environment allows us to increase the incomes of those employed in the budget sphere by 10% for the next year, and for teachers, as we have announced in advance, by 20%, so that at the end of the projected mandate we can achieve the doubling compared to 2017. Since the election campaign, we have also stated how the minimum wage should move. Following this schedule, from next year we propose the lowest wage to be no less than BGN 560. Low pay levels have proved to be insufficient to be one of the most attractive investment destinations. It is certainly a challenge for all of us to manage to balance the factors of production in order to make Bulgaria a place for living to keep qualified and successful people, and whether we are late, the situation in the labour market and demographic policy will show. As members of the European Union, where freedom of movement for people, goods and capital is guaranteed, it is a challenge to be competitive not only in terms of investment but in terms of demand and supply of the workforce. With the current labour force deficit, wage hikes are inevitable and the market demands it. Investments in education in this context are one of the important priorities of our governance, as a secondary effect we expect to lead to an increase in the quality of the workforce that the economy needs. The increase in incomes of pedagogical staff does not mean that automatically at the outcome of secondary education we will have functional literate young people ready for the labour market, but we have accepted that it is a prerequisite for better educated and motivated teachers to enter the Bulgarian schools. If we go back to the time the left nostalgically turned to, then in secondary school there were 30% of the most educated Bulgarian citizens, 30% of the best graduates entered the Bulgarian school. Unfortunately, this trend has been reversed for a long time now. Nearly 900 million. lv. There are more resources allocated to social costs, to energy aid, to disabled people, to pensions. For balancing inflation pressure caused mainly by external costs, such as the appreciation of energy products and other raw materials and trading on international markets, we offer a 50% increase in heating aid, which is nominally expressed, is 44.4 million. lv. more on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and in fact by the end of this year for the heating season 2018 - 2019 we decided to apply the increased amounts of support and the government has already allocated an additional 21 million. lv. about this policy. We made a commitment of 150 million. lv. to people with disabilities and their parents with regard to ensuring the financial framework of the new regulatory framework relating to vulnerable groups of society. We reflect in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy the new kind of monthly support for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent, here the amount of the aid is set for the following year at 115 BGN. and an additional 7 million. lv. nominal on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Retirement incomes grow following the mechanism laid down by the pension reform. The system by which specialists believe that they should grow is called the Golden Swiss Rule. In our view, the moment has not come when we can do long-term experiments, even more good times in the economic cycle do not suggest this to be a first priority. It is important to increase incentives for workers at the moment when there should be a maximum close link between real income and contribution to the system. In this sense, it is positive and the significant increase in the ceiling of the pensions is almost half a billion additional funds for municipalities, and this resource will reach in horizontal policies to a large part of our citizens. The new moments in the part of the budgetary framework for municipalities are linked, according to our understanding, to the introduction of a fairer model for determining budgetary relations with the state budget by improving the mechanisms for allocating the target subsidy for capital expenditure and the common matching subsidy. Smaller municipalities will get more, municipalities with medium-term economic development will get less, and the richest municipalities that have access over the years to this kind of Cohesion Fund, called a matching subsidy, will lose access to these resources. The fact that the model is working also shows that the matching subsidy in the project for next year is predominantly increasing for the poorest region in Bulgaria. It gets 114% increase compared to this year. We also fulfil our commitments to NATO by complying with the requirement to achieve defence costs to the defined percentage of gross domestic product in accordance with the National Defence Expenditure Increase Plan by 2 percent of Bulgaria's GDP by 2024. In the budgetary framework for next year, defence expenditure reaches 1.58 percent of gross domestic product or in nominal terms 1 billion. The Commission Three hundred thousand. lv. The funds for the three major investment projects of the army are also guaranteed: planes, ships, fighting equipment for the Land Forces. I have always stated that we should not rush to reach the numbers previously agreed within the Alliance, however, the fact is that the commitments that we have cannot be ignored lightly and for 2024, although I have heard in this House and various opinions, we cannot ignore reaching up to 2% of gross domestic product. In conclusion, Madam President, the draft State Budget Act covers all sectoral policies. It follows the structure of the state authorities of government by ensuring detailed and comprehensive provision of resources and the possibility of fulfilling their commitments. We have tried to comply strictly with the principles adopted by us for maintaining fiscal stability and not to parametrically alter tax policy. In our view, predictability largely guarantees sustainable development of the economy and does not imply an increase in the share of state intervention in it. There was a lot of criticism that the budget was not reforming. We are ready to discuss any reform that is not self-target and leads to better development of individual systems, but the reform itself should not lead to a change in the functioning of certain systems, but to a more effective and more useful one for the Bulgarian citizens. In this sense, anyone who uses the word "reform" as a criticism of the budget must say what? I conclude by stating that the budget is not pre-election. We're working on the election budget. It is largely contained in the proposed medium-term fiscal framework, but we will look at it at the end of 2020, colleagues, because the elections for the next parliament, at least as we see the development of government, will be in 2021. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u316	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u317	Thank you. Madam President, I ask that the hall be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Georgi Georgiev Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stoyan Andonov Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Magdalenchev High Judicial Council, as well as Mr. Dobrin Penjurov, Vladimir Petrov and Nadezhda Genova from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 121 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the post to the hall. Mr. Magdalinchev, please come to the stand and present the Opinion on the budget of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u319	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! The Supreme Judicial Council on the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on the Judiciary adopts the draft budget for the judiciary, determines the composition and organisation of its work and ensures the financial and technical activities of the judiciary bodies without interfering with its implementation. The Supreme Judicial Council on Constitution provides and upholds the independence of the judiciary. The proposed draft budget for 2019 and the updated budgetary forecasts for 2020 and 2021 of the judiciary are in line with the forecasts for an optimal amount of funds for the proper functioning of the judicial institutions. The draft budget of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase the efficiency of the judiciary at the level corresponding to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. In preparing the estimates in the 2019 draft budget, the objective needs of the number of magistrates and judicial officers determined in relation to the number of judicial proceedings and the rate of their increase as well as the action of Table 1 for determining the salaries of magistrates and the Single Classifier for the positions in the judiciary are used. The reports were developed on the basis of the established budgets for 2018 of the judicial authorities, providing for additional costs necessary for its normal functioning, ensuring the swift administration of justice and the establishment of information systems for the implementation of electronic justice. The draft budget for 2019 and the updated budgets and forecasts for 2020 and 2021 of the judiciary shall take into account the instructions of the Ministry of Finance for drawing up the draft budget for 2019. Funds are provided for securing the main functions and activities related to the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, part of which entered into force this year. The draft budget for the judiciary for 2019 amounts to 769 million. 400,000. BGN, and for subsequent years in estimates, 811 million respectively. 400,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, $800,000. lv. For the year 2021, the Commission shall submit to the The funds for salaries in 2019 are indexed against the established budget by 17%, and for each subsequent year by 10% in order to apply the statutory requirements which determine the remuneration in the judiciary. For the estimated period, funds are provided for additional remuneration of magistrates in the judicial authorities on the basis of the level of workload higher than the average for each year for the relevant judicial authority in the amount of three basic salaries in accordance with the provision of art. 233, para. 6 sentence first of the Law on the Judiciary. In accordance with art. 233, para. Article 6 second sentence and Article 6 (2) 345, para. 5 of the Judicial Law provides funds for additional remuneration of magistrates and judicial officers from the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Specialized Prosecutor's Office in the amount of three basic salaries each year. The draft budget for the courts of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 and 2020 provides for support funds in accordance with the provisions of art. 360f of the Law on the Judiciary and the Ordinance on the conduct of procedural actions and certification statements in electronic form. On the basis of art. 30, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on the Judiciary in the Draft Budget are laid down funds for the management of the real estate of the judiciary. Support and capital expenditure for 2019 are provided for e-Justice, which are included in the E-Management and Information and Communication Technologies Report provided by the State Agency. The revenue from the activities of the judicial authorities of the amount of 116 million for the three years is in line with the policy of equal access to justice, whereby the extension of the scope of the judicial activity excludes the introduction of market mechanisms in the provision of legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. It should be noted that the growth of legal proceedings is not possible to relate to a significant increase in proceeds from judicial fees due to the high share of criminal and administrative proceedings exempt by a law from state charges. The estimated revenue is realistic when changes in the regulations are taken into account in their production and economic and statistical methods of analysis are used, in line with the forecasts for the changed macroeconomic environment. An emergency and unforeseen expenditure reserve of 900 thousand has been added. lv. for the three years. The development in the expenditure section of the draft budget for the judiciary for 2019 and the updated budgetary forecasts for 2020 and 2021 provides for financial provision for the main indicators and policies subject to the activities of all those working in the judiciary in the Republic of Bulgaria. The main policies and programmes in the area of the judiciary are: Policy 1 - Implementation of justice and judicial authority in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and the state and includes activities of all courts in the Republic of Bulgaria. Three programmes are divided into this policy. The funds provided for are at the rate of 412 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Policy 2 "Conservation of legality in the Republic of Bulgaria" and includes the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Four programmes are allocated and the funds under this programme amount to 279 million. 900,000. lv. Policy 3 "Management and organization of the work of the judiciary without violating its independence" also includes the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 18 million. lv. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Policy 4 - Strengthening of the professional qualification of the requesting authorities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The necessary means to implement each policy are 3 million. $700,000. lv. The policy includes the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and three programmes to the Supreme Judicial Council. It is estimated to amount to 8 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. Politics 6 "Electronical justice" includes an electronic system for carrying out all procedural actions provided for in the Law by the judicial authorities in electronic form. The necessary funds amount to 10 million. 400,000. lv. Policy 7 "Management of the real estate of the judiciary" includes the implementation of major renovations of judicial buildings, insurance and tax funds, construction supervision activities and investor control. This policy provides for 36 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. The proposed draft budget of the judiciary on the opinion of the Council of Ministers differs from the amount of expenditure approved by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council by 65 million. $100,000. BGN, which is mainly funds for remuneration and capital expenditure. The proposal of the Ministry of Finance shall include remuneration expenses under art. 233, para. 6 sentences first and second and second and art. 345, para. 5 of the Law on the Judiciary in the amount of one basic salary, and in the proposal of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council the same amount of three basic salaries, provided that the Law on the Judicial Authority had foreseen up to six basic monthly salaries. The increase from 1 January 2019 of salary funds in the proposed budget project by the Ministry of Finance amounts to 10%, while the Plenum estimates of the Supreme Judicial Council set a 17% increase in wages based on the expected average salary in the budget sphere in the last quarter of 2018 compared to the lowest salary. Table 1 sets the maximum basic monthly salaries for magistrates. Unlike those employed in the executive power, for whom a possibility is envisaged four times...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u320	Get it over with, Mr. Magdalenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u321	Yeah, I'm done. ...the Law on the Judiciary does not present such an opportunity for magistrates and judicial officers. Notwithstanding the above, after meetings with the Ministry of Finance and the proposed new estimates for the budget of the judiciary in the Draft Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council held at its meeting of 29 October 2018, taking into account the possibilities for allocation of the budget for 2019, adopted a decision expressing a positive opinion on the draft draft of the Council of Ministers for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 in its part on the budget of the judiciary, despite the difference of 61 million. $100,000. lv. between the proposed draft budget by the judiciary and that proposed in the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Bill. We will take the necessary action to deal with the so-established budget of the judiciary. Members of Parliament, to conclude, I should point out that priority in the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2019 is the establishment of a well-functioning and transparent judicial system to ensure effective enforcement of laws, to provide security to citizens, legal persons and the state and to protect respect for their rights and legitimate interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Magdalenchev. Colleagues, we're moving on to the debate. First one has the floor, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the Minister of Finance will come to the Chamber and perhaps listen and watch on screen, but we should start the debate anyway. To start with the following: naturally, the parliamentary group of the European Parliament will not support this budget. However, this is not the purpose of my speech to tell you something that is not surprising to you. I will try to analyze the most widely advertised budget for the last maybe 30 years: the largest, the most generous, the unique, the pride of the government and perhaps of all governments so far. Of course, at the heart of this advertising campaign are the many costs, the increase in payments to individual groups, salaries, etc. Let us try to do a sober economic analysis of the budget, which I am firmly convinced that those present in this House do not regard as a bag of money for social payments, because that is not what the budget is. The budget is also a tool for social payments and for social distribution and equality, and so on, but it is the main economic instrument, the main financial instrument for making economic policy. I will examine this budget in terms of macroeconomic indicators, in terms of revenue, expenditure and their effectiveness. My purely macroeconomic opinion is that the budget does not reflect the cycle of economic development. The budget does not support growth. For several years the Bulgarian economy has been on the rise, in economic growth. The highest of these growths was in 2017, then growth declined slightly. A careful analysis of growth shows that it is not due to government policies, unfortunately. It is mainly due to increased consumption, and it is due to transfers from both Bulgarians who work abroad and the costs that are made for the essential goods, whose prices have increased. When we talk about consumption as a pump of growth, we always say that this is the most unstable pump of growth. I remember that last year from this tribune, the finance minister said that there is a danger that the Bulgarian economy will overheat. Yes, there is such a danger and it is always in terms of consumption. What do you do this year? To open a clamp: expenditures increased by 10 billion for 2018 and 2019. BGN, approximately 5.1 and 4.9 billion. Ten billion leva is a very serious amount for the Bulgarian economy. First, this amount inflates inflation as much of the goods being consumed are from imports. This, of course, worsens the trade balance, worsens the balance of payments. Mostly, however, inflation pump and slows growth. This will do next year this budget, as this year makes it budget 2018. Unreal is the forecast for inflation, as real 3.6% inflation was achieved in the past quarter, without reflecting the appreciation of fuel prices, gas, steam, a number of other commodities, and what will follow after the increase of some of the prices at the end of the year. Inflation of the order of 5 - 5.5% predict most of the economic observers and analysts. This inflation, in addition to slowing growth, will eat some of the increases in these costs that will be made. He'll definitely eat the increase in pensions, so don't brag about it! The other thing he's gonna eat is an increase in wages. However, it will have a strong macroeconomic impact on the economic cycle. The second thing that the budget is not in line with the economic cycle is that in the years of growth, the budget must be basically a surplus. We need to save enough budget resources to meet the costs when the economy starts to fall or enter a recession. Here we need to open a clamp and say more. The costs envisaged this year and next year are inflexible, that is to say they are such that once they have been made, they will also have to be incurred in all subsequent years, at least those. I ask: what will happen to these costs if the economy enters into recession, as there are already warnings about the European economy, and by serious analysts? We're going to go into deficits of the order of 2 billion. What are we going to cover them with when we don't have money saved from the years when the economy is growing, there is no answer. I therefore argue that this budget does not support economic growth, does not reflect the economic cycle in which the country is located. Of course, there is still much to be said about macroeconomic imbalances, but in the context of such a speech, especially if we want to cover more indicators, there is no way I can speak in detail. Let's get to the revenue section. The incomes are increasing. The minister of finance said just now, up to 38.3.4 points from the gross domestic product. Let me tell you, colleagues, yes, this is within 40%, which Bulgaria has observed in recent years, and rightly to support growth and the economy, but let's say that they are increasing by 2 percentage points compared to this year and increasing because you are increasing the tax burden. You increase it absolutely every year when you make the budget. They are increasing through the supplier of GERB, if I may say so, the increase in the insurance burden of raising thresholds and so on. This happens every year, with absolutely every budget. They're increasing through excise duties. Yes, excise duties have some kind of schedule here I can agree with, but anyway it represents an increase in the tax burden. They're increasing through countless taxis. Look at the revenue in the budget from fees. They are absolutely insane for the European budget. Several percent of gross domestic product is revenue from fees, whether it be public, or municipal. This also increases the tax burden, but also the pressure on the business and on the Bulgarian citizens. The so widely proclaimed increase in revenue as a result of the actions of the revenue agencies of the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency, if we look at it in detail, is not exactly the case. Why is the VAT increasing? As a result of collection? It is not a result of collection, but a result of increased prices, of inflation, above all! From this point of view, we have nothing to boast about the revenue side. It remains, and you have very rightly concentrated on what I have been listening to for the last ten days, the cost portion. You see, this budget gives the most, this budget supports teachers' salaries, increases education money, increases health money and so on. Several moments in the spending area, honourable Members. Firstly, the incorrect planning continues, the inaccurate planning of the budget itself. High capital costs are planned, which are not spent and then the surplus of unspent capital expenditure is spent by a decree of the Council of Ministers, so-called discretionary spending of public funds. Discussion is a bad thing when it comes to spending public funds. This is the power that you have given it yourself, translated into a financial language. The decrees of the Council of Ministers, in most cases, surround this body here, which must clearly and accurately determine all the costs of both the Constitution and the State Budget Act. I do not want to say that you are violating the Public Finance Act, but this is how it was done by you in 2012 that allows this discretionary spending of public expenditure. Just so you know, for 2017, this spending is 7% of all costs. How do you like it? Check with the European budgets and you'll see where we are. This practice must be discontinued. It increases the inefficiency of public expenditure and this is the other big topic when we talk about costs. What is the lack of public spending, but what is their effectiveness? Because if we talk about increasing public spending, we should immediately ask ourselves: is this improving public sector services? Look at the charts that are made more efficient at public spending, and there, of course, we are in one of the last places. At least six of the sectors under consideration in these studies, our efficiency, the efficiency of spending public spending in Bulgaria, is much lower than the European one. Why, then, are we boasting that we spend more public spending when their efficiency is so low? Another important point when we analyze public spending and their effectiveness is what do these costs actually achieve? [[Reply from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u324	Extension of the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u325	We are not opposed to increasing wages. A moment ago, the finance minister said: you are talking about reforms, that in this budget, as in the previous ones, there are no necessary reforms, we are open to a dialogue on reforms. I will not talk about reforms only give two examples: what reforms have been carried out in the education sector? Honorable colleagues, when you came to power in 2009, the children who were learning to write are now finishing their secondary education. During this time nothing has changed except that the whole business and labor market say that Bulgarian education gives unnecessary specialties and illiterate people in the labour market. The second example is health care. When you came to power in 2009, the cost of health care was about 2.5 billion. Today, there are about 5 billion of them twice as many. Will anyone in this Chamber or any of the Bulgarian citizens say that the quality of Bulgarian education has increased? Does anyone have that feeling? What reforms are we talking about here? Ten years you're in power, except for a ten-year increase in all costs in all sectors and quality is this! I won't give him an assessment. Give him to you. So when we talk and try to advertise a budget, let's be sober! The wide opportunities that growth gives us are not being used. Growth was not supported. There was no analysis of this growth in terms of what policies would speed it up. No analysis has been carried out over the years and now the cost of public spending. This is a sober estimate of a budget. Everything else is advertising, which, frankly, you do not need, not to mention the Bulgarian citizens, not to mention the Bulgarian economy and the business. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u326	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u327	Thank you, Madam President! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. There is no such case in Europe, in the European Union, to adopt a country's budget without the presence of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the scandalous exit of the first financier of Bulgaria. Madam President, this is disrespect for Parliament in a parliamentary republic of which you are chairman. Can you call the Minister of Finance here in the Chamber, at least listen to what the MPs say? Otherwise, if he does not come, I ask for a 10-minute break on behalf of a group, hopefully he will come here, respect the Bulgarian Parliament and all the people who voted for this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u328	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please, Quaestors, invite the Minister of Finance to enter the Chamber. Mr. Gechev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u329	Dear Madam President, honourable Members and Ministers! My speech rests entirely on numbers, statistics and assessments of the European Union, Eurostat, BNB, the National Economic Institute and the analyses of the ministries of finance of Germany, France and Italy, Britain and some other countries. Firstly, honourable Members, on the basis of the Minister of Finance's report on the 3-year budget framework, let us see what objectives are set with this budget. Dear colleagues, the red light is blinking very hard because 2018 I quote Mr. Goranov's report: the economic growth of the gross domestic product is 3.6%. Next year, it's up 0.1% and 3.7%. Take a look, Mr. Goranov, you've recorded: 2020. "3.5%'; 2021 "3.5%'. That is, the government of the Republic of Bulgaria offers us a fiscal fiscal policy that leads to slowing economic growth. We compare the economic growth of the world, assessments of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The growth was weighted on average over the 3-year period "3.7%." That is, this government is betting on fairy tales are one thing, but growth is below the growth of the world economy by two tenths. Moreover, the growth of developing countries in the assessment of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission is 4.7% over the 3-year period. For Bulgaria, growth decreased 3.5%. There is no way to agree to a budgetary and fiscal policy that leads to a decline in growth. We compare the proposed growth with what is happening in the world economy and what is happening in the European Union and developing countries. Secondly, there are problems with Bulgaria's trade balance regarding imports and exports. I quote the government's report: the output of the growth rate of 2.3%, 2.8%, 2.8%, 2.7%. 2021, of the imports of the government's 5,3% for 2018, 4,6% for 2021. That is to say, the government offers an accelerated increase in Bulgaria's trade deficit. How does he change? The government this year tells us that it will be negative 4.1%.. i.e. a trade balance deficit, often tells us that next year will be negative 6.1% and 6.9% in 2021. That is, a slowdown in economic growth, a deterioration in the trade balance, which is said in ordinary language, do you know what it means? Recognition that the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy under this fiscal policy will decrease. Besides, let's see what's going on in the neighboring countries. We have already said, we have warned that since we are the last in the European Union, honourable Members, forget about comparisons with France, Germany, Italy, not to mention Japan and other countries. Romania is our goal -- the last country of the European Union -- which, for starters, we need to make efforts to shift from the last place in order to be able, in some perspective, to get closer to the European Union's averages. Dear colleagues, for your information: you are opening Romania's budget forecasts and policies and you see that 2016 and 2019 average growth is 4.5%, which means that the previous one is moving by 25% because one percent and something is the difference faster than Bulgaria. That is, Romania is beginning to draw closer to the last, while Bulgaria has reached the bottom of the European Union and we are continuing to dig, as Romania has growth according to Eurostat 6.9%. That is, colleagues, 3.7% growth is better than 2%, it is better than that the Bulgarian economy is in recession, but the worry is that this policy does not lead us to the approach, the reduction of the distance with the previous one, as it moves at much more speed. In addition, Hungary's growth is 4.5%, Poland's growth is within the limits of Bulgaria's growth. We do not in any way reduce the difference even with the Eastern European countries. Dear colleagues, what is the main problem? The main problem is that in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria there is not something that exists in the budgets of all other EU member states, including Romania, and it is called a special investment fund, long-term, aimed at developing our economies. Germany has a 15-year horizon of investment policy broken down by year. France has plans for the future of France - investment policy 130 billion, distributed over the years, with specific budget injections, including nuclear energy. I'll give you an example: EDF is a French electricity company that, oh, heavens, is 84% state-owned. They not only invest in the renovation of their nuclear reactors in France, but now EDF has signed contracts and started building a new nuclear power plant in Britain with the help of the French government, financing credit lines of its state-owned company along with the Chinese Communist Party. The Central Committee grants funds for investment in new nuclear plants in the UK. That's what they do to France, Germany, Italy, Romania. What's going on with the investment? Dear colleagues, we are in a national disaster with foreign investment. Yeah, I'm not exaggerating. What's the data? In 2007, before the recession, we have 9 billion euros per year of investment - direct and foreign. This year, from January to the end of August, we have about 230 million direct and foreign investments. Last year we had about 800 million investments at the time. Make a difference. Calculate the difference between last year and this year the same period from January to August. Let's assume that by the end of the year it will be 350 million direct foreign investments. This will come out about a third of last year's investment and will come out about 30 times less than the investment before the crisis. Do we have an excuse? We have no excuse because in neighbouring Romania, foreign direct investments have been increased by 726 million. EUR; Hungary with more than 2 billion EUR; in the Czech Republic, 1 billion 144 million; in Slovakia, 527 million. Pay attention, I say it with pain! Foreign investors are panicking around Bulgaria. In all neighbouring countries, investments are growing, including Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. How can we not worry, honourable Members? In this situation the question arises what happens to the overall level of investments in Bulgaria? The good news is that as foreign investment collapses, there is some growth in domestic investment. Okay, but the Minister of Finance's report shows a straight line in the last four, five years. By summarizing the negative of foreign investments with the plus of domestic investments, there is a straight line of total investments in Bulgaria. Do you know what a straight line looks like? If you've seen the movies in cardiology at the end, when the patient is stuck, you get a straight line. [[Noise and lines.]] And this straight line, unfortunately, is 3.7% where we're hanging. And I honestly admit, the government says to itself that growth decreases the other two years. We can't agree. Apart from reducing foreign investment, the government says nothing in the budget how it compensates for the export of investments from Bulgaria. And we open Eurostat and BNB - 2017 fly away from Bulgaria more than 220 million. Euros. [[Reply.]] Yeah, 220 million. Euros more! Looking at these investments and the impact on the Bulgarian economy, the question is: after foreign investments surround Bulgaria as they increase in all other countries, since domestic investments are not enough, they are not stimulated to stimulate the growth of Bulgaria, what do other countries and peoples do? It's written in the books on business history. They increase investment budget expenditures to help their economy speed up economic growth. There is nothing sensational. More than that. It was mentioned by a colleague who spoke before me, Mr. Tsonev, what is the exact data. The Ministry of Finance says that since 2009 it has planned for years 48 billion. lv. for the so-called capital expenditure. And how much they spent by collecting them in their reports..38 billion. lv.? I mean very clever: 10 billion. lv. not spent, but reported as great successes, budget surpluses, fiscal reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, you have violated the Budget Act. You have not fulfilled the decision of the National Assembly, which has told you how much you must spend. You have deprived the Bulgarian economy of 10 billion. lv. We've turned 10 billion into several econometric models, including published by other analytical centers. Do you know what happens? For this period of almost 10 years, Bulgaria's gross domestic product, calculated by the reverse multiplier, costs between 32 billion and 37 billion. lv. Do you know what that means? According to Eurostat, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the gross domestic product per capita of Bulgaria is 8 thousand. $10,000, Romania's about $10,000. 100.. 10 thousand. $200. If you calculated again, if additional investments were invested in the economy 10 billion, as the Law requires, then the gross domestic product per person of the population of Bulgaria would be slightly larger than Romania's. But no, it's not done! That is why we are now wondering where to compensate for growth. In addition, along with the problems of investment, we also have problems in social disintegration. We offer in the alternative budget such a fund of one billion and two hundred million industrial zones to attract foreign investment because, as people say, bran monkeys are not fishing. To attract foreign investment, there must be a state policy, and they are not enough at the moment. We offer a billion and 200 million for industrial zones; 700 million for leveling the regional levels of Bulgaria, as you all know what is going on in the province. The lack of such an investment policy for equalising the regions has another tragedy. The tragedy is about social disintegration. According to EUROSTATE data, the Ginny Index, which shows how much people own, in Bulgaria is 40, the average of the European Union is 30. The less it is, the more socially fair it is. The former countries: Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland are between 26 and 29, even some of them are better than the average European indicators. Finally, I will conclude with this: the government boasts about government spending and government debt. Look, the government debt is not in the Eurozone, but is 80% of the gross domestic product. We're not saying it should be 80%, let it be 60%. But you can't brag about low shares of government debt in gross domestic product, as you're still very far away, but you're getting close to Burundi in Africa, it's 14.4%; Swaziland is only 10%; Afghanistan is 7.6%. In other words, the developed countries have a high share of debt - Afghans, Taliban, Burundins have a slightly lower share than Bulgaria, so this cannot be an excuse. It's a big budget. He and Titanic was very big, but he sank. So put on your life jackets and swim to early elections. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u330	Thank you, Professor Gechev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I love it very much when Professor Gechev and our fellow citizen Yordan Tsonev speak. The two are extremely interested and serious about the future of Bulgaria, so they do not look back at what they have done. In this regard, I would like to ask Professor Gechev: when has Bulgaria been ahead of Romania in the last 140 years? Never! Bulgaria has always been where it is now. Secondly, I would like to ask: in which government, in which years did the great plunder of Bulgaria take place? Who made the schematic for her looting? I want you to answer and tell me which party has the most multimillionaires of those in parliament? I'm shutting down the DPS Corporation, not there. [[DPS lines.]] The budget has something to do with it. You're a major budget specialist...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u332	Mr. Petrov, please continue your thought without arguing with the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u333	We know that you are a great specialist, Mr. Tsonev, from Burgas. You know very well about budgets. I ask as a cue a question to Professor Gechev: why, Professor Gechev, after you say that Bulgaria has low government debt, you were one of the most vocal opponents of the borrowing of 200 million. euros with 0,1% interest that Bulgaria took? You were the biggest opponent in the room. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u334	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line? I can't see. Professor Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u335	I have to admit, I'm in a lot of trouble, but I'm gonna mobilize. Dear colleague, of course, you are not an economist, you do not have to know, but I will return you to 1989 when Romanians were learning Bulgarian language to watch Bulgarian television as theirs worked two hours a day. In developed countries they have 50 channels and work 24 hours. If a country had two hours of television and watched Bulgarian and without being an economist, it was probably worse. In addition, the Romanians and they have decreased.. thank you for your question, my sovereign debt. Mr. Ceausescu took it down to zero percent, only after that, he had some unconventional face-to-face things, not just because of the debt. But, as you know, in Romania they stopped the steam of kindergartens. They paid it off for 7 years, strained the Romanian people and now they still have 40% debt against gross domestic product. So I assure you that by ranking, not by industrialization and other indicators, Bulgaria, thank God, was better than Romania. But it was worse than Poland, Czechoslovakia, the GDR and other reasons. That's true. But we've always been better for Romania. Regarding the looting, you should contact the prosecution and the investigation. I can tell you that I personally do not own any action, I have not participated in the privatisation of enterprises, of companies. You'll be looking for them at the ones where 10 million white money for a rainy day comes out in the shoe boxes. You will also search for them in the surroundings of those who go around public procurement. But I'm not here to blame. These are questions to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, investigation and the Bulgarian Court of Justice. And as far as I'm concerned, I couldn't figure out what loan I was against. I am against loans that will be spent without being clear about what. However, a fellow Member, if the loan is within the framework of European constraints and, if it is aimed at investing through a public private partnership, you will agree, that is what everyone does and that is what is profited from. It's no coincidence that leading companies around the world use loans. Have you heard of General Motors or Simons with zero credits? There's no such thing! But you have to be careful with credit, because a lot of companies are going bankrupt. As for interest of 0.1%, I've never heard of one? Such interest rates are paid to the Federal Reserve, but there is a slightly different story in money laundering. But if you find that kind of loan of 0.1% anywhere, give me a call. We'll take it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u336	Thank you, dear Professor Gechev. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. Mrs. Yankova, after her Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u337	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the Parliament! I will make a brief reading of what will happen in 2019 through the budget for the regional development of Bulgaria. I believe that the in-depth inter-regional contrasts that we now have on the territory of the country will continue to deepen with this budget. In parallel with this, honourable Members, the great pride of GERB the roads, in the Report of the Ministry of Regional Development it is written that the construction of the highway ring will be completed. It will not end because the long-declared reform and a new policy with the tol system, which was expected to be about 1 billion, will start in August and are expected, God forbid, in the best possible way about 263 million. So we're going to be left with the billings, which may be about 350 million. I have an alert on the highways and on the third-class road infrastructure. I hope you do too. There will be no progress in the year ahead. Not to mention the city roads. The Association of Municipalities was one. He asked for 110 million as a small pardon not to give out funds by decree, but he got less. I think the municipal road infrastructure will sink too. I believe that what has been written in the Programme of the Government for a targeted impact with separate programs and policies did not happen with Minister Nankov. I hope Minister Avramova will be more active, but since this in the eight years of GERB management was not a model of behavior, here will again lied the big cities and sink the rest. At first speed, some of the district cities will go, some of the territories will go in reverse. I'm addressing you, colleagues, find the strength to stimulate the polycentric pattern. The periphery of district cities, where there are still people who want to live, to use services, to sink. This refusal of polycentric impact on the territory stimulates demographic processes and problems. Soon in my foster home, a citizen said: I will deal, I will have about 100 sheep, but I want to start a family nearby to have a school, to have health services. This says, at the moment I am very far away, that is, we should see, stimulating the holding of the country, how it can influence through the additional services offered by the Bulgarian state. We still have white fields as an impact on certain territories and that's years of politics. The Regional Minister can't fight it. The team of the Council of Ministers cannot decide on these issues. I will also focus on the Energy Efficiency Programme. Colleagues, this year will be the echo, you will end the 2019 Programme of these 2022 blocs. However, 2016, at the same time, when these 2022 blocs filed documents, submitted documents, and the Development Bank has further 2500 applications. For four years, the government has been silent and hasn't said anything. It could be, or we expect something pre-election to make a decision next year, but there is no politics here! The Finance Minister says: think about it, offer other financial instruments. The Minister of Regional Development did not dare, the previous minister said: this was the wrong approach, that is, we neither had a solidarity nor a national one, but most of the blocks we created are waiting for the other part. We have an unfairly created program that is currently giving nothing! Here the government, you, the ruling coalition owe a response to these 2500 housing blocks! And I think of the favorite municipalities where most of them are yours. It's a modest attitude. Yes, the money for delegated activities has little support, you rely primarily on European funds. However, these distortions, such as demographics and politics, these services, which are provided to some citizens in large cities, to some normal services in the territory of the country, we divide the citizens, to them they are much more expensive. Dear colleagues, the honourable government, I would like to end this with this budget, with the policy that is set in it, inter-regional differences will be thorough, and they will continue to stimulate deep and severe demographic processes. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u338	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Do you have any lines, colleagues? I won't. You have the floor to speak, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u339	Thank you. Dear Bulgarian citizens, we are looking at the most important Law on whose decisions the life of every Bulgarian family depends on. What will happen today will enter every home in the next 2019, but the ruling majority will vote on this law without a single statement, obviously. You make up your mind why this is so! We will not only analyse their budget, we will use the opportunity and the little time we have as a parliamentary group to say something about the alternative, and is it possible? Until now, colleagues have spoken with the numbers, with the arguments of finance, economic logic and processes. I would like us to look at the budget in another way, a different view of the problems that you, dear Bulgarians, point out as the most important to you and how the government budget solves them or does not solve them, how the alternative of BSP solves them or not. By many criteria, I will refer to independent sources, not to political ones, because of objectivity. The most important for you and for Bulgaria are the demographic catastrophe, poor quality of healthcare and its inaccessibility, education that does not meet the needs of business and the economy, poverty and inequalities. Let's see if the government is trying to solve these issues, and how? It is clear that in order to decide, above all, there must be an economy, growth, production and investment. Mr. Goranov and all of the government in recent weeks claim how good economic growth there is, what a good forecast for the coming years. Of course, the numbers don't match that. In 2017, their economic growth, as set out in the budget, is 3.8, will be 3.5 in 2020. You may conclude whether this is a growing economic upsurge or the opposite! More important, however, is what is happening today? The National Statistical Institute has just made it worse, not just anyone, but the State National Statistical Institute says that you, compatriots, think that your assessment of the economic situation in the country is as follows, your concern is inflation and you say: our consumer confidence falls by 3.2 points from July to October only, the trend is similar in cities and villages. And I won't go on! A report by the National Statistical Institute, which, Mr. Minister, gives an assessment not only of what you are proposing for 2019, but of the stable and serious economic growth that you had in 2018. You said in your statement that you are betting on the development of investments for both this and the following year. Now let's see which investments, fellow Members? I will refer to an analysis of the Bulgarian Industrial Association (BIA), that is to say the Bulgarian business, which says only a month ago is its analysis that for the 10-year period under consideration (this is the management of Boyko Borisov) foreign direct investment has decreased 10 times in absolute value and 14 times as a percentage of gross domestic product. The forecasts for 2019, 2020 and so on are no better than this finding except one, and it is as follows that a very large part of these investments, not to say the prevailing ones, represent the money of Bulgarians working abroad and send them to their families in Bulgaria. That's what BIA says! Dear Minister, if you say the sentence: We rely on investments in order to have economics and growth in 2019......................................... That would be objective! This is your growth in investment and economic growth. Then in your address you said: competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy and how much you bet on it. That's how much! World Economic Forum for 2018, which explores competitiveness between one hundred and several countries: Bulgaria - 51 place, together with Uruguay and Bahrain. And to end these macroeconomic indicators such as investments and competitiveness, but in this part of my speech to raise one question. At the same time, when the state does not guarantee conditions, neither for substantial foreign investments, nor for growth as a result of production and economy, the state and next year will continue through the government of Borisov 3 to plunder the remaining profitable state assets in the economy of the country, specifically by giving Sofia the lenses of concession under conditions that I will not comment on many times, we will have the opportunity tomorrow. I appeal to the United Patriarchs. Dear colleagues, you are always referring to management programmes, to election programmes. Won't your hands shake by pressing the button with which you will now allow Borisov's government next year to grant the concession the most important strategic object of Bulgaria's national security? [[Noise and lines.]] Where are you, Mr. Volen Siderov, who from this tribune you wanted from Mr. Valeri Simeonov revision of all concessions, of the gold concessions, stopping these concessions? Now you will press the button with which you will give a concession, I say again, the most important object for national security. This is the policy of the government of Borisov and the United patriots who otherwise implement the program of the coalition. Further on from the problems that people consider most important, how will the budget solve them? Second is the demographic disaster after the economy. Question: how does this budget of the government support the process of overcoming the demographic crisis? Well, not at all! Not at all. There is no measure! And this is how the most social budget works for the demographic catastrophe: freeze child benefit from raising a child from 1 to 2 years old; freeze monthly child support; freeze one-off help during pregnancy; freeze single child care at birth. The same is in the birth of twins, the same in the adoption of a child; freeze child support for female mothers; freeze single help for first-graders; freeze guaranteed minimum income. And not to go on: seven more such social payments, oriented towards young families, giving birth and raising children. Everything is frozen in the otherwise most social budget, which is oriented to fight the demographic crisis! I'm sorry you didn't hear the voice of reason, the alternative and the BSP and you didn't accept the family income tax, nor the help for a second child, which we offer from BGN 6400, nor the free textbooks for children up to the XII grade and a number of measures that we proposed in our alternative budget. But yes, it is now your job, it will be our policy to make it happen when we win elections and run the country. It is important that the alternative has it and that what you are doing is not unalternative. Next problem, according to Bulgarian citizens, of course, not according to our political addictions. Poor quality and inaccessibility of health care! Dear governors, you are boasting that you are giving nearly 500 million money in healthcare and this is also an element of the most social budget. Can someone come out and explain to me what the effect of this increase will be? Is this effect calculated in the following directions? Will this money reduce the payments every Bulgarian makes when he goes to the doctor? Say: we, the government, give 500 million, but when you go to the doctor, you will no longer be forced to pay over a table or under a table. There is nothing like this in this policy and this budget! Is that money you're pouring in there gonna lower your drug prices? No! Will this money provide emergency assistance or hospital for the mother from Svishtov who has to give birth to her child by traveling to Veliko Tarnovo? No! Will there be more doctors and nurses missing in cities and villages in the country thanks to the 500 million? No! Well, then, what are you doing? Because people ask this: will we have a doctor, a hospital, will the drugs be expensive? You do nothing with this most social budget because you do not solve any of these real problems and you do not take back the vote of the alternative at least to reduce the VAT of medicines, to make a regional distribution of hospital and hospital care and so on, for which I do not have much time. The next problem is poverty, inequalities and income. The social budget what it does in the following situation, we ask you: 1 million 660 thousand people working already, I talk about working poor, declare income on average up to BGN 510. a month. A million and six hundred! Fifty-three percent of the employed earn no more than BGN 460. after tax deduction and insurance. Up to £1,000. receive 811 thousand people in Bulgaria. And don't go on! With the pensioners and those working and the young, over two and a half million live on the poverty line. And eight thousand people are writing a dividend of seven billion. lv. in Bulgaria! So how exactly does the 2019 budget solve the problem of inequality and poverty and income? How? That's how. You have increased pensions by nearly 5% since July 1st, given that the cost of water, gas, heating, electricity, bread, milk and no longer exceeds five. You increase the salaries of the administration by 10% and the minimum salary by 50 BGN. That's it, and you say we're giving 900 million for social needs. Bravo! Why don't you tell me how many billion you'll get through new taxes and an increase in old taxes, insurance and excise taxes? A billion and a half of the new taxes, increased taxes, increased excises, a billion and a half you collect from the people, I'll tell you exactly which people, and you give 900 million in the most social budget. You pick them up from the poor and the weak. Here's how: with the old car tax that you voted on; with the second-hand clothing taxes that you voted on; with the increase of the minimum insurance threshold for farmers and tobacco producers, you will take most of the money from there. From the poorest! We ask you: does this budget have at least one step to overcome inequalities in Bulgaria? And again, no hearing and intelligence about the alternative.. progressive tax, family income tax, dividend tax and so on. Everything is rejected, nothing is accepted! But the alternative is there. She's standing there waiting. On this topic, I refer again to the United Patriarchs to ask them: where is BGN 300. pension and BGN 1500 salary? Because Mr. Goranov claims that we have low taxes, although GERB increases taxes, back to their program, and that these low taxes will bring investment. Not at all! You can see the investments are retreating. [[Noise and lines.]] You're talking about an increase in income. We ask you: 300 leva. pension and BGN 1500 Where are they? You know, when you say something, you have to do... [[Relations to the right: "Until the end of the term of office! "]] Until the end of term? Well, it's only a few months away. [[Radio, applause, laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] And now we accept a budget for the whole of 2019! Most of all, however, colleagues, excuse the little emotional outburst that I am about to do the most annoys me the inequality between the political elite and the people, not so much between these two and a half million... [[Noise. Line. Proclaims: "Eee!" by GERB and OP.]] ... And that seven thousand, inequality. [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u340	Quiet, fellows!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u341	It's not the first time I've said it, and I'm consistent with it. Mr. Goranov, I want you to go out there and tell the stands the minimum salary from next year will be increased by 50 BGN. of the people, of the administration by 10%. I want you to tell me how much the salaries of MPs, ministers, prime minister, president, ombudsman, Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, judges in the SJC and the VCC will be increased. How much? And give me non-political arguments, not emotional outbursts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u342	Time, Mrs. Ninova. Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u343	You give me an argument economically, because when workers need to raise wages, we look for productivity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u344	Time's up, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u345	On the political elite, we raise wages automatically, without labour productivity. I want someone to answer me why.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u347	I conclude with this: we will not support this budget. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm done, guys. Patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u348	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u349	We will not support it, because it is a budget of the economy, because it is a budget of increased taxes for the poor people, because it is a budget of a roadlessness and without hope, which does not give perspective, because it is a budget only for the survival of the government and is a budget that is an ointment for the political and economic elite and another blow to the Bulgarian people! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u351	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, of course, as part of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, given the circumstances that I am its member, of course, that I will take account of the draft budget for 2019 as regards regional development and the activities delegated by the State, which it is obliged to secure, to finance, which municipalities provide as a service to citizens. Before I get there, as I have listened carefully to the debate until now, I am left with a great amazement. On one hand, colleagues from the DPS say: it is too social, too many payments, too much spending, no policies, no reforms, and, on the other hand, BSP colleagues say: social payments are frozen, there is no policy on levelling the standard, social inequalities. And I ask myself, where is the truth? And I'm starting to get confused about what this budget is. Let's start there when we look at specific policies or specific portfolio ministries, we can't help but look at the budget in its basic, consolidated framework. Colleagues, you talk a lot about payments, about the need to give more money to one system or another, and I will start on the other side - I believe that this budget and the opportunity that the Minister of Finance has given as a proposal, and the government, given that next year we will have gross domestic product in the order of 116 billion. BGN, I think we should, instead of comparing ourselves with some other countries, say how bad we are, curves, how well Romanians were, I think we should still congratulate the Bulgarian citizen, especially the working people who have succeeded and have developed this gross domestic product, which is why next year the state will be able to afford more than 4.5 billion. lv. costs to make. [[Radio.]] Let's start there, guys. And since you find it very funny, let's start there: in 2007 how much was the gross domestic product of the state? How much? Fifty billion leva! I'm sorry, but we're on the eve of 2019 and we're talking 116 billion. lv.! Without being an economist, there's some kind of economic logic at the end of the day. And we can't expect 50 billion. lv. Right after your governments, suddenly to become what to become, 200.. 300 billion. lv.? Well, that's not gonna happen, guys! There's some sort of economic sequence of events. If a magician's gonna come, it's not gonna happen. In my opinion, we should also appreciate the fact that the Bulgarian people and working citizens have managed to work for this decade, of course, with the support and European solidarity of other richer countries, this gross domestic product, because we are talking, again, for 4.5 billion. lv. more expenses. And, notice, in these costs at the same time, the state continues to respect its policy of reducing external debt and maintaining a very good deficit, and the idea is that it disappears in the coming years. Now, at the moment, and for the next 2019, it will be 1.5%. So we can't help but congratulate those working people who did it. As for municipalities, unprecedentedly indeed, next year will separate the state nearly 500 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more delegated activities to be provided by municipalities for citizens. At the same time, all costs, as capital expenditures, are increasing, there is more money for winter maintenance, more money for social services, more money for education. If we have to understand the essence of how money is being spent, you will see that every measure has its own policy, there is also reformist thinking. Assuming that, and Minister Goranov just mentioned the increase in the matching subsidy, I forgot to mention it a moment ago, there is a new way to allocate this matching subsidy. This is an absolute reform in the years back, for one reason or another it has distorted this matching subsidy and instead of poor municipalities to receive more money, it turns out that the richer and larger municipalities, regardless of which party they are from, because the larger municipalities are from GERB, naturally receive more money from the smaller municipalities. In fact, what the Ministry of Finance and the Budget and Finance Commission are proposing is precisely this thing to change and, in fact, those municipalities that are more deprived of receiving a higher percentage of this subsidy, and the richest municipalities, including Sofia, will not receive money from this matching subsidy, which is a living reform, exactly in the way these funds are distributed. The second, clearly shows in the delegated activities by the state the priorities that the government is carrying out. And not because it's election year. It, every year, we are in elections, and because at the beginning of the cabinet Borisov 3, and this coalition, has defined education as a major priority, the income policy another major priority. And in fact, that money is $480 million. BGN, a little less of them, will go exactly, precisely for remuneration, not 10%, but up to 10%, because there is also a catch that in fact these 10%, in order to get them, need someone to work more and their productivity to be better. There is therefore also politics and reformist thinking here. The other important thing to note in the budget is not to the Regional Ministry, but to the Road Infrastructure Agency. This is also a kind of reform.. what we have been doing for the past two years. The Road Infrastructure Agency is extremely underfunded and every one of us knows it. And what we have undertaken, and the efforts that are being made in this direction, are from next year to have an electronic charging system that will be a mixed system between electronic wineries and the so-called toll for heavy goods vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. And what's the point of this thing? In order for the state to really have, Mrs. Yankova just said next year 263 million. lv. It is provided for by a toll, in the next three years it is provided for each year by 300 million. lv. the Agency will therefore be financed sufficiently well and the Republican road network will not rely on a commitment from the budget, but will be on self-support and the roads will be in an enviable decent state at European levels, as we are chasing. Colleagues, I will conclude by saying that a lot can be said, but the realities are such and if you do not support the budget, I think this is a betrayal to the work and efforts of the Bulgarian people to actually work these funds and use these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u352	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u353	Dear Madam President, Ministers, Minister! Budget critics so far have very little talked about what will happen in the education system in 2019. I will refer precisely to the education system and the money that is in the 2019 draft budget. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u354	Quiet, please! Colleagues, take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u355	The policies for accessible and quality education are implemented through a comprehensive integrated approach based on the tied and coordinated actions of the institutions at national and local level. The funds from the state budget mainly focus on the four pillars of funding of the system under the Pre-school and School Education Act, as well as on financing the training of students and PhD students, determined on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training. For the main policies that are announced in the education system, there is a guarantee that they will be financed. The total estimated expenditure for education for 2019 is 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which represents 3.6% of gross domestic product, with a difference of 450 million. lv. As compared to 2018 The forecast for the next two budgetary years of 2020 and 2021 are planned to reach 3,7% and 3,8% of gross domestic product respectively. Secondary education: the increase in the support of education and training activities for children and students by 330 million. BGN will guarantee growth of the salaries of the pedagogical specialists with an average of 20%, and the start salary of the pedagogical specialists from January 1, 2019 will increase from 660 BGN. at BGN 920 and in 2021 a doubling of the remuneration funds will be achieved compared to 2017. An additional 39 million. lv. are intended for non-pedagogical staff of schools. Since the beginning of 2018, delegated school budgets are determined not only by the number of students in them, but also by the number of classes and schools in a municipality. Following an analysis of the size of the standards and the shortcomings found, adjustments have been made to increase standards by an average of 16.8%. These were corrected by 16% for schools of arts, special schools and special educational support centers. The standard for a student in these centers is rising by 47%. Almost 10 million are provided for the introduction of a complementary standard of 2% of the basic standard of a high school student. The standard for kindergarten increases by 19% and for a crevice group and a group in a full-time garden by 16.7%. For the first time in 2019 is fixed amount of funds for activities of interest, which will be able to receive educational institutions at 1900 BGN. at school and 30 leva. to a student, or a total of 25 million for the country. $100,000. BGN, as schools will organize at least 40% of the activity in mathematics, natural sciences, technology, civil education. The aim is to provoke the early interest of students in these areas of science, to deepen the acquisition of these competences and to expand the base of specialists in information technology and engineering sciences. About 90 million. lv. provide by 2021 for measures to reduce early leaving the education system. For 2019, a total of 30 million. lv. are the funds allocated to the budget for work with children and students from vulnerable groups, 4.3 million for the maintenance of protected kindergartens and schools, and 6.5 million. lv. for general or additional support at the expense of suspended monthly support for raising a child until the completion of secondary education under § 38 of the Pre-school and School Education Act. In order to ensure quality vocational education and training in accordance with the needs of the labour market, 1.6 million are provided. lv. for scholarships of students who are trained in dual form of training. Three million leva will be provided to schools based on the achieved and preserved high results of the national external assessments of the students. The support provided by the state to preserve the national self-consciousness, culture and habits of those who live abroad is continuing to take advantage of over 29 thousand. Children. More than 43 million are provided for the provision of transport to children and students, including for the maintenance of school buses. BGN, which is 4.3 million. lv. more than the previous year. An additional eight million are planned to provide better quality snacks for children up to fourth grade, and children can choose between a basic and supportive breakfast. In 2019, national funding will continue to be complemented with funds from the Structural Funds of the European Union. They are primarily aimed at supporting the personal development of students in accordance with their individual needs. Currently, the Ministry of Education and Science is preparing three projects, which are expected to be approved under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" and will be implemented from the beginning of 2019. Higher education. The increased funding from the state budget for higher education and science amounted to 62 million. 158,000. lv. As compared to 2018, it shows a movement in the right direction for reforming higher education, stimulating achievements and limiting funding for low-quality education directions. The policy of restructuring of higher schools in relation to the assessment of the quality of training and in terms of professional directions with an expected future shortage of the labour market continues. In order to preserve such specialties and become more attractive, it is envisaged the exemption of fees for the training, with a predictable value of two million levs. Additional funds of 39 million are provided to support the training of students and PhD students. In accordance with the Higher Education Act, these funds are increased annually on the basis of the complex assessment of the quality of training. Since the introduction of this funding model in 2011, the relative share has increased from 2,28% in 2011 to 55,46% in 2019. In the field of science, 529 million were estimated in the draft budget. BGN, which is 0,5% of gross domestic product at 0.4% this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. are provided for in the next year budget for funding at the next stage of the approved 12 programmes. In 2019, other scientific programmes will be launched aimed at recognizing and supporting the individual potential for conducting high-level research. The funding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will take place under priority programmes, as well as targeting research activities to national assigned tasks related to the country's development. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u356	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u357	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! It is obvious that we will agree that there is no perfect budget and the debate on the budget is useful. Of course, some ideas have been shown, some thoughts on the subject, but we still need to take into account the merits of this budget. This budget has merit, and I will refer to them in the sector of Defence. The first dignity of this is actually the largest budget that is obtained in the sector of defence since we have a professional army of 1 billion. 839 million. And if we can compare it to the budget that we had in 2008, 2009 the pre-crisis years, that's an increase of about 300 million. Just for example, I will give an example that a budget of the Navy, which includes only personnel costs, current maintenance and small capital expenditure, is 90 million. I want to compare this budget to the budget that was increased by 113 million last year, and now it's increased by 223 million. The Air Force budget we remember was about 130 million years ago. So we have an additional kind of armed force. The second dignity. The rate of growth in all spheres is impressive: staff by 10% increase, after last year we increased it by 10%. Let's go back and ask, when in the recent past in two years has the budget increased by 20%?! For the current maintenance something like 40% increase, and these are fuels, utility costs, small repairs. In fact, this is aimed at increasing the combat training that we have talked about many times from this tribune. And this is an attitude towards personnel about working conditions. Capital expenditures - note, colleagues, with close to 100% - 97%. I don't remember one such increase in capital expenditure. I've been in the army for many years, but there's never been such a rate of increase. And this means restoring equipment with capital-repair repairs, opportunities for modernization and so on. And, of course, there are the modernization projects that we have voted here in this Chamber, which gives the direction of the future of the Bulgarian Army, of the armed forces, which we all agree that we need more and more. The third is stability. Stability as defined by the 2% increase in efforts plan, which is being implemented, means that commitments are being implemented. We've got 1.58, next year's.161. And all of this is not just a figure, and this enables the commanders to plan and follow their priorities in line with the updated national security strategy, taking into account exactly what the army needs as a perspective. Because stability is extremely important when you build an army. An army is not built for one year, for two years, for three years. There must be stability in decisions, stability in priorities. Finally, in conclusion, this budget is aimed at building, towards personnel, higher combat training, higher abilities. And it is a merit of this budget, of what the government has proposed, and I hope you will agree with me. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u358	Thank you, dear General Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Iron.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u359	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Thanks to the measures taken by the government in recent years, we can indeed offer an ambitious budget that corresponds to the country's economic situation. Budget 2019 provides an opportunity to upgrade the priorities already set in the Government's Management Programme. As a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, there is no way I am not going to dwell specifically on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and I cannot help but mention that social policy is a leading policy for the Government of the Political Party GERB and the United Patriarchs. Total budget of the Ministry for 2019. is about 1 billion. And 300 million. lv. The main point is the increase in funding for policies for people with disabilities. This is in order to respond to the changing economic environment and to provide more adequate financial support for people with disabilities. The budget for policies for disabled people amounts to the sum of 460 million. lv. Or almost twice as much as this year's. Thanks to the additional 150 million, which Prime Minister Borisov personally promised, and they are already a fact, and are set in budget 2019 to provide financially the Law for people with disabilities and the Personal Aid Act, we believe that with them we will be able to guarantee a stable financial basis for reform in the sector and in order to ensure a more adequate care for the people. In the medium-term budget forecast, it is foreseen that in the coming years the amount of policies for people with disabilities should also be increased, but we must not forget that in 2018 we laid the foundations with the increase of 81 million. lv. We already have such a sustainable trend for increasing funds. It is also an important point to mention that in the budget we increase the target heating aid in 2019 by 40,4 million. lv. These are funds that will help more needy and will be able to melt and compensate for the increase in energy prices. The State Budget Bill provides for and introduces a new kind of monthly support for children without the right to an inheritance pension from a deceased parent according to changes in the Family Aid Act for children. We are taking serious steps to raise incomes and they already have a real measure, insufficient at this time, but no one before us has taken steps to increase incomes in the country. Thanks to serious financial discipline and stable fiscal policy by the Ministry of Finance every year we will be able to raise the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. In total, the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy increased by about 200 million. lv. We can certainly not mention the important highlights of the ministry's work to reduce unemployment, which is expected to reach record low levels next year. I welcome the efforts of the Ministry to be a balancer and to meet the needs of the people through the various mechanisms at its disposal. As you know, social policy is mainly done with a budgetary resource and it is precisely putting it in front of the focus policies that enables more funds to be allocated. Fact is already the draft laws that we saw at first reading, which will lead to greater efficiency in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u360	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. On the occasion of Mrs. Zhelyazkova's speech, at the beginning of the debate, I neglected to tell you that today I invited the mothers of children with disabilities to attend the balcony when we adopted the budget. Unfortunately, they couldn't make it. They'd better be here. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u361	My fellow Members, I will be very brief. I thank my colleagues who spoke before me from GERB and actually very clearly from this tribune said what are the main priorities and what are the numbers behind the priorities in this budget. Before that, many, many words were spoken, and in all these words the criticism, much of which were unfounded. I don't want to lose the most important thing, so I just want to go back to a few numbers that show the focus. Budget 2019 is yet another budget of sustainable economic growth - 3.7% growth of gross domestic product, 116 billion. Growth not only of the economy, record growth and revenue " 5.6 billion more revenue" compared to 2018. An impressive number that gives us the opportunity to implement precisely the priorities and in our spending policies. I will not repeat them, although there is no talk of the most important policy of income policy, because we are constantly getting criticism from the left that we do not care about the increase in incomes. This year in budget 2019 the main priority, the main burden is precisely in income policy. I'd also like to draw attention to a few more numbers. All the numbers I just said are actually realized in a serious financial consolidation of the budget, a 0,5% balance, a deficit with a tendency for 2020 to be on a balanced budget. This talks about the strength of both the economy and the strength of the budget, talking about the right policy, led by the government, the policy of fiscal consolidation, which does not prevent, on the contrary, helping to realise the main priorities. And all of this, with a reduction in government debt of 22 billion and two tenths, 20.2% of gross domestic product with a tendency to decline further with record unemployment of 4.89%, which we expect for 2019. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Recordably low unemployment because the economy is growing because there is a shortage of staff, because business is getting gassed by the lack of personnel. And I'm going back to the policies that will give business and economics a breath of air, the policies that colleagues have talked about before. [[Noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u362	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u363	For me, this budget has been one of the best budgets in the last ten years, a budget of sound economic growth. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u364	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[Extreme applause.]] Colleagues, please be quiet. Please, colleagues, take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u365	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are really adopting at first reading one of the most important laws in the country and, as one of the leaders of the opposition said, this law will bring something into the home of every Bulgarian citizen. In fact, we have for a second year in a row a budget adopted by the majority of GERB and the United Patriarchs, which reflects in practice the philosophy of our government as well. This philosophy has often been criticised, often trying to be contrived, if you will, but it works and a fact that confirms this is stable economic growth both this year and as a perspective. The fact is that the policy for thawing incomes began last year and this year it already has far more tangible dimensions. Many things are spoken and many spells are spoken when you have to denigrate an idea or when you have to denigrate a policy, usually beginning with demographics. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! What if not the most powerful measure to deal with the demographic catastrophe is income growth. It is no coincidence from the United patriots that we are talking about the growth of incomes for almost a decade, because everything else is in vain and neither can we guarantee economic development, nor can we guarantee national security, nor can we guarantee a level of education if we do not have normal incomes if our young generations go looking for realization somewhere else. In this regard, the budget for next year is one step in the right direction. Yes, there are many costs that could have happened, there are many specific problems that will remain unresolved, but in the end this is the budgetary process. The resource is always limited and it must be given for the most important. For us this budget is good because it gives the most for the most important increase in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. We will support the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u366	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u367	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The procedure of the first vote is relatively limited from time to time, so I will not speculate on the possibilities that the Rules give me as a minister. I hope that in the second vote we can further develop the debate so that it answers some of the issues raised by the parliamentary groups, which will not support the budget. However, I am provoked to go through two, three points as the essence of part of the speeches, without trying to create tensions in the plenary, because indeed the debate on the second vote will enable, on the specific proposals of the individual parliamentary groups, to move on to any aspect of the policy that can be added to the fiscal framework for next year. To Mr. Tsonev, we will have a very interesting debate, as he is an experienced economist, to talk about whether the budget is procyclic or countercyclical in this version, and to discuss whether its spending will increase inflation or not. Because neither syntactic nor semantic analysis of the speech of most colleagues gave me an answer to the questions that I would like to further develop. I promise on Mr. Gechev's speech that I will pull out a transcript and go through each of the figures and findings he presented to the plenary because it may be that in an academic style it is sometimes very freely handled with numbers and this is misleading. The advantage of the stenographic recording is that it will enable us to closely and carefully monitor all aspects of such a statement. However, I take the occasion of this with him we have had many disputes about debt, especially at the beginning of the previous government mandate, when we have to assume a great debt in connection with the financing of the failures in the banking system. He then claimed how disastrous the debt was, now compared the low level of debt to a much less developed country. Here I will immediately refer to the topic related to the Sanitation Program, because for many years we have tried to defend it as a good topic, at one point it turned out that the moment when it exhausted the limit with which we had stated that we would develop it, it became a favorite topic of colleagues from the left who claim balanced regional development. I will return to Mr. Gechev to ask him about the so desired foreign direct investment. What is his attitude towards foreign direct investment and one of its most popular forms of...................................................................................................... When we talk about the role of the state and foreign direct investment, I would remind you that we were opening a new airport in Istanbul at the place of the existing Ataturk in the Republic of Turkey and he blamed us for attending foreign major investment projects. They were made on concession, Professor, and when we talk about similar projects, which hand do you regret not being at Erdogan for the opening of Istanbul airport, and which hand do you vote against the concessionation of Sofia airport? These things need to be cleaned up in a meaningful debate. I conclude with the topic of the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, since the opening of this National Assembly, we have had this debate on the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Since 1991 they date the financial rules for the formation of the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly. They have always been three medium salaries for the public sector. True, there were times when three average salaries for the public sector were 15 dollars. But this is not an occasion for the salaries of the MPs and the people who are responsible and are expected to lead the state and society, by example, not to be related to the common wealth of society. Here I open and immediately close the subject of populism and demagogy. We will have time between first and second readings to have an even more meaningful debate, because I hope that all these proposals will be re-established as concrete amendments to the proposed legislation by the government. I believe that everything that has been said today has benefited the debate. I count between first and second readings that it is even longer and even more meaningful. I promise on these basic rhetoric, which I have pointed out on the basis of the main political speeches on the framework, that I can participate even more fully in two weeks' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u368	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I put to the vote the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, including the Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2, not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. They voted 199 MPs: 1 against 86, abstention 112. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. 200 MPs voted: 115 against 85, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this was adopted the State budget at first reading. [[Applause from GERB.]] Here you go, Mr. Gechev. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u369	My fellow Members, my procedure in the manner of conduct is as follows: when we have a discussion in the Parliamentary Hall, the ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria are not authorised to make assessments of the speakers. And as for the transcript, read it very carefully because Eurostat and your report are not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u370	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Negative vote? [[Heckling]] Did you say yourself, Mr. Gokov, on this budget? No. Here's your first negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u371	Madam President, the procedure is not over yet, and everyone is leaving. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u372	Colleagues, please take your seats! Anyone who doesn't want to sit down, leave the room. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, dear ministers! I voted against it because now without demagogy and populism we had to lay the foundations for solving serious problems of Bulgaria and the Bulgarians as unacceptable high levels of poverty and inequality, demographic problems formulated by the Bulgarians short like: Bulgaria disappears, bad health, corruption, but this did not happen. I voted against it because this budget leaves many questions unanswered. Will the Bulgarians become richer than they were in 2018? In 2019, are we going to get closer to income, to minimum European not even to average, but to minimum? Will we at least approach Romania on income? Will the 2019 budget reduce inequalities in the country? Will it reduce the rate of enrichment of the rich and the impoverishment of the poor? Will the distance between the richest and poorest Bulgarians be reduced? I voted against it because there was no honest, reasonable and motivated conversation on these critical issues for Bulgaria. I will therefore ask the question: why do we need this budget if it does not make the life of the Bulgarian better? Why do we need these rulers if they can't solve the problems of the Bulgarians and make his life Better? I voted against it because in the 2019 budget, I did not see any commitments and policies directed by the government to deal with these problems which have become threats, because after adopting this budget, Bulgaria will continue to have serious and deepening problems in the social sphere and to lag behind the other countries of the European Union. I voted against it because of the frozen social payments. I voted against it because, despite the unanimity that Bulgaria was hit by a serious demographic disaster and that exiting this extremely negative situation requires serious and concrete action in all spheres..... political, economic, social, spiritual, cultural and so on. In this budget, no one but importers sees a slight hint of such measures and actions. I can name more, but since time is up, I think that is enough as a motive for voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u374	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u375	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u376	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I voted against it. Of the hundreds of arguments I can use to motivate my negative vote, I will use the funding of municipalities. Despite the fanfare and the pink balloons in practice the greater funding of the state-sponsored activities will be eaten by the catching up of the minimum wage growth in municipal administrations. In addition, municipal social services delegated as responsibility by the state, especially those of a resident type, will be doomed to miserable functioning. There will not be enough funds again to maintain and repair the municipal road network, the target funds through the budget for municipal investment programs are more than symbolic. It is also difficult for me to comment on the approach to change the matching subsidy allocation mechanism, which was not agreed with the National Association of Municipalities. Whatever arguments I present to you about this, they will be few. It is clear that you are continuing the policy of subordination of the central and executive municipalities. Unfortunately, in ten years you have gathered neither will nor political courage to take a serious step towards modern and modern local self-government. These are my arguments not to support the 2019 State Budget Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-07.u377	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Will there be a third negative vote? I can't see. Colleagues, I am closing today's plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9 o'clock. [[PHONE RINGING]]
