ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u1	Hey, guys! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, we agreed with colleagues that when there are first reading bills on Wednesday for Thursday, we will not include them, but now we have a second reading bill which I will put to the vote for inclusion in the programme. You know that when the Bill is at second reading, no 24-hour period is required. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs were importing on 4 May 2018. He was accepted at the first vote on 15 May 2018. This will be the next point in order, after hearing from the Minister of Agriculture. Vote 172 MPs: 106, against 44, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Message: On 30 May 2018, the National Assembly was given, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the topic:.. Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a common European product for personal insurance. The material is provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Declaration please, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 23 May 2018, Decree No 84 of the Council of Ministers adopted an amendment and supplement to the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the implementation of schemes for the provision of fruit and vegetables and milk and milk products in educational establishments. These are the school fruit and school milk schemes. With this decree and a letter of non-compliance by the Council of Ministers, with its immediate and apparently very urgent publication on 25 May 2018 in the Official Journal of the European Union, the new changes to apply for the above schemes are already in fact. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has not been able to prepare the amendments to the Ordinance on the implementation of the European School Fruit and School Milk Schemes. Those who so far carried out the implementation of the programmes were very surprised by these changes. They were neither informed nor sought their opinion. The changes are the result of strong lobbying interests which aimed to propose a discussion within a month, and given the diligent reception in May, there should be no hypothetical possibility of changing the parameters of the requirements. It was only at the envisaged hearing in the Committee on Agriculture and Food that discussions were not conducted with interested parties and that the rules for the implementation of the programme were not commented. The question is: why? We are looking for an answer, but there is none, and there is a legal act of stubbornness that creates serious concern about whether Bulgarian children will still have access to fruits and dairy products. Who is responsible for the delay, for the lack of any communication with those who have so far fulfilled their commitments and have proved the opportunity to implement the programmes? The recent amendments to the Ordinance were subjected to serious public interest, discussions and with extremely many complaints from stakeholders, despite all attempts by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to cover up the situation. Meetings were also held with representatives of all interested parties. Debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, debate also after the invitation of Minister Porozhanov for business talk at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with representatives of business and producers. Even this meeting, held on 22 May, immediately after the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, again did not lead to an understanding between the stakeholders. Nevertheless, she was admitted the next day. It was accepted despite the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on May 16th to withdraw the item from the agenda until there is a meeting between the ministers concerned, which will detail things, because there will be no thought. This meeting was not provided for by the speeches of the Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, who categorically stated that this decree was adopted A regulation is adopted which contradicts and there is a decision of the Commission for Protection of Competition No 482 of 4 May 2017 that even so far the existing regulation does not give access to all applicants under the scheme and violates the basic principle of competition rules. A regulation has been adopted which provides a prerequisite for the bankruptcy of about 500 companies in Bulgaria, who have successfully implemented the activities under the schemes for several years and have achieved almost 95% absorption by the funds of this scheme. Dear Mr. Porozhanov, one of your reasons for adopting this controversial regulation is to strengthen the possibility for producers to make direct deliveries, as it is throughout Europe by encouraging short chains. According to § 1, art. 11 of Commission Delegated Regulation No 807 clearly specifies what it wants to say. Hence, it is also apparent that you quite misunderstood apply the definition of a short supply chain. It is not possible for producers to make direct deliveries to educational establishments and no priority is given to producers through a short supply chain. It is possible for the farmer, through only one intermediary, to realize his production to the schools. In applying the integrated scheme, School fruit and school milk. On the one hand, Member States for the period from 2017 to 2022 in the European Commission in a number of working groups provide guidance on how the Member States concerned should lay down clear and objective criteria in order not to discriminate against all potential candidates and not to make significant changes to the selection criteria once asked. No Member State shall give priority to one potential group of suppliers in front of another. It's a complete paradox, it's creating a monopoly! Member States shall give priority to the products of the products and not to the producers. This is how the Bulgarian producer will be stimulated by giving priority to the Bulgarian production. Now, dear Minister, to the point. Why would this Regulation have a full monopoly on certain producers in order to redistribute the market in Bulgaria? This regulation opens even more scissors between small and large businesses, with this regulation certain interests are served. In Bulgaria there are a total of 225 milk processors: 53 produce different BDS products and 20 produce so the testament three for yogurt, cheese and cheese, of which nine are participants only on the schemes. Only these nine dairy producers can and have participated in the school milk scheme. That is why we assume and, as the Committee on Agriculture and Food said, that: Bulgaria has already been distributed between two farmers that two producers are applying. One of those nine who participated in the scheme for the previous year and the other will participate for the first time. Here's an example. The program provides only yogurt, cheese and cheese under the BDS. We're guessing both manufacturers have them. Both have an equal number of certificates, and here is the most interesting criterion, which is actually the key to the tent. Only the nine producers mentioned have experience. This automatically means that nine producers will participate in the scheme forever unless they start to compete directly and the traders in question are not part of the chain at all. This is how competition disappears and how the monopoly of certain producers in the dairy industry is created and corruption practices come into their place. Here is the place to ask Minister Porozhanov: is he continuing to maintain his words on 16 May 2018 at a meeting of the Council of Ministers that such distribution of the market will not be so dramatic for the traders in question? Those criteria are not objective on free trade and distort competition between a producer and a trader. Let it be clear for the last time that the schemes are intended to improve the distribution of agricultural products and improve children's eating habits. The schemes are not intended to support the dairy sector in the community; the schemes are not intended to monopolise and cartelise these sectors; the schemes are not intended to serve certain persons close to power. Dear politicians from GERB, you also reached for the milk for children to fill your pockets! Stop your schemes! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Taneva, Mr. Mareshki is giving you his turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u4	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The regulation referred to in the declaration read really caused a lot of fierce debates in the Committee on Agriculture and Food when it was the minister's hearing on the regulation. All interested parties were invited then. Of course, your role as opposition is to criticize the ruling coalition, the cabinet and their decisions. I would like to make it clear that the changes to the regulation in question are aimed only in order to ensure the best possible delivery by Bulgarian producers of Bulgarian fruit, vegetables and milk products under the "School fruit" and "School milk" schemes, financed by European funds, of Bulgarian children. I'm gonna say a few numbers. At the moment, 90% and more of these supplies under European schemes are supplied by so-called traders and for any monopoly of any producer, let alone a close friend of power, cannot be concerned. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u5	Quiet, please! [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u6	Yes, the aim of the debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Food was to reach consensus, and I believe that the countries were sufficiently understood. Of course, in particular the criteria and details, the debate may continue. In my opinion, it is the most normal policy of supporting the producer to continue both in this legal act and in any other regulation governing public relations in Bulgarian agriculture in Bulgarian food production. At the end of the day, both on the left and on the right in all the debates in the Chamber was about achieving one goal. I see nothing wrong, on the contrary, only it may be worthy of admiration to conduct policies to support the Bulgarian production, as is the regulation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Procedure, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. I would like to return this House to the agenda because it says that we should discuss the common agricultural policy after 2020. The issue that has now been put is extremely important because it is scandalous. So let us consider it at a separate meeting of the National Assembly, not in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u9	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, for your offer. There is a procedure on which debate can be required on the subject. Here you are, Mr. Minister, so you can say a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments in question to the decree, respectively the regulation, clearly aim to enable producers to be part of this scheme. This option was given even before 2016, but with a reverse amendment to the regulation. During the service government she was taken away. The regulation was put forward for public coordination at the beginning of April, if I am not mistaken. All comments, comments and comments were received. We had several meetings with Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov, who had obstructions on some of the topics. Of course, some of the notes were reflected. What's the situation right now? More than 450 thousand are served under the scheme. children in kindergartens and schools. Ninety-four percent over 430 thousand are served by the fruit of the so-called traders, with all due respect to them who carry out this process. There are only 4% of them. In the milk scheme, the ratio is similar to 9% against 90% and slightly higher. When you talk about monopoly, there are companies in the part of traders, with at least five of them with services between 200 and 300 educational and childcare establishments, which does not enter into any context of the regulations on monopoly status and so on. You know very well that with regard to the fetus, producers would hardly be involved in the current changes. In terms of school milk. The cuts corresponding to the Bulgarian state standard for milk, cheese, cheese for milk know that it is not BDS, there are enough other regulations for all products are made by manufacturers. They're given to distributors to carry them. There is no additional manipulation, there is no additional manipulation whatsoever. Giving producers the opportunity to participate in this process I consider a priority that the Ministry of Agriculture must make. By delaying the regulation, by delaying the call of a meeting which I urged to hold after the 16th, I dare say that it was only aimed at delaying the term of 31 May this year. The proposals for applications for the next school year shall be accepted by 31 May. In order to comply with what the Ministry has proposed to protect the interests of the producers, the regulation has been adopted in this way. I don't think we have in any way violated any interest. I'm not going into the debate about the interpretation of the KPC, about the short supply chains. It's a very long subject. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I respect everything you've said. You could have mentioned it at the meeting of the Agriculture Commission. There no representative of BSP and the other political parties opposed. Not everyone supported him, but no one was against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u11	Thank you, dear Minister. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the..
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! We are facing the biggest robbery of all time, which is preparing the proposal of military minister Karakachanov for the spending of 6 billion Bulgarian folk money for arms. Why do I say the biggest robbery? Bigger, more obnoxious and more dangerous than the pyramids, more dangerous than what happened to robbing so many KTB people! Because, while we Bulgarian citizens had the right to choose whether to give our money to the pyramids, whether to invest our money in banks that could eventually fail, we have no choice here! With one solution Karakachanov stirs into the pocket of all Bulgarians! Me and the millions of Bulgarians who don't want to put our money in airplanes, and we want to give it to the education of young people. Do we approve of such a deal?! Here the last instance is the conscience of the Bulgarian MPs, representatives of the entire Bulgarian people, and not of a certain strata. I have reviewed the election programs of all the formations represented in parliament and those outside the parliament. I listened to the debate during the election fight. No one was saying that the most important thing, the first thing we need to do is give 6 billion for the purchase of several planes, the most pointless spending that can be made in a country where every day they show us holes, bankrupt hospitals, lack of health care and dying education! Is that your patriotism, fellow MPs?! And here I'm going to make the distinction. I want to apologize to my colleagues from NFSB and from Ataka, because I see that they are not active in this thing. Because with this proposal, with this deal, Karakachanov practically burys the United Patriarchs. And if Valeri Simeonov and Volen Siderov do not separate themselves from this thing, the next election will receive the award from the Bulgarian voters. In the next election, report with a first point: purchase of airplanes, not a first point: pensions! Because now it turns out that the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners took off with the planes of Karakachanov. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Young people are growing stronger towards Terminal 2, and pensioners are being sent to Count Ignatievo to look for their pensions! This is basically Karakachanov's proposal. We're even more extreme. If NATO membership is understood as robbing the Bulgarian people, then why do we need this membership?! We will continue to raise the question.. or a normal, dignified partnership in which each partner tries to have equality with the other partners, and if not for us such partners we do not need them. I will quote the Chancellor of Austria. He says: "Russia is important to us, and the United States is becoming an increasingly unreliable partner. " To these clackers, who will now tell us: 'Ama, we have commitments to NATO', I will quote a much larger and much more important organisation, which does not belong to a certain group of countries, but to the whole world, the United Nations. UN Secretary General Mr. Guterres, drawing up the vision of global disarmament, says: "Disarming is the concern of every country, including Bulgaria, honourable Patriots, because we have signed agreements with the UN and are members of the UN. Disarming should cover each weapon from hand grenades to hydrogen bombs. Between hand grenades and hydrogen bombs, planes come in. So let us carry out our commitments, not only where there is a deal and corruption, but also fulfill our commitments in the directions to which the modern world goes. The modern world is moving towards disarmament. Trump meets with North Korea to disarm, and you're only talking about buying military equipment! You forgot about all the other promises you have, and these are the pain of the Bulgarian people. Outside of all this, I can't help but comment on yesterday's speech and the attempt at suggestion by asking a question: who is paying Mareshki? Dear fellow Patriots, if you're used to everything you're paid for, we generally call it selling out. If that's what you are...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u13	Mr. Mareshki, be careful not to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u14	I say that if you are such, but very carefully say it, do you think that there are no other true Bulgarian patriots, real Bulgarian normal citizens who can do something for the good of their people and not just for their own pocket? So be careful with these speeches, plus the others, that you see, Mareshki and his group were against it because they didn't participate in the deal. Well, in itself, it means that all those who are in favour are involved in the deal, but not for something that is good for Bulgaria, but in the deal. I can't help but note President Radev's strange confession that she is ignorant in the issue of Defense. Yeah, I don't pretend to be very aware, so I didn't become a military man, I didn't become a general, I didn't become a pilot, but he and those who led the army and ruined it... Is that what he means by ignorance? I absolutely agree that this is dangerous and in practice with their ignorance and the destruction of the army have led to our national security being breached. But I'll add: much more dangerous than ignorance in the army, in the topic of defence, much more dangerous are excessive awareness, excessive professionalism in the area of corruption, in the area of corruption deals! So let everyone face their consciences, ask their voters... we will ask all the voters..................... health care, education, internal order and security or defence?........................... Let them prioritize them, prioritize them according to their priorities, and we have to comply with that. Thank you for your attention. I hope everyone learns their lessons and makes the right decisions. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, let's welcome our guests! Today on the balcony are lecturers and teachers from the Professional High School of Equipment and Management. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We have been witnessing for several days a propaganda that has been rampant by the party.Volja. and Mr. Mareshki.................. that Bulgaria should guarantee its national security. We are witnessing how to manipulate figures, facts and everything else in order to mask Bulgarian politics nowadays and the Bulgarian government, which wants to protect the national interest. These decisions to re-arm the Bulgarian Army have been taken by many governments so far. Mr. Mareshki, of course, is coming out, he doesn't want to hear it, but he probably has to answer the question: why, ajeba, remember to bring this up right now? Is there a reason? Someone might have tipped him off or run some other errands or interests? Why? He talks about how we, the United Patriarchs, have ignored the interests of the Bulgarian pensioners. On the contrary, it was thanks to us in the government's management programme that increased indexation of minimum pensions and all other pensions was introduced. From June 1st, all pensions will be indexed again and we are fulfilling our programme. We are even implementing the program of the party. Volja, and Mr Mareshki, where it is clearly written in their election program for modernization of the three types of troops. We're also running your program! Or maybe you're giving up your programming?! Perhaps what you have spoken to the voters and recorded as a program, nowadays you do not like and are looking for some other model of populism to like certain circles or to serve circles with certain interests. In recent days I have listened to Mr. Mareshki determine the Bulgarian national interests. God forbid Mareshki determines the Bulgarian national interests. God forbid! The other thing I can tell him, because he has doubts about how the Bulgarian voters will vote in the next elections and whether they will support the United Patriarchs: do not worry about it! We have taken our cross and will fulfill our commitments. Worry about your vote, because your party and you as political leader will be in the Mimansa. Unlike you, Mr. Mareshki, we don't talk about ourselves from this tribune and we don't brag all the time, which is a complete paradox. Every statement Mareshki made on this platform is about how he is the leader...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u17	Be careful, Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u18	...to the people. He speaks for the people, and no one has given him such rights. He can only speak for himself. Everyone can understand how much a politician costs when he speaks only for himself and praises himself because there is no one to praise him. I am sure that in the next election the voters of the party will count on the fingers of both hands. About the data and numbers that Mr. Mareshki constantly speculates with. First of all, Mr. Karakachanov is not the person who asked for the re-arming of the Bulgarian army. Once again, this is work, activity and decision of governments back in time. Second, six billion won't spend on a few planes. That's also a lie that he's always running. It's re-arming both the Land Forces and the Navy and the Air Force. Mr. Mareshki, when you talk, when you want to be objective, we have no problem being criticized as part of the government. We have no problem saying things that may not be right. However, when lies are lied when lies are drawn and people are deceived, then there is also the opposite. Let Mr. Mareshki answer more questions: is he opposition or part of the country's governance? We cannot understand whether it rules or is opposition because one states to the citizens, another does in this House. His division in politics and in the topics he stands for, we have seen them constantly especially in the presidential elections, as you remember. One day he supports one candidate for vice president, the next day he supports the candidate for president, the third day he says he does not support them, the fourth day he supports them again. So Mr. Mareshki has to solve these problems with himself. When a person is in politics and wants to be respected by both the people and the politicians, he must keep his words. When you recorded in your program that you wanted modernization of the Bulgarian Army and wrote exactly what the Bulgarian government is currently doing, you should go out and say: "Bravo, you are defending national interests. Bulgaria must have a modern army, a combatable army to protect the state and national interests. Because unfortunately, in the 21st century, we live in other realities that no one expected. No one has expected so many wars and conflicts that are close to Bulgaria. If we do not guarantee our own national security, there is no one else to guarantee it. A military alliance is a good thing. NATO, well, there's a common defense and so on. But who gives us a guarantee of how long this alliance will last? Tomorrow or the day after, if something happens and this Alliance falls apart, who will guarantee Bulgaria's national security when we will have no plane, no tank, no ship?! Therefore, as politicians, we have a duty to the future, to the future people of Bulgaria to provide the resource, to ensure the modernization of the Bulgarian army and to guarantee national security. I will recall the words that are known to you all: a nation that does not feed its own army feeds foreign armies. If Mr. Mareshki wants to feed foreign armies, which apparently has been a fact for several days, it's his problem. We from the United Patriarchs will not allow Bulgaria to feed foreign armies. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Mareshki, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Several times, my colleague mentioned the word "liar" and you did not interrupt it. I will only remind you of their statement from the previous parliament when they were trying to remain in power...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u21	Read the rules! That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u22	Mr. Mareshki, let's not get into a debate. Only in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u23	When someone feels like a professional, political fraud, there's no way they can insult others... [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u24	Mr. Mareshki, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u25	That's absolutely the way it is! To interrupt them when they say we're lying...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u26	Here, now I'm going to interrupt you because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u27	You interrupt me, and he talks to me for ten minutes and lies to the Bulgarian voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u28	...a note was made by the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u29	He didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u30	I'm not getting into a fight. Please, do you have a way of keeping it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u31	In the manner of keeping.. when someone is lying and insulting a colleague, interrupt it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u32	Got it. I'll answer it. Thank you. That was the way it was led. On several occasions, while you were absent from the hall, Ms. Karayancheva made a note to soften and change the tone. Maybe you missed that. We continue with the item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOODS AND FEATURES 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE COMMON RURAL POLICY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AFTER 2020 The procedure provides that the importer shall present the subject at the hearing within five minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Currently, the issue of the European Union's CAP after 2020 is becoming increasingly important for the political elite at EU and national level, for those employed in the agricultural sector and for all over 500 million citizens of the European Union. It is necessary for the common agricultural policy to continue to be one of the Union's priority policies, as only in this way can it be ensured that it is able to fulfil the ambitious objectives set in terms of the challenges relating to combating climate change, ensuring sustainability of agriculture and the environment, ensuring food security, quality and food safety for all citizens of the European Union. Future decisions on the financing of this policy as a result of the forthcoming intensive and severe negotiations should be based to the maximum extent on the high added value and public significance of the common agricultural policy. In the light of the key priority of the Bulgarian Presidency in the field of agriculture, namely the modernisation and simplification of the common agricultural policy after 2020, your goals have been ambitious and aimed at making a significant contribution to communication between the Council of the European Union and the Commission. The timely discussions the Presidency organised aimed at identifying the main concerns, ambitions and objectives of the Member States and to direct the Commission to draft legislative proposals for the next programming period. In this regard, Dear Minister, we would like you to present in greater detail the results of what you and your team have done on the topic of the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020, as well as to outline the upcoming steps in relation to the discussions on legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Mr. Minister, please provide the information on the issues discussed within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for putting this extremely important topic in the plenary for a hearing, as Bulgarian agriculture is an ascending industry and is extremely promising. What has been happening in this sector, supported by all governments in the last ten years, shows that agriculture as a major sector in the economy, a sector that also enables rural development, must be supported. It is in this context that the common agricultural policy is also to be considered in the new programming period. As you have already noted, the common agricultural policy should continue to be strong and adequately funded, taking into account its importance for the production of public goods, bioproducts and additional services related to environmental protection, human health, animal and plant health, combating climate change and animal welfare, which have a strong social impact and contribute to political and social stability. As President of the Council of Agriculture and Fisheries Ministers, I would like to make a brief overview of the results of our work on the CAP after 2020. As you know, at the end of November last year, the European Commission published its communication: the future of food and agriculture. The Bulgarian Presidency structured the Council's work in the form of a series of focused debates on key elements of the communication in order to increase the understanding of the Member States on the proposals of the European Commission and to shape common Council guidelines to guide the European Commission in drafting legislative proposals. In my role as President, I would like to remind you that we are a driving force in the work of the Council. We need to coordinate Member States' positions to reach a compromise on current issues, to represent the Council to the other institutions. To this end, the Presidency must act as an honest and neutral mediator. In order to allow citizens access to the debate and the possibility of clear messages on the importance of policy to reach the maximum broad group of institutions, the Bulgarian Presidency held the Council's meetings with a public broadcast over the Internet, where the main elements of the Commission Communication were discussed. Here I would like to open the clamp and tell you that as a percentage viewing of the meetings in public, in the Fisheries Council the Bulgarian Presidency comes first. The main topics discussed by the Council of the European Union were: the added value of the common agricultural policy and the objectives that need to be set at European level; the adequate level of subsidiarity or precisely enabling the Member States to be more self-sufficient in the common framework of the CAP; direct payments as a basic instrument for income support; the support involved; an extremely important topic for Bulgarian farmers, in the livestock, fruit and vegetables and others; environmental protection and climate change measures, as well as rural development. It should be borne in mind that in the European Commission Communication, the future of food and agriculture does not include elements related to the CAP budget after 2020, so that it does not affect or direct the discussion on the Commission proposal for the multiannual financial framework after 2020. On the basis of the discussions held in March this year, conclusions of the Presidency, supported by the majority of Member States, were approved. Part of the main messages of the conclusions are as follows: the CAP should be further improved by increasing its current added value and by simplifying policy in order to reduce the administrative burden, to simplify all procedures and ways of managing European funds; a partnership with farmers, which should be strengthened and farmers should remain at the centre of policy. A priority issue is the renewal of generations and the attraction of young farmers. The budget of the future CAP should be adequate and its more ambitious objectives with regard to the provision of public goods, in particular in the area of environmental protection and climate change. It is necessary for Member States to have more subsidiarity and flexibility, taking into account national and regional specificities, which will contribute to more effective implementation of policies. The single area payment scheme and base payment scheme should remain available to all Member States. Voluntary commitment to production to support vulnerable sectors and types of agricultural activity as an important element of support to many Member States. The full text of the conclusions is available on the website of the Council of the European Union. In addition, I would like to point out, as the European Commission's communication does not include elements relating to the budget of the future common agricultural policy to be debated during the meetings, we held a very separate working lunch with the ministers, where, in an informal context, we debated what the budget should be and how it should be directed. We discussed topics such as convergence of payments, flexibility to transfer funds between pillars and financial limits for certain instruments. Many of you know what concerns about the future Multiannual Financial Framework and the options for what will remain of the CAP budget, respectively cohesion policy and so on. The financial disadvantages that are formed within Brexit within the framework of the policies that are "Secretary" and "Migration" "Secure" and "Migration" have in the project more than 60 billion. Euro budget, formed an annual shortage of over 20 billion. Of course, on 2 May 2018, the Commission published its proposal for a Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020, covering the draft common agricultural policy for the period 2021. With regard to adjustments to the common agricultural policy budget after 2020, the Commission provides for a 5% reduction in the general budget. The same is the reduction for cohesion policy. Following the reduction, the total budget for the next programming period is expected to be 365 billion. EUR, of which 286 billion EUR 1st pillar, these are direct payments, the Guarantee Fund, and 78.8 billion. EUR 2nd pillar, i.e. In particular, under the first pillar, the Commission proposes a greater level playing field in the levels of direct payments per hectare between Member States, which is a further step towards the so-called external'. For Member States having a payment level below 90 per cent of the European Union average of 27 countries, the difference between their current level and the 90 per cent of this average is proposed to be reduced by 50% over the 6-year period. Here, I would like to open a clamp, which has resulted in a reduction for the direct payments budget and the debate on convergence, namely the convergence of payments, which has been extremely active, for large member states, in terms of direct payments, in terms of the Guarantee Fund, of 3.9%. For Bulgaria the reduction is only 0.7% on direct payments. Only for Baltic countries there is an increase of around 4%, as they were critically low, below the EU average direct payments. I cannot fail to note here that within the Multiannual Financial Framework, the budget was reduced by only 5 percent, as expectations were much more dramatic between 10 and 15, the European Commission made a very serious package in the revenue section of the budget. The first major revenue element was the increase in the contribution by 0,114, or by an 11.4% increase in the current base for each Member State. Other additional revenue, this is the reduction of the remaining administrative duties collected per percentage from 20 to 10. Of course, there is another much wider range of additional expenditure palettes, which has enabled the budget for direct payments to be reduced by only 4%, and the Rural development to be reduced by 10%, or total CAP 5%. With the 10% reduction for the rural development, it is possible for each Member State to supplement this reduction with national funds. To conclude, I would like to add that Commissioner Phil Hogan is expected to present the legislative proposals at the end of the week. The legislative proposals for which we have worked actively to deliver our conclusions, we have worked actively with the European Parliament, with the rapporteur Mr Dorfman, who is on the European Parliament report on the future common agricultural policy and, of course, at each of the meetings with the large agricultural organisations Kopa Kodzecca. I would like to assure you that the positions that both the European Parliament and the Member States have and the Agrifish Council, of course, and the debates that we have had with Kopa Kodzhka, have no significant differences in what the structure, priorities, simplification and all the other most important parameters of the CAP should be. Therefore, we are optimistic that this legislation, which is being proposed, of course, comes in all the details, will be approved by all the member states. It is certainly that there are member states that are much more high-tech, as part of Scandinavian countries, such as the Netherlands, who have a slightly different vision, but from the point of view of European solidarity, we believe there will be no significant problems. So our Presidency is continuing with the debate that will already be on the initially set drafts of legislative proposals.. three regulations are expected to be presented. They will be presented first in Brussels at the end of this week and at the beginning of next week in Sofia, at the informal meeting of the Council of Ministers. Of course, at the official meeting we will hold in June, this will be a major point and this topic will be taken over by the Austrian Presidency. Of course, this topic is extremely long, with many nuances, with many priorities and aspects. I'm available to answer any questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving on to the questions of the parliamentary groups. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions asked within 2 minutes. The largest parliamentary group of GERB will begin. Here you go, guys. Do you have a question? Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Since the common agricultural policy is a crucial mechanism for supporting agriculture and the environment for rural areas in Europe, I would like to ask what are your expectations of the consequences of the reduced budget for the common agricultural policy for the next programming period?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u39	It was precisely the adequate financing of the common agricultural policy, as I mentioned, that was the main topic and priority of the agricultural ministers, of course, and of the Commissioner for Agriculture. The reduction that is currently made by only 4% of direct payments, which is a basic income, and for Bulgaria with 0.7%... However, I would like to emphasise that these parameters, which are given at the moment, will from now on be debated again in the European Council, at the College of Commissioners, as each Member will have its own visions. It is no coincidence that I can tell you right now that large member states, which have a reduction of 3.9% of the budget, do not agree with this. Of course, what is at stake for Bulgaria is a relative preservation of the budget, which would allow for continued competitive Bulgarian agriculture. Undoubtedly, we already have enough experience within two programming periods, Bulgarian politicians, analysts, especially farmers, to know where to prioritize the funds. A more efficient use of the funds would enable in no way to violate the option of reflecting on the financial stability of Bulgarian agriculture. Last but not least, I would like to say that, in the context of a state policy which is constantly being followed for additional support, and it has been a policy for more than ten years, sectors and sectors that are not covered by European agriculture are being balanced. So we must defend, within the framework of convergence, Bulgaria should be with close subsidies and, of course, defend the position so as not to disrupt the competitiveness of both European and Bulgarian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues of the BSP parliamentary group, you have the opportunity for a first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, it is indeed an extremely important issue in today's debate on the new common agricultural policy, but, unfortunately, with such an examination, this important issue will not be closed. The debate on the European Union's common agricultural policy after 2020 has entered Europe in its hottest phase. Last 2017 the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development at the European Commission launched a public discussion under the motto "Modernisation and simplification of the CAP." Do we really need to change the common agricultural policy? The new system of direct payments has only been implemented since 2015, and two years later, a debate on change begins. Was the 2013 reform so unsuccessful? According to part of the European institutions, it is still early to give a single answer to this question. The economic and social effects of the recent changes will be visible only by 2020, when sufficient data will be available for analysis. However, one thing is clear: if there is a change in the CAP after 2020, then the most important element of direct payments must be structured so that in 2023 there is no need for new reforms. In 2016, when informally talked about a change in the CAP, many Member States, following the example of France and the Netherlands, began to present their analyses and concepts. Unfortunately, Bulgaria, through the Bulgarian government, slept through these processes. This important campaign has been reflected very violently. In the autumn of the same year, three concepts for changing direct payments, market measures and rural development were drawn up by the European Parliament. One, however, all are convinced that in order for the CAP to exist, the common agricultural policy, it must be adequately financed. Dear Minister, how will Bulgaria fit into these processes, what will be the specific pros and cons for Bulgaria, for Bulgarian farmers? Because if in all agrostatistical rankings Bulgaria is last, except for the production of pumpkins for last year, where we are first, Bulgaria lost leading European positions in the production of fruit and vegetables, cans and other agricultural products and products from the food industry. And you are about preserving the current philosophy of the common agricultural policy. We do not need to be told by a European Parliament resolution that local breeds and varieties have an important role to play in preserving biodiversity, maintaining livelihoods for the population and local production in rural areas. You, Minister, and the government are responsible for these issues and you must make sure that Bulgarian farmers make the most of the opportunities that the new common agricultural policy of 2020. And since the time of two minutes is extremely short, before I ask you the specific question, I will quote two...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u42	It's been three minutes. Sorry. Ask the specific questions, please, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u43	The specific questions are: will there be a change in direct payments, unit-area payments and are you providing for a ceiling of subsidies? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u44	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm sorry, but that's the procedure. I should have reminded you. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u45	Thank you. Dear Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have always, with you, Mr. Georgiev, had a very fruitful debate on the topic of agriculture and, of course, on the common agricultural policy. I absolutely agree with what you said. Yeah, it's all very complicated. The direct payment scheme is within six directions. Our tied production, which is part of these six directions inside, in another thirteen directions and so on. So one of the topics is: what will we choose within our direct payment package, which will be set for Bulgaria? This is precisely why this strategic plan is being drawn up, which is envisaged for each Member State. This strategic plan must be a bet on what each country will apply both to direct payments and rural development. Of course, these are priorities that every government, I suppose, will comply with the analysis and with the need and opinion of Bulgarian farmers. You know very well that Bulgarian farmers are already at a very good level in terms of expertise on these issues. It is no coincidence that their position, which was very well developed during the summer months of last year, is at an extremely high level with clear messages, what we would like to finance. So in the context of the demand for balance in all sectors, it is no coincidence in priority sectors and at the moment, I suppose, they will remain as priority and sensitive, as we would call them the fruit and vegetables and livestock sectors. Yes, Bulgaria has lost its positions, but you cannot deny that there are not many investments that are already financed under 4.1 and 4.2.... the measures for the production and processing of agricultural production. In the context of what we need to do, this will be a common process. The legislative proposals will be here any minute. Yes, we expect a ceiling of 60 thousand payments to come out in the legislative proposals. EUR per farm. We'll see exactly how this thing is signed. That'll show up next week at the latest. Our position at this stage and communicating with farmers is that we should at least keep the levels reached, even though the idea is to support small farmers and small farms. With this ceiling, which we have voluntarily taken for a ceiling of payments from this programming period, we have reduced enough and not only, the redistributive payment is also directed, as you know, towards small and medium-sized farmers. There is enough toolkit to press additional production, which currently gives a look and is profitable. Thank you very much for the debate and the questions. This will be a topic that we will continue together. I can talk for a very long time, as you have been interrupted, so I intend to end this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." You have the floor to develop the question, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the demographic crisis and the leak of young people from Bulgaria to the Western European countries and others, I would like to ask the question about the new common agricultural policy: what will the Ministry, respectively, do as a minister, and what measures should be taken to attract these young people to stay in Bulgaria and precisely in the sector........................................................................... I'm not gonna be too much of a talker, that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Sabanov! It's an extremely sensitive subject. I would like to start by saying that, at the beginning of the week, we had a first visit from the Chinese Minister of Agriculture in decades. Of course, it is in the context of the preparation of the form 16+1, which is due to be at a high level at the beginning of July. Walking around the country with it, around production areas, including Chinese investments, the Chinese minister said that even in China, rural areas with young people are being depopulated. Nevertheless, as you know, it is the largest country in the world. Undoubtedly, the CAP has significant potential to stimulate the entry of young farmers into the agricultural sector. However, processes of deterioration of the demographic structure, of agricultural and rural depopulation, which is not only a challenge for Bulgaria, but a trend in all Member States of the European Union, and even a global dimension problem, continue to be observed. It is no coincidence that the topic that we have chosen for the informal meeting of the Council of Ministers next week is precisely devoted to the renewal of generations in the agriculture sector within the future CAP, as we would like this process to be one of the priorities in the next programming period. One of the real opportunities for countering these negative processes, along with stimulating the acquisition of education and various trainings, improving the qualification, as well as providing free advice and advice, is the implementation of an accelerated digital transformation of Bulgarian agriculture. Young farmers have the potential to make the transition to digital agriculture. The introduction of new manufacturing technologies, automation, robotisation, production processes, the supply of solutions based on analysis of large databases and thus will give a strong boost to labour productivity. We had a special conference within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency on digitalization and digitization in agriculture. These are steps that I have now assigned to prepare a strategy that has already been developed in some of the countries, so that in the next decade we have a clear vision. Bulgarian agriculture, if it is left behind by this process, will lead to its competitive slowdown. In addition to the European Union level, defining a specific need for young farmers and implementing measures on the two pillars within the future CAP, combined with measures at national level to facilitate young people's access to: lending; business start-up relief; opportunities for land acquisition and possible tax reductions, will benefit the process of renewal of generations. In recent years in our country there has been an interest by young people in the development of business in the field of agriculture, which is largely due to the support provided by both the European and the government in the sector. The subject is very important. Some things sound abstract to me like digitization and digitization, but we need to have a clear vision that we can also point in this direction and attract young people. The theme of attraction has an additional toolkit for the ability with financial instruments to help start-up businesses, for lending, for guarantees, should also be developed with instruments under the new CAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We come to a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are to develop the group's first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! What we have heard from your report has indeed had good times. It is no doubt a great success that direct payments will remain. It is undoubtedly a good success that Member States will be given flexibility according to the specifics of each of the countries to choose policies in the new programming period. It is no doubt a great success that there will be an opportunity to transfer the funds between the first and the second pillar. What bothered me about the figures that I heard, in fact, and my question is: provided that against the background of the total reduction in funds in the Multiannual Financial Framework, in the part of Direct payments, we actually have an increase of 4% for the Baltic countries, and with us is minus 1%. As we know, our support levels were significantly lower than the old member states. With this distribution that I hear after 2020, it means that at a minus 1% reduction in funds for direct payments, our farmers will still not catch up with the levels of support in the old Member States. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: can we make a little more effort at least this minus 1% in the part of the Direct Payments (direct payments) to be zero or plus one or two, so that with this trend of increasing our direct payments and reduction in the old member states, so that our dream 2020 goal can be equalized to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Abase, of course they can and will be laid down. This proposal by the Commission, the DJ Agry, is based on an analysis of the levels of direct payments. I also mentioned what is the algorithm in the calculation, which means that Bulgaria has just over 90% of the average payments to the European Union. What, of course, at the moment, as President of Agrifish, I have only had the opportunity in all the meetings that we have had both in the European Parliament, with all the parliamentary groups represented, both the EPP and the Social Democrats, the Liberals, with Mrs Muller and so on, to set convergence as a process........................................................................ The big debate was, for a reason, these three countries did not agree with the Council's conclusions, namely they wanted a full levelling of subsidies. Full levelling of direct area to be for all member states. You understand that there is no one to agree on the other side so to say it from the old member states. The convergence is set in the context of the fact that they have a reduction of 3.9, of course, they are also dissatisfied. Each initial reaction, which was submitted by prime ministers, by agricultural or other ministers, which came out after the first parameters of the Multiannual Financial Framework. The debate continues. Critical concerns about a drastic budget reduction are dispelled, which would create uncompetitiveness not only for the Bulgarian farmer, but also generally for European agriculture in the world, which is also entering a very intense pace in North and South America, of course, and Asia. I make the commitment, so also after the Presidency in purely official terms, as so far we have not been able to express opinions according to procedures and rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm addressing the Parliamentary Group of Volja. Here's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Simplifying the common agricultural policy is part of the European Union's overall strategy for better regulation. The aim of the European Union is, where possible, to simplify and reduce the volume of EU legislation by limiting bureaucracy and reducing the regulatory burden on businesses, citizens and public administration. In addition, significant reforms of the common agricultural policy are being carried out. The aim of these reforms is to ensure that the common agricultural policy responds to the challenges facing the agricultural sector. The simplified framework for all participants in the common agricultural policy should increase competitiveness in the European Union's agricultural sector. Furthermore, simplifying regulation in the field of the common agricultural policy will save time and reduce costs for farmers, economic operators and public authorities who must respect or manage the common agricultural policy by respecting the principle of sound financial management. In this regard, my question to you is: do you think there will be a real simplification in the future common agricultural policy that we have been hearing about for many years?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Takova yes, I firmly believe that simplification is necessary and it should already happen and will happen. We expect it to appear in the legislative proposals at the moment. The main problem due to the huge resource, due to the huge direction of measures, the huge requirements, rules, documents, procedures.. all this made it difficult to infinity all along the chain: from paying agencies managing bodies to beneficiaries. The beneficiaries had to go into a lot of detail. Therefore, the simplification itself, as in the absorption of funds as the necessary requirements, must now be laid down in the expected drafts of legislation that we expect to see. Simplification and clear rules must also have audit activities, because there must be uniform audit criteria that are clear to Member States. This is also repeatedly debated by the Council of Ministers. I am optimistic in this area because in absolutely everyone, including in the European Parliament, the issue of simplification is a priority. The work on these legislative proposals will be very difficult. We believe that this will happen and perhaps a whole year, because they must be adopted until the elections for a new European Parliament. Our team, of course, I am convinced that, together with all the other member states, this simplification will be a reality.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. These were the answers of Minister Porozhanov to the first questions from the parliamentary groups. We move on to a second question from the parliamentary group of GERB. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in your presentation, you have introduced us to the numerous meetings you have held and a meeting of the Council of Ministers at which you were chairman. In this context, I would like to ask you the following question. Do you believe that, as President of the Council of Ministers, you managed to steer the European Commission in the right direction in the process of drafting the Package of Legislative Proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gechev! A very difficult topic that we have started working on since long before we entered as presidents. A topic which, after the release of the Commissioner's communiqué on the priorities or future of agriculture and food, we have been very active with all the Member States, with the Secretariat-General, with the Commission services, with the Commissioner, with DJ Agry, we have identified the most important topics on which we have opened these focused debates. These focused debates, as I mentioned, were public for all European citizens, for all European farmers, as the common agricultural policy is also for citizens in terms of food, ecology, climate and everything else that leads to positive results. So in these debates that we have made, in the communication that we have both had with the European Parliament and with the other ministers, they say, we have made the right identified topics to be debated. I'll just open two of them. The first one is about the tied production. Binding production is a very delicate subject for implementation in the European Union. Delicate because some of the large member states do not apply it, but implementation by other large member states creates a problem that would be purely competitive. An extremely important debate, extremely important formal and informal discussions, so as to find consensus on all these issues. Because yes, Bulgaria needs binding production. Now we'll see what percentage will be set. I'm setting an example. We will see what percentage, but we should at least, in our view, try to stand the percentage of linked production that is currently, even if we slightly upgrade it, so that these sensitive sectors, which are already gaining their market orientation and their competitiveness, can be further supported. So I would not like to say this, but the assessment that we have of all communication institutions in Brussels is that the Bulgarian Presidency very accurately and clearly reflects the priorities. It was a very important period. The first CAP debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are waiting for a question from the BSP parliamentary group. Mr. Stoilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u63	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to data from the European Commission for the two programming periods, the new 2021 - 2027 - and the current 2014 - 2020, in nominal terms the budget of direct payments is almost unchanged. We mean, by subtracting the UK Package. This means that the entire reduction in the CAP budget comes from the second pillar "Rural development." That's what you said earlier. In fact, the European Commission has probably taken the easiest decision from a political point of view to keep direct payments in order to suppress tensions in the agricultural sector in Europe caused by the need to cut CAP funds. However, the possibility of transferring funds between the two pillars at Member State level will continue to exist and the decision whether the second pillar will be strengthened with an increase in national co-financing is also left in the hands of individual countries. What is the policy and vision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the possibility of transferring funds between the two pillars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u64	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u65	Thank you. Right now, to tell you that we have a solution on the subject is to tell you something false. Undoubtedly, let the budgets be adopted, let us see the final parameters of the budgets. In the first programming period Bulgaria took advantage of the transfer of funds. The second program didn't take advantage. The Rural Development Fund is currently extremely interested. And you see the last reception times 4.2, which was for processing, again we have more than four times, almost five times more projects than those that can actually be financed. We must therefore very carefully assess whether there is an option to transfer funds from one to the other pillar in order to satisfy one or the other priorities financially. Of course, all this should be in the analysis that will be in the strategic plan that will be prepared. It is not for a reason that I think this is a good solution, the strategic plan to cover both agricultural funds and the Rural development, so that everything can be put in place. Not to have a rural development programme, which is separate, not that it does not give priorities and does not determine what is to be financed in the sector. At the moment, this will be a debate which again, as well as Mr. Georgiev, I have had the pleasure of saying: we must hold it together with the agricultural community, together with all those involved in the sector.................................................................................... I think this will happen not this year, but perhaps now that we are preparing our strategic plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will come? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u67	Mr. Minister, my question to you relates to one of the main directions in the new common agricultural policy. I would like to start first with the old programming period, when thanks to the new management of the Ministry of Agriculture, I assume that you have taken part in this, some 13% were agreed on a linked payment to farmers. It is a tied payment with a quantity of milk production, meat, kilograms of fruit, decare vegetables, which has a very beneficial effect on the whole sector and these 2% for legumes. My question is, is this percentage increased in the negotiation process now that you are leading for the new common agricultural policy? Whether you have the opportunity to raise it, to reach 25%, which would be a very good solution, especially with regard to small farmers, because they are the ones who feel the most, and the average, the effect of this commitment payment. On the other hand, it will make these farmers more efficient in their production, seeing that this linked payment leads to their relief, relief of the difficulties they face in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, an extremely up-to-date question. This was not a coincidence one of the most delicate topics in the..........................the... of payments on the one hand, and, of course, will there be tied support or not? As I told you, member states that do not use this tool have difficulty agreeing to remain as a priority. We will now see in the legislative proposals what percentage as a proposal will appear. What I had the opportunity to share just now, we think we should keep this percentage of 13 minimally and with a slight upgrade. I guess 25%, which you mentioned as a number, is a pretty brave number that even we couldn't protect. Not to mention adopting at European level. It is undeniable that the coupled payments are a very good tool precisely for sensitive sectors. They currently have their parameters which have been sent to the Commission. This is the year in which we can do an analysis because, after all, farms and individual industries have relevant changes in the number of animals, in productivity and in others, so that we can revise one or another parameter so that the priority of tied payments remains and, of course, with the option not only to keep but also to slightly upgrade. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give the Parliamentary Group the opportunity to take their seats and remain silent. Please, guys! I don't know if you can hear me near the door. Please, the Quaestors, pay attention to fellow Members who are right to stop talking! We are in a hearing procedure where the Minister needs to hear the question and answer it once he has made sense of the matter. We are not in front of ordinary parliamentary control when the questions are asked in advance. Please respect this effort and the need to hear meaningful and meaningful answers. Thank you. Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u71	Pay attention to your colleagues in the ruling majority!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u72	Yeah, they didn't hear me. Please, Mr. Ivanov, take your seats, please! I'm trying to keep order. Thank you. The DPS Parliamentary Group, of course, would have missed out on trying to bring order. Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the order. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Rather, don't take it as a question, because it's not a question. Rather, take it as a sharpening of attention or a warning, benevolently. Having heard where the new CAP is going after 2020, several things are very clear. The so-called flexibility will be introduced, which will give Member States the right to choose their agricultural policy, of course, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which is a national decision. The responsibility of the Council of Ministers, the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, the responsibility of the executive will be very great in the next programming period because there will be several very important national decisions that are in the responsibilities of the Ministry, of the Council of Ministers, of the executive power as a result of the implementation of the new common agricultural policy. The first of these is the so-called flexibility, which will require national solutions for the implementation of the CAP within the country. The second big decision, which will have to be taken again by the executive, is a transfer of funds between the first and the second pillar, also a very responsible decision. The third, which is also very important, which you said, is the national co-financing towards such a reduced general budget, which is also a very important responsible national decision of the Ministry and of the Council of Ministers. Legislative initiatives with a view to bringing the common agricultural policy into the country are also a very responsible national solution. As a result of all these listed things, Mr. Minister, a duty excuse that we had before: That is what Europe said. Unfortunately, in the next programming period will not apply and no one will hear it. In this sense is my message to you, be at the height of your responsibilities as well as the Ministry, as well as the Council of Ministers, because as the new common agricultural policy is structured, there are some very important and very responsible decisions of the executive and no excuses of the kind that Europe said will not apply in the next project after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Abase. That was an address to you, Mr. Minister. You're gonna take an attitude, even though it's not a typical question?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u75	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Abase, you're absolutely right in everything you've said. What should and I hope will happen is a complete communication not only of the executive authority, the executive with the legislative authority, in the parliament there is sufficient expertise on the topic of Agriculture and Agriculture, with the agricultural sector, with the scientific community, so that we make a strategic plan with the respective so-called subsidiarity, which gives us the opportunity, within the framework of the common rules, to set these priorities that Bulgarian farmers want and, of course, to take the right decisions. So the process, I think, must be mutual and we must do what is best for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And now a question from the parliamentary group of the party....you have the floor to develop the question, please, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u77	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, as the deadline for the European Commission to present the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union for the next programming period was approaching, the different ideas and visions for the common agricultural policy after 2020. When we talk about a national vision, about changing such an important policy, however, this is now a highly responsible task to which it should not be approached with a light hand. The reason is that, at present, the European Commission is drawing up legislative proposals that will visualise the common agricultural policy after 2020. This means that the European Commission is very careful about all the ideas and signals expressed by the Member States. In this regard, my question to you is: have you succeeded in identifying Member States with similar interests and positions on the reform of the common agricultural policy in the course of the discussions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u78	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Mr. Minister, you heard Mr. Netzov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u79	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Netsov! The theme in European Union legislation and, above all, in what is to come, is very broad. It will, of course, pass both through the College of Commissioners, when the proposals come out, and through the AGRIFISH Council, and, of course, through the European Parliament, the European Parliament, where absolutely all parties have been represented with absolutely all parties, where the debate will be no less than the one being held anywhere. So the legislation itself is subject to a very, very serious debate and given that this is the most widespread European policy to every citizen, it will be the most public of all. Of course, what we need to stand as positions and processes is good to be synchronized with member states that have similar views. What I have had the opportunity to share is that from Central and Eastern Europe, literally almost everyone, we have similar views, the Baltic States too. We are also extremely good at communicating with the large member states, which also supported the conclusions with the corresponding compromises from Germany, from France. Undoubtedly, I mentioned it a while ago, there are member states as part of the Scandinavian "not all," not to mention them, such as the Netherlands, which are at an extremely high technological level, yes, they even want the budget to be reduced, to reduce direct payments because they simply do not need such levels of direct payments. However, this does not apply to all the other 24 countries, for example. We're in very close communication with absolutely all of our colleagues. What I would like to conclude with you is that our Presidency has enabled all countries to get to know Bulgaria and in a little purely administrative and organizational way. Not that this hasn't been appreciated as a job. Including my colleague Taneva before me, in the context of good relations, it is no accident that I receive constant greetings to previous ministers to present, but the truth is that we have now given a person as a good administration. This has been assessed as a good one, how can I say, leading precisely on this extremely important issue, the future of the common agricultural policy, which will enable us to continue the intensive and fruitful debate on all of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members of Parliament, we have finished the questions from the parliamentary groups. According to the procedure, each parliamentary group has the opportunity to address the responses received by Minister Porozhanov within 5 minutes. I remind you that the Minister may at any time request and receive the floor for his statement. Before I give the floor to the answers of the parliamentary group of GERB, let you know that the balcony is attended by visitors from the Club "Friends 50+" from the town of Lyubimets. Let's say hello to them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] From the parliamentary group of GERB will you be concerned with the answers of Minister Porozhanov? Here you are, Mrs. Taneva. You are also the importer of the proposal for a hearing, we expect with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I can only join the public know of all assessments from other countries about the successful Bulgarian Presidency in the field of agriculture. What is the important message from the work so far, which should bring comfort to the sector and which makes the Bulgarian Presidency successful in agriculture? The Bulgarian farmer can rely on maintaining the levels of support. This was the biggest concern for them given the messages that were before the debate of the common agricultural policy began. Direct support for income, which is practically the most important because it reaches out to every farmer, about 100,000 people are engaged in agriculture as a main activity. It has the opportunity to maintain its levels and according to the details that will yet expand for some of the small and medium-sized especially even to increase. It's a success. Secondly, the tied support is one of the most important elements for the Bulgarian agriculture of the common agricultural policy after the negotiations and communications that the Bulgarian government and the minister led, it will remain. Of course, the battle continues not only to preserve, but, if possible, to have a nominal increase. Thirdly, what Mr Abas said, expressing an attitude or asking a question, the adequate subsidiarity of national decisions within the framework of the implementation of the new European agricultural policy, too, is an extremely good opportunity for Bulgarian agriculture. The current programming period in this respect is better than the old one and I think that the effects of this higher degree of flexibility in the current programming period the Ministry can also take into account as statistics in individual proceedings. The agricultural report is public, it comes out during a certain period of time. Anyone can get acquainted with it. The more appropriate subsidiarity in the next programming period will lead us, I am convinced, with adequate decisions from the executive and legislative authority to even better results for Bulgarian agriculture. The basis on which it will continue from here on, according to the debate procedure, is extremely good and it retains the most important pillars as the basis for supporting the philosophy and principles of support for the next programming period and, from now on, the great success is related to the details of the debate and adoption in the final form of the regulations that we are waiting for every moment and these days to come out as legislative proposals to the Commission. In this sense, we can really take account of an extremely successful Bulgarian Presidency in the field of agriculture and congratulate the Bulgarian Minister of Agriculture on this. From here on, there is debate in the details, from which details are then either reported success, or we see distortions that we are seeking, of course, to ignore with subsequent national solutions. There are many such examples in the current programming period. One of the bad examples, as it is quoted in the question, is, of course, about pumpkins.. only remind that in the list of tied support they were included in the Oresharski office. I'm just trying to figure that out. It doesn't matter. This distortion, anyway, we need to quote it. A greater plus is the higher level of independence of national decisions. Our question is responsible for taking advantage of this. I am convinced that the current team and leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will continue the tradition in the agricultural sector. An exception makes some office to make decisions in this direction by national consensus and communication not only with branch organizations, as there is already such a tradition, regardless of the type of cabinet, but also with all parliamentary represented political forces, who are ultimately expressing the will of the people in each term of the National Assembly. In addition to wishing for really sensible solutions and in these decisions, let every political power, regardless of its status in the respective mandate, as this will continue in the next European Parliament after the middle of next year, in these decisions, let us unite around achieving national objectives for the agricultural sector, which all the political forces have the same. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. People's representatives from the BSP group have the opportunity to be treated. Please, Professor Bachvarova, introduce us to the attitude of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I agree that the subject is extremely up-to-date, but the fact is that there are many unknowns to the future common agricultural policy. The problems are in two directions. Firstly, the legal framework to which it will be drawn up. And, secondly, the weather, because, you know, next year there's an election. That is, the legal framework and legislation, if they are not ready, means that the new European Commission will have all the opportunities to revise or make changes that it believes are necessary. I will only give an example of the "Omnibus" Regulation, which had to simplify the rules of the common agricultural policy with regard to financial mechanisms................................................................................................................................................... I would like to address a few questions that have been asked as such, but still from the point of view of pragmatism and professionalism, it is good to have precise and clear answers and a vision of how Bulgaria presents itself in the coming years in terms of protecting the interests of farmers. The first question that matters to me is the strategic framework. This is an extremely important document that needs to be implemented, made, presented and protected in order to be able to give the vision for the development of agriculture............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have all learned that there will be the possibility of transferring funds from the First and Second Pillars, the greater reduction of funds in the Second Pillar, respectively the reduction in smaller sizes of the First Pillar. But in this decision, I am personally concerned with this direction, that when it is taken, it has prevailed over one country or another, which has a much greater share of direct payments in the common agricultural policy. In France and Belgium, for example, 80% support goes as direct payments, which means that they will agree that Pillar One will be a relatively constant quantity without major reductions. While in Romania and Bulgaria there are about 60% for the second pillar. Transferring funds will be a serious problem and a challenge to the Bulgarian government. Therefore, perhaps the decision to have a general budget and to have the opportunity, according to priorities and the strategic framework, to use it is something that can really create prerequisites for each country to make its decisions. Again, in connection with the debates that each country makes, which do not stop respectively in scientific communities, at different conferences, I am impressed that some of the Member States that have the greatest share in the common agricultural policy as contributions and as a burden on agriculture. France and Germany say that this subsidiarity that we adopt can, in general, create a problem and prefer to talk about the concentration and centralisation of the common agricultural policy rather than the decisions that any government can make. From this point of view, we all believe that the Bulgarian government, Parliament, should do what is necessary to protect those positions that we believe are right for us. We have mistakes and problems in the past two programming periods, there are states in which the last minute the rules change. To point out that by mid-2006 Bulgaria had to have a farm payment and after mid-2006 it was transferred to an area payment. That is to say, during all this time,.. no matter who and how Bulgaria is represented in the European Commission, and in Parliament, it must have its own awareness that Bulgarian agriculture needs support, rules that are not worse than the current common agricultural policy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u84	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. For attitude from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction that in this programming period a process has finally started, which was expected by many Bulgarians, namely Bulgaria to set its strategic goals and to start following them. The strategic objectives, which are under the Rural Programme, are already known by all of us and the whole of Bulgaria. For the government, this is the production of fruits, vegetables, meat and milk. I think it should be firmly embedded in the new common agricultural policy, because this is the future of Bulgaria and not the production of wheat, barley and oats. I would like to ask if it is possible for your insistence in the negotiations that you are having to pay attention to the small and especially small business in Bulgaria, because this is not a problem of the European Union. Here I want to make a line, let me not be angry with Professor Bachvarova, but before the European Union's policy on the common agricultural policy was really about farms and is aimed at farms. Then, in 2006, too, there was a debate whether to continue this on farms, or to pass payments as decares. Finally, it decided to become a decare, which also led to this distortion in Bulgarian agriculture, in which we really received a very modern grain production, at the expense of the other traditional sectors in Bulgaria. It is also important, which is why I raised the question, because this is one way to stimulate small and medium-sized agricultural businesses, and we have a more serious linked payment to see the producers themselves, that the small ones can and have a future and not as it is right now. I have numerous meetings with small and medium-sized producers who feel serious problems, but few of them may realize that these problems are related to overall European development, and it is not interested in small and so to say inefficient business, a business in which man works for animals and not animals for him. Another issue, which I think is very important and which I suppose worries the MPs, is the big difference that has been made in the infrastructure regional development of large centres and rural areas. It happened the way it was during the time of By Tosho, when there were decisions national infrastructure to be made by road agencies and within the settlements roads to be made. And now there's this rule, but it's not so separate anymore, but when we went from the national network to a village, we started tumbling in holes and trenches. The same is happening now and we have some well-functioning urban infrastructures. I mean, for example, Burgas, which is leading the country in this regard, and I think there is no dispute about what a European city may look like after 12 years in the European Union. At the same time, if you go to any settlement 30 km to the west of Burgas, you will see an infrastructure that is about 35 years old. In this regard, I think that it has so far been wrong for the infrastructure of these settlements, of rural areas to the core extent to be part of the Rural Development Programme. Now a lot of people are going to be mad at you and accuse you of lobbying, I suppose, and wrongly so why did you give this municipality money, and you didn't give the other one, since the applicants are for 3 times more money than they needed? In measure 7, I mean infrastructure development. Is it not good for the next programming period to consider the common agricultural policy programme to stop dealing with pipelines, streets and other infrastructure, to deal specifically with its technological problems and not with regional development, which is entirely in another area? I am referring to this direction for the language I say it in Bulgarian, the cohesion of the different regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u86	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. The DPS group has the ability to relate. You're not gonna express any attitude. Will you take a stand from the party group? No. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to summarize. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, first allow me to congratulate the guests from Lyubimets. I'm also in the 50+1 category. [[Applause]] and I would like to thank the honourable Members for the absolutely professional debate that has been held today. All your opinions, speeches and questions that have been made before us are extremely valuable. I make a commitment from the beginning of July to make the first systematic debate on legislative proposals, both in the Committee on Agriculture and with the agricultural community, of course. On the 18th we will have a Council meeting, so we will see the first opinion of the other ministers on legislative proposals. It is certainly that we must work together, as I mentioned it. I agree with Professor Bachvarova on the topics that stand before us. The subsidiarity in question has never been understood by many. For example, in the European Parliament they go to two meetings from January to April, and could not understand that this is not renationalisation. It's a very long subject. No one wishes to allow such a thing and, within the framework of the common rules, Member States, following these rules, to give their priorities. This is the main topic that stands in the strategic plan that needs to be developed. I'm not going back to farm payments, land payments. I would just like to point out that there are already member states that have payments on a farm because there is a historical payment and a subsidy is formed that is historically based on a previous period. They already have a distortion in payment from the point of view of real agriculture, so there are countries that, perhaps in the new programming period, are already willing to return to payment of area, much cleaner in terms of commitments being made. I will not repeat things that I have said, as about binding production, which will be a priority again in our legislative debate. In conclusion, I would like to wish the National Assembly a fruitful work. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation and for your meaningful answers. This was the hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union after 2020. We move on to the next item on the agenda, further adopted by a vote at the beginning of today's sitting: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u89	Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Bill. Dear Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To your attention is the report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 854-01-33, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2018. He was adopted on the first vote on 16 May 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Public Procurement Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u92	Paragraph 1 shall contain the text of an importer in respect of art. 196, para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u93	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u94	Under § 2 "text of the importer for the creation of art. 196a. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced "Conservancy" Art. 196a. The parties involved in the proceedings and their representatives shall exercise the procedural rights granted to them in good faith. Their liability for damages in their unholy exercise is realised in accordance with the general law of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u95	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We will not support § 2. I'll start with a rhetorical question: what would happen if this paragraph wasn't there? Nothing! This paragraph is redundant as it is a single declaration. At present, all persons are obliged to have a special text in the legislation to exercise the rights to protect their interests. Accordingly, so far, a person exercising his or her rights vicariously exercises his or her rights in a manner in which he or she violates the rights of other persons is liable. It's exactly in the general order. This type of legislation, and in the Public Procurement Act, I consider it inappropriate and unnecessary, declarations and manifesting of responsibility that exists in the law at present. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u97	- What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Milkov, I cannot disagree with your principle finding, which we have also recorded in the motives of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law We have explicitly referred to the general principle established in the Civil Procedure Code and, as you rightly pointed out, this is basically the legal situation in the Bulgarian and continental European legislation. Our proposal for this explicit record right in the Public Procurement Act aims to explicitly notify all participants in the procurement procedure that this principle with its full force applies and applies to the procurement proceedings. That is to say, our intention and desire is to increase the responsibility of the entities, including to define their will, because you yourself understand that the establishment in the special law in any case means the formulation of intent in relation to the conduct of dishonest actions by the parties in the procurement procedure. Yes, it could be assumed to have a declarative effect, but this declaration is entirely of preventive importance, because the purpose of these amendments to the Law is to overcome the abuse of rights in this procedure. We have seen bad conduct in many cases, both in Plovdiv and in Stara Zagora and in many regions of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why public interest suffers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the motives say something completely different than what you said. It says here you're putting in charge. It says so in the reasons for first reading presented to colleagues. No new responsibility is introduced, you said yourself that it exists. Secondly, in terms of mindset. Prejudice in terms of damages.. The fact.. especially when it is from a legal person, how is the intention of a legal person proven? There is a presumption of guilt in the actual composition of delicacy. So I don't agree with that argument either. Again, the text is unnecessary, this thing exists in law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u101	Any other speeches? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Abuse of procedural rights, honourable importers, I do not know how I will find myself, first of all. Let's say that it is unfounded of the applicant's request, yes, but it is already reflected in the final act whether it is justified or unfounded. This is reflected in the final act and cannot be despised as to whether it is justified or unfounded. A partial action, let's say, in front of several courts, yes, but this is not about such a coup d'état of procedural proceedings, and notice rights. I heard the line from colleague Kirilov. The ignorance of the law is not an excuse, everyone is obliged to exercise his rights in good faith. Thus written this text here, really only aggravates the Public Procurement Act, is unnecessary in it. It leads to a feeling in the participants in this proceedings as a threat to the exercise of their procedural rights, if they abuse you, do you see, but it is not known how this question will be resolved, whether or not they have abused, with what evidence, in what way, what amount of damage and so on and so forth? That's why I think this text is unnecessary. We will not support this text at second reading as we did not support it at first reading. In addition, at first reading, there was talk of refusing access to justice in practice. This text really leads in this direction and in this direction. So remove this text, nothing will happen if it does not enter the Public Procurement Act. There are common procedural laws where it is clearly stated what are the rights, what are the powers of the parties concerned, what is abuse of law, whether it is procedural law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u103	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! Dear Mr. Popov, in order to be correct about the law, the legal principles and the legal rules, I would like to refer to the Civil Procedure Code of Art. 3. Article 3 states: "The persons involved in the proceedings and their representatives under fear of harm are obliged to exercise the procedural rights granted to them in good faith and according to good manners. They are obliged to bring only the truth to the court. This is not the principle, the principle legal standard in the civil process. However, you are well aware, because about two years we have been debating the new Public Procurement Act, that it contains a special order of appeal, including in its first phase the appeal procedure is specific to this sector of public relations. In the second part, where we have a judicial appeal, we refer to the Administrative Procedure Code, we do not refer directly to the GPC, we refer to the APC. Yeah, you'll probably object. Yeah, well, the GPC is subsidically applied to the APC. That is true, but in order not to enter into this study and this debate, what is the procedural law and the procedural principle that is relevant, what is the problem? Strictly, implicitly, to say in the special law itself, if there are any harms from dishonest conduct, they must be, there is a procedural possibility and there is a claim to be recovered. There is no point in my thinking to have this debate, except of a legal and technical nature, because I am sure that your will is not contrary to you, you have no desire to support the misguided speculator.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u105	Another line? I won't. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u106	In the reply of colleague Kirilov, I did not see any contradiction with what we said. Indeed, the GPC applies subsidiaryly to the APC. By entering this text, we think it's unnecessary. No research is being carried out, dear colleague Kirilov, this is clear and is derived from the natural principles in Bulgarian law. It is not necessary to write this text because we believe that it is fear that is introduced in the participating countries, and that it has such an opportunity for a coup d'état of rights, to take responsibility in general order. There are references, but one fear is introduced in those involved in the relevant process of appeal of the acts and of the public procurement itself. This will block to a large extent the process itself and the transparency in the process, which is what we are talking about. It still has this opportunity, it doesn't have to be recorded explicitly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u107	Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 115 MPs: for 86, against 27, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u108	Under § 3? text of the importer in respect of art. 197. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u110	Under Paragraph The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u112	Paragraph 5? text of the importer in respect of art. 199. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 the following 1. In para. 2: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the trader's company or the name of the applicant legal person, as well as the registered office and the last address of management, e-mail address and fax; respectively, the applicant's three names and addresses, telephone, e-mail address and fax; (b) c. 4 after the words the public order shall be placed comma and the unique number shall be added to the order. (c) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the circumstances on which the applicant relies its capacity as a person concerned, where applicable. (d) a new item shall be created. 6: It's six. a comprehensive and specific indication of all objections and the grounds for them, as well as the claims made by the applicant; (e) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7. 2. In para. 3: a) create a new t. 5 and so on. 6: It's five o'clock. evidence of the circumstances under para. 2, p. 5; 6. evidence of the representative authority where the complaint is lodged through a representative; b) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 7. 3. In para. 4 words by para. 2 and para. 3, p. 1.................................................................................................. 2 and para. 3, p. 1 " 3, 5 and 6
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! This text, too, we believe, should not be supported for two reasons. First, this text sets the beginning, which will see its realization in the next § 8, art. 210, where the applicants are required to submit simultaneously, to hold an e-mail and a fax. This means that, in communication with the Commission for Protection of Competition, public procurement participants, when they become complainants, should be forced to communicate only electronically, and by two channels, necessarily simultaneously. This should not be the case for us, all the more so, and given the provisions of the 2014 Public Procurement Directive, which, both in the preamble and in texts, clearly and precisely presupposes the requirements to introduce electronic means of communication with the participants, and I believe that the requirement of two channels simultaneously sets out unjustified obstacles to them. A second problem, not less in this text, is the question of the interest of individuals. Any person in Bulgaria who lodges a complaint, whether or not it is at the KPC, whether it is before a court of law, should have the so-called active legality to justify their interest, their interest. And this is a matter that the body is always investigating in its own right, because the absence of such is a negative procedural prerequisite and proceedings should be terminated. Once again, we write a text that is unnecessary, but further in that provision requires evidence from individuals of their interest, of their interest. Evidence from persons who contest an order for which the protocols and the decisions placed therein are publicly uploaded to the buyer profile and the whole file as tenders is with the contracting entity. That is, at the time of the complaint, the person stands on the desk and does not have such evidence of his interest. The evidence is in the contracting authority and they will go to the KPC at a later stage. In view of this, this text in this form cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u115	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. A line? Please, you have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Milkov, I will not agree with your arguments, which we discussed in detail in this regard yesterday, and first of all I would like to divide the two issues in dispute. One issue in dispute is the cumulation of e-mail and fax, and your objection that we are imposing another communication tool as a mandatory participant in the procurement proceedings for the country. The second question is the second question, it is about active procedural legitimization with regard to the existence of legal interest. I would not like to comment on the issue of legal interest when we talk about the means of notification. I would recall all that we said yesterday that by this measure we are only burdening the contracting authority, not the contracting authority, but burdening the KPC in the proceedings before it to send the messages, to send the notifications by two means by e-mail and fax, in order to ensure that the complainant is informed, which, after having already been a complainant, should not be hidden. Nor should we be so worried that the applicant did not have a fax. It is normal for each candidate to have a minimum technical suitability to participate in such procedures. I think that participants should also show good faith and diligence to ensure their participation in the competitive fight to win the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. You have the floor for the back. Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, in the Public Procurement Directive, which I quoted you in my speech and we should respect when we adopt a law, it says that when introducing such technical formats, the opinion of the interested parties should be taken into account to the fullest extent. The extent to which a standard is already used in practice by economic operators and contracting authorities should be taken into account and how well that standard works. The related costs should be carefully considered, in particular as regards adaptation to existing solutions. See, when the administration does not have the same technical capabilities everywhere in the country, it is not normal for the legislative authority to require the same technical capabilities from all traders involved in public procurement. Moreover, again, I told you yesterday, there is a principle of complex administrative services, in which it is the people who communicate with the administration who choose the channel on which to reach it, and they can choose another channel by which the administration will respond. We currently require them to communicate simultaneously and simultaneously only electronically on two channels with the KPC. Moreover, the public procurement participant communicates with the contracting entity in a precise order defined in the same law and this order is on paper or electronically and establishes receipt of these messages, looking for receipt. It is the same in the third phase, in the court, if it comes to the Supreme Administrative Court. We are interested in whether it was sent by the administration, which will be referred to in art. 210. So this is the first place where we have to think about whether it's normal to both require e-mail and fax to impose these two channels. The second important question is interest. I didn't actually hear a line to me. Interest and legal interest is an issue examined by the body to which you lodge a complaint. The point is, the moment you file it, you don't have any evidence standing in the file right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u119	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear importers of the texts proposed to amend the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Procurement Act! I'm starting my speech with a question. For which once again within this year alone are you amending the Public Procurement Act? Third time, guys. In just a few months, you've changed the Public Procurement Act three times. How many times will you change it or will we have to adopt texts, depending on your view how the next public procurement will have to run? The arguments thus proposed in the paragraph under consideration are: that the benefits are expressed in reducing the cases of abuse of the right to appeal by submitting complaints by persons who do not have the quality of a person concerned. With the proposed texts directly affecting the applicants, as it is intended to establish the quality more adequately in the Bulgarian law and practice, and it is in connection with the understanding of the circle of persons who can bear the quality laid down in Directive 2014/24 of the European Union and hence is carried over to the Bulgarian law and practice, which includes any person who has or has had an interest in obtaining a public procurement contract and who has suffered or could have suffered harm from the alleged infringement. With the proposed texts, you support the work of the administration and not be guided by the principle that there are interested parties who need to be assisted through the legislation in order to transparent this process. And that first, you exclude the hypothesis of sustainable legislation, that this is chasing investors, that this is a problem for those who are participants in the whole process, you are not interested. You don't care about Bulgarian citizens! You don't care about the Bulgarian business! You're only interested in easing the administration's work. And in a way that you create a corrupt environment, colleagues, and you have not explored this aspect of the proposed amendments to the Law at all. The persons referred to in this paragraph shall be obliged to justify and prove their quality as such without imposing material legal relations within the circle of persons who may have that quality. What does that mean? The path to hell is covered with good intentions........................that we are the poorest, precisely with these texts you are once again creating conditions in the administration, by the way, and in the Commission for Protection of Competition to have conditions. When there is an environment, then only with the repression of the state do you think you will fight corruption? You generate conditions, and wait for the newly established body with the 20 masked agents and with the ability to use secret collaborators, and with the opportunities with which it wants to apply the powers of the Ministry of Interior, by the way!? I would remind you that you should then ask for support from all the MPs and from our parliamentary group as opposition... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Transparency International announced a few months ago that Bulgaria remains first in the European Union on a sense of corruption. The problem is assessed as systemic and with the proposed changes you confirm this. From 180 countries, we are in 71st place according to the Corruption Perception Index... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u121	Mr. Iankov, you've exceeded your time. You've ignored my signal. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u122	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. With this legislation you are proposing, you are only deepening the problems. Mr. Chairman of the Legal Commission, Dear Mr. Kirilov, because you are an importer and you are protecting the proposed text, I pay attention to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u123	Mr. Iankov, I think you have too much to finish already. Thank you. [[The President turns off the microphones.]] Colleagues, please consider that I am understanding and that you do not abuse. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Iankov, I would very much like to pass your speech with silence, but I cannot resist the temptation. Your speech is probably as my future possible statement on security issues. I'm just gonna point out a few things. Firstly, this is not a third, but a fourth amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which is a brand new law. It implements European legislation. For this reason, we have had very long debates. You remember these debates on the implementation of the directive, and we have already stated that in view of the practice, in view of what we will take into account to our European partners and we will receive recommendations, we will probably have to stick some of the legal rules, respectively the procedural rules. It is strange to me that you have developed on this plane the question of the so-called legal interest which, in that norm, is actually manifested by the requirement of point 6............................. and a specific indication of all objections and the reasons for them.............................................. as the applicant's request. This is a standard rule for the administrative process, including there is nothing wrong instead of filing blanks, the complaint to be specific. This helps the proceedings at issue, also helps the body that settles this dispute. As we have already commented, much of the vices are in the blanquetness of complaints, in the intent to delay proceedings. I would like to share a lot of things with regard to the legal interest, but I stress the finality, because time is up, it has nothing to do with your cucumber talk, which has only a percentage of water, or with anti-corruption. On the contrary, corruption fights the specifics, and the particulars are in complaints. You'll see the complaints on KPC's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Iankov, the dodger. And I'm asking you to join us in time after all. I'll be tolerant, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you clearly do not understand that when public resources or European funds are spent, conditions are generated and there is corruption. It is precisely through the Public Procurement Act that the order by which such corruption can be crossed can be regulated and that no environment is created to generate corruption. This has nothing to do with you. The changes in the Public Procurement Act have nothing to do with corruption, which, I am convinced, is not in your opinion, but the researches of international ones show that we are the most corrupt country. I will not quote you foreign media, because there we are called with much heavier qualifications, but what you are doing is making the frequent changes to the Public Procurement Act, which raises not only doubt, but there are also specific texts that prove your interest as governors, such as supporting executive power, material interest in spending precisely this public resource and European funds. And that's the problem. I draw your attention to the fact that when you make changes in legislation, it is good to seek broad political consensus, precisely so that we are not indicted as the most corrupt country or country with a sense of great corruption. It's my call to you, but you can't hear. You will probably make many other changes again in the Public Procurement Act precisely because of your interest, which is not the interest of the Bulgarian citizens. Corruption is among the executive power and the majority that supports this power. That's where this fight must take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u127	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I'm calling off the job in 30 minutes. We will continue with the statement of Mr. Kirilov, who made a request. Mr. Bojankov, too. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u128	I ask the Quaestors to ask the MPs to enter the Chamber. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Mr. Bojankov, I am ready to give you the floor because the statement Mr. Kirilov is at the Conference of Presidents and is currently unable to participate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u129	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Regarding the questioning, this is a debate that we have also had under other laws. Colleagues and I continue to hold on to our thesis that we need a uniform approach, because in every special law, and lately these are frequent cases, we determine whether it is by text, whether by e-mail, whether by phone, as we have now in the Administrative Procedure Code, we have identified even telephone notification. This confuses the citizens, they need to get an education in order to find out which state body is communicating in how. It would be much easier to make a single system, as the State Agency suggested, an electronic management agency which certified the date of receipt, because such a case also appeared, how we certify the receipt. In this case, the legislator overshadows from the dispatch, but this is in the interest of the administrative authority. This is where the balance is broken, because the legislator, in this case, the government, is based on the interests of the administration and of the management, creating legislation in their interest, damaging citizens' rights. We insist that the email is not a reliable enough form of communication, because it is possible that the letters will go to spam, the letters will not be received, not that this will be the mass case, but such innocent victims will always be. To avoid it, we need a single system, not a solution per piece. What we're doing right now is a solution to this administration's particular decision at the KPC, and the lawmaker gives it to her. We don't take that approach. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u130	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines to Mr. Bojankov's statement? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, please don't sit down. You have the floor of speech that was requested before the work was interrupted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I begin the speech with the regret that I could not hear the speech of colleague Bozhankov, whom I congratulate on his appearance today. The Conference of Presidents even heard words that this should become a standard and tradition...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u132	Make it a norm.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u133	...parliamentary clothing. I've heard criticism about how to notify. I will, however, try to approach this systematically with an analysis of the amendments that we propose in the provision. As I have already mentioned, we have two central issues on which we seek the sanction and will of the National Assembly. Your first question is in the manner of notification. Here I specify that this is the notification, which is from the KPC authority. These rules are specific, they are relatively similar to the notifications in the previous or subsequent stages of the procurement and appeal proceedings. Why did we load the KPC with this job? We loaded it so that we could have verification, so that we could have a verification effect that the participant was notified. We accepted that the fax as a technique is widespread in business and commercial relations.. all participants in the trade turnover can easily maintain such communication and it is relatively cheap. Fax service is part of the general telecommunications service. So she wouldn't have bothered any of the participants. At the same time, the provision of such a cumulative method of notification should discipline the participants in the proceedings and should know that they could not abuse, or as mannerfully lawyers like to say, "to chicanify" the notification procedure. In the debate in the Legal Committee, this proposal met, I would say, considerable resistance. I wouldn't want this resistance to continue. You yourselves have seen that even the Public Procurement Agency and the Commission for Protection of Competition have been hesitant with regard to this cumulation. Therefore, in order to appease the opposition, I will make an editorial proposal in the sense of Option II, which, because of the sharpness of the debate in the Commission, we have not come to discuss it, that is to say, I will return the text. I will make a suggestion: where the expression.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So the fax becomes not cumulation, but an alternative that should calm your concerns, including for the smallest participants, such as capacity, in these procedures. I'm hoping this will calm down the KPC colleagues as well. I am using the case to say last night on the occasion of the European Day for Protection of Competition I had the opportunity to discuss this issue with members of the Bulgarian Commission for Protection of Competition and with members of the committees of other countries who adopted this rule and did not accept that in any way it violates the directive or embarrasses the participants in this process. But since there is doubt, let us overcome these suspicions, so I am making such an editorial proposal, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time with just one sentence...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u134	I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u135	I would like to point out that the proposal, which concerns the comprehensive and concrete indication of all objections and the grounds for them, as well as the applicant's claims, is a fundamental legal principle because it guarantees the right of defence of the opposing party to know the arguments, to know those which your opponent makes so that you can prepare yourself for adequate protection in due time. I think this proposal is fully harmonious with both the directive and legal principles and the meaning of this procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I did not expect that I would speak precisely on this bill, but because a few months ago, here in this Chamber, we were hearing the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev on the introduction of electronic government in Bulgaria, then I commented on the state of the electronic service system one of the horizontal components of electronic government in Bulgaria, of the electronic government, you were one of the people who protected this system. Then I told you that this system is made in a way that does not work, does not attract citizens and institutions to join it and use it simply because it is made in a way that does not work. You protected her. I'm asking now, I'm using the replica procedure: why don't you use this system in this case, but you're wondering how to change the text so that we can use some more basic components of electronic control, given that we have a built-in and functioning one? I note that we have received a report from a few days ago in the National Assembly of Mr. Tomislav Donchev, in which he tells us very much about these components of e-government - one of them is precisely the electronic service system, where it is explained again how it works, functions well and constantly register institutions, citizens and other interested parties to use it. Why don't we use it now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u138	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Danchev, thank you for the line that you have made, it is valuable for this debate, because before, in the previous discussions, I have thought about this exactly. However, I admit that I have not had the courage and courage to propose such a decision. Why didn't I have courage and courage? Because perhaps the opponents would say the following: this is still a form of state coercion, a form of control with regard to the participants in public procurement and it is probably another burden to register them and declare themselves right there. But speaking at the level of a working group, at first reading, I was convinced that the prospect of this notification was right in the system we were talking about. Your proposal is fully harmonious with the logic we are looking for in the APC, which is that I am returning the things from the debate yesterday in the Law Committee at second reading, because there we were looking specifically for a future analogy with the regime that would have been notified under the APC. I welcome this proposal of yours. If you want to do it, we'll support it. At the moment, I am not ready to do it technically as a proposal, but, see, this will greatly help the future development of electronic communication in all spheres of e-Justice, in electronic administrative services, because if this platform of the State Agency is intensively involving participants who are actively involved, it will become attractive, it will become like those social networks where avalanches increase consumers. I hope that happens soon. Thank you for your offer and your way of thinking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, we have guests from the second grade of the 18th school of William Gladstone in Sofia. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Here are our guests. [[On the balcony of the Chamber]] . Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5, with the editorial amendment made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov concerning the text of § 5. They voted 107 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 6, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u142	Statements? Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! A complaint to the KPC shall not stop the procedure in most cases, only in one case shall it be suspended. Therefore, the persons were given the opportunity to request a temporary measure to stop the procedure. This text currently regulates from what point the procedure will actually be stopped. The provision in force states that the contracting authority must suspend the procedure from the time of the submission of a complaint. How does he know this moment? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199 Two or three texts up, it is said that the applicant filed the complaint to the KPC with a copy to the contracting authority, i.e. it is known for the time being and the fact that an appeal was lodged. At that time, when a temporary measure has been requested in the complaint, the contracting authority must stop under the law in force. We are now being offered something else to allow him to continue the procedure and to have to stop if a temporary measure is requested when the KPC informs him that it has allowed this measure. This suspension is not formal because in this period, which no longer depends on the applicant, in which another state authority intervenes, the procedure may not simply develop but end. For this reason, we will not support this text either.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u144	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u145	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall delete in it the words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u146	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 22. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u147	Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov in accordance with Article 8. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: the countries are deemed to have been notified and the subpoenas or messages were served if they were sent on the same day to the e-mail and fax addresses indicated by them and in the second sentence, the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u148	One clarification: after a post-mail address, we read a copy or a fax. Isn't that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u149	May I have the floor, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u151	Thank you. Honourable Members, we have just adopted an amendment to the text of § 5 by which notification by the Commission for Protection of Competition is to be made by sending an e-mail or fax to the participants or interested companies. This requires that we make such a change in the wording of § 8 in a mirror. 210, para. 2, for which reason, and on the basis of art. 84, para. 2, I am making an editorial proposal in art. 210, sentence one, the words "on the same day" shall be deleted after the words "on the same day" shall be replaced by "on the same day" and after the words "on the same day" shall be added "on the same day."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mrs. Atanasova! I cannot help but say that I am satisfied with this partial change of the text, and the previous one, because the alternative of communication with the participants or in the next stage of the procedure is maintained. In this regard, yes, but what is happening? The text retains the wording that the Parties shall be deemed to have been notified by sending the message by one of the two channels of either fax or e-mail. How can a person be considered informed by sending him a notification? This contradicts many other places in the law where the service of a notification is arranged, where verification of receipt is required. It contradicts the same Public Procurement Act, where in art. 43 when the contracting entity communicates with the participants in a procedure explicitly in para. 3 is written down that the method chosen by the contracting authority must allow verification of the date of receipt of the decision. It is always sought to determine whether the addressee has received it. Today, we will establish in the right assumption that by sending someone a letter, e - mail or fax, they received it. So far, we've all been waiting for the fax report. Now they don't have to wait for him at the CDC, because the moment they send him, he'll be considered received. It's not just a legal puzzle, it's actually nonsense. There is no way to support the provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u154	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bojankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Imagine if we were to take the role of a potential adversary, how is it certified? Here the keyword is the keyword to verify receipt. Well, it's very easy to despise that for the administration it's certainly wonderful that it's received by sending it. If the e-mail was received three days later, the unfortunate time limit may have expired, hence the consequences may have already become a fact. This is great for the administration, but, colleagues, tilt the scales too much in its interest. We can't assume it's normal that by sending a letter, it's received. There is no such legal logic anywhere in law, comparable and not in other countries. There must always be verification! From the moment of verification, the time limits begin to run.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u156	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 8, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] Abort the vote. We'll do a background check. Before that, please, the Quaestors... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure to re-vote the text of § 8, together with the version proposed by me, on the basis of art. 84, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I will re-vote the version of § 8, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova. Voted 103 MPs: 72, against 20, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u160	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 72, against 6, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u161	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u162	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote.............................................................................................. Vote 107 MPs: 98 against 5, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u163	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a Department of Transport with § 12: "Transitional provision' § 12. For complaints submitted before the entry into force of this law to the Commission for Protection of Competition, the current order shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-31.u164	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Transitional provision" by § 12, with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. That's how we ended up with the Law. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Parliamentary Control Communication on 1 June 2018, Friday, at 09:00: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov; Georgi Yordanov and Julian Timchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova; Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov; and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev; Violeta Jelev, Georgi Gokov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Mihailov; Alexander Ivanov; and Anton Kutev; and a question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov and Julian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Veska Nencheva and Donka Simeonova; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Hamid Hamid; and one question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Boris Yachev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to two questions from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions written by the MPs Hristo Prodanov; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to five questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov; Georgi Gokov; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov to two questions; and Hristo Prodanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not be able to participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to engagement in scheduled meetings, meetings included in the calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. The next regular plenary session shall be on 1 June 2018 at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Programme. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
