ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, you know that under the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, a veto has been vetoed by the President. He has been returned to the National Assembly as I informed you yesterday. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include it in the weekly Programme for Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: New discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 197 of 20 July 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I suggest that this point enters our program under No. 8. Please, voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 175, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. Yesterday's reports were read, the minister spoke. The motives of the importer are here, Mr. Nenkov. Before Mr. Nenkov, Mr. Stoinev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When discussing such an important bill, which is one of the foundations in GERB's political programme, it is normal for the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to be present here in the Chamber. Yesterday he promised he'd come. We can see that he snuck out today, and maybe he won't take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u3	He didn't sneak out, he's just absent, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u4	When you make a promise, Madam President, it's normal to keep it, especially when it comes to a minister. We have many questions for him because yesterday he spoke a lot of untruths and we wanted to challenge them and prove their infidelity today in the debate. I understand that colleagues from GERB were preparing, headed by Mr. Nenkov, but at the same time I think it is the minister who will explain exactly what the policy is and how he will achieve the objectives set out in the GERB Programme. We do not accept him fleeing from the National Assembly. I ask you to call him to come, as he promised here yesterday, and to answer the questions of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'll contact Minister Nankov, but as far as I know, he's in Veliko Tarnovo. [[Heckling]] I'll contact him and let you know. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, to brief us on the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, please, before we begin the debate on the point, let us allow in the House: Denitsa Nikolova.. Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Svetoslav Glossov. Chairman of the Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u7	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 167 MPs: 153 against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, today we are about to adopt a very important law, namely the Law amending the Roads Act, which will regulate and introduce in legal peace the creation of a new type of way of collecting revenue and fees from the use of the Republican road infrastructure, of whole road sections or of individual ones. I dare say that what governments have developed in the last few years consistently, together with the World Bank, as a new model for charging such fees, even if it may sound high-pitched, is perhaps one of the most modern such systems in modern Europe, because in our desire to make precisely such a system that is fairer to take into account and distinguish between passenger cars and those who are heavy-duty, which have a greater significant contribution to the destruction of road infrastructure, to introduce a truly fair model. It is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency, together with our consultant from the World Bank, that has developed a new model for collecting tolls, namely an electronic system for collecting such fees, which will be of mixed type. In order to explain what a mixed type means, I will start, first of all, what will happen if we accept, of course, the Bill of 1 January 2019 for passenger cars, because there will be no difference in the future system, with only one difference, that no longer on passenger cars will stick wine stickers, there is no need for everyone to attach such papers or documents to the glass, but there will actually be an electronic system that will account for whether you have paid. You'll have an electronic bill. This therefore means that when you go and buy your electronic bill, which you will be able to do by mobile application via your phone, when you travel on the roads, on the highway, the system will account for whether you paid or not. Therefore, even when you are stopped, there is no need for the control authorities to require any document from you, as they will very easily have information whether or not you have paid this electronic bill. I am in a hurry, I want to reassure all consumers precisely of cars, where in fact are the larger percentage of network users, that no increase in next year's wine stickers is envisaged. They will remain on the basis of a period of use, namely one-year, quarterly, one-month, weekly. What is new in the Bill, what we have provided with colleagues, is to have the so-called weekend wine, which, of course, is to be discussed exactly in what time range, but also in view of the more flexible use of the different ranges of wine stickers, which are for a period of time, for people who less travel, do not often use cars, but have to travel, if you wish, and to their home places, to have the opportunity to buy such wine stickers, to take advantage of this flexibility, although such wineries, you know, almost nowhere. I don't know if there are any such types of wine, certainly not in Europe. In general, as revenue, the larger range of time for wine stickers is certainly much better for revenue and much longer-term, sustainable and predictable for revenue from the Road Infrastructure Agency, but we are betting that there will be such an option for consumers. Once again, although price models about how to set the fees, especially for transit traffic at all for all heavy goods vehicles over 3,5 tonnes, are to be discussed and subject to public consultation, what we can assure citizens is that for cars the price for their electronic wine will not be changed in any way. Here is actually the big difference between the second part of the system, because I said that it is mixed such... the introduction of the tol system. The huge problem at the moment and a great injustice is that revenues from the Road Infrastructure Agency are allocated absolutely unevenly to those who use and those who destroy the road network. If we look at last year, nearly 240 million of the revenue of the Road Infrastructure Agency comes from passenger cars, namely from the wineries, compared to 90 million of the cars in demand, which are over 3.5 tons, which you understand yourself is an absolutely unfair way of charging for those using this road network. The point and principle of creating this kind of new tol system is to make it the one who more destroys, the one who more harms, so good to bear its burden. This is the case in all the most developed countries throughout Europe. The weight must be completely reversed in relation to the current situation we are in. What's it gonna be? All these heavy goods vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of more than 3,5 tonnes will be covered by this tol system. The price for their fee will be set by several components. The first will be the category of the vehicle. There will be paid not on the basis of time as the electronic wineries, but on the basis of the distance travelled from point A to point B. This is its second component. The third component will be the introduction or rather the search for a option to reduce their fee depending on their category, their environmental characteristics, and in the Bill we have foreseen from the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th category to have their reliefs, but here is now a question of the will of the House. Between the first and second votes, we have spoken to colleagues from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, possibly in other committees, to reduce and, in fact, only for the 5th and 6th category to have such a relief when talking about some discount on environmental requirements. And the fourth component that will be relevant to the price of the service is the characteristic of the road. If we imagine a network of whole highways and sections, there will certainly be some areas that are not in good condition that will not be charged. Consequently, the state of the Republican road on which these heavy goods vehicles will move will be taken into account. What is about to happen is therefore one of the reasons to hurry and I hope that today we will support this bill: because in the next few months, if we accept it today in the first vote and in the shortest time and in the second, then we will really begin the commitment, with a decision of the National Assembly we have approved this agreement with the World Bank, together with the Agency and the MPDP, to develop a new price model. The bill is important because it constitutes a framework and gives the opportunity.. provides for certain regulations which must be made and which will also be subject to public consultation. I hope that we will very responsibly approach the Bill and be supported. Again, the efforts we have been trying to put into recent years to make a fairer charging model, to use Republican infrastructure, to reverse the income burden in the Agency by adopting the Law and introducing this system to be absolutely independent financially, as every year the state is looking for resources to finance the Agency. You know that it is with huge expectations that everyone wants to travel on nice roads, but the fact is that just below 340 million per year revenue from wine stickers is extremely insufficient and always the state is looking for buffers through its national budget to finance the Agency. It is with the introduction of a new type of mixed electronic charging system that we have expectations. The assurances and calculations that have been made over the past years have revenue of about a billion. This, you understand, compared to 330 or 340 million per year is multiplied by two or three times and higher revenue for the Agency. Then I really believe that in the next ten years, Republican infrastructure will already meet all expectations, the quality we see in other European countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. We're moving on to discussion. Statements? You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We just heard from the importer's motives. There is talk of revenue, expenses, fees, but, honourable Members, in the Bill, there is not a single comma in the impact assessment regarding the financial parameters of this law. There's no comma. Nothing! What will the revenues be, how they are made in time, what the costs will be...................................... the Bank will make this assessment!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u12	Thus no bill is introduced, honourable MPs without one comma in terms of financial parameters, and believe that this law lays down serious financial parameters both in terms of revenue and in terms of expenditure! What's the rush? The Minister isn't on top of it! No comma in terms of financial parameters! Here, this is the creation of the importers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We realize that after 2020, there will not be enough funds for the common connecting highway ring, which has not been built yet, and for the State Roads II and III category. That is why the parliamentary group has repeatedly stated: "Yes, we support the system. In parallel, we also read carefully the documents the World Bank creates and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Yesterday the minister tried here shyly to answer why the initiative belongs to members of parliament. Yes, parliament and parliamentaryism for our parliamentary group are first of all, but, see, on 11 November 2015, in a communication from the Ministry of Regional Development, where the World Bank report on the introduction of the mixed system of tolls and electronic wineries is published, it is written that, after the report has been reviewed, the Prime Minister will appoint a working group to create all documents to accompany the introduction of tolls. Dear friends of GERB, do you at least know who is the head of this working group? I understand that Alexander Nenkov and the group of MPs are currently taking the lazy administration out of position. And don't be angry, as a parliamentary majority and a government that you support, why are we complaining now? Three-and-a-half years, 2015-a, 2016-a, 2017-and 2018-half, a package of documents and now an initiative by members of parliament from the ruling coalition to remove the lazy administration from this situation that has not secured the toll system! It's okay. We will probably also understand what you are doing, but, look, there are a number of things in this bill that are changing three laws, you need to do more This is your last paragraph of the justification for the Bill. So three and a half years the administration is lazy preparing. Yes, we agreed to secure the consultants, yes, the contest for choice of contractor took place. However, the regulatory base of the European Union has doubts and concerns that on 1 January 2019, when the system will start functioning, it will not be documentary and administratively supported. I personally expect more initiatives here in Parliament, in this period of time. Next, honourable Members, there is the following question about the mixed system. In the reasons, as importers, you have written down: The Toll system on the World Bank's recommendation must be introduced either by a state authority or by a private entity, given that the data contained in the toll system is sensitive, in order to preserve national security and the interests of the population. We will now make a change, and it is being done today with this bill in the Transitional and Final Regulations we are making national tol government. There will also be appointments of people and organization in the Administration Act. But if you look closely at the documents you are offering us, the Road Infrastructure Agency will make contracts with suppliers, traders who will collect a fee, collect declared data, and in parallel, see, it will be by common criteria. And we are changing the Public Procurement Act to not be elected under the Public Procurement Act, but to be determined on the basis of this criterion. Here the question arises: to guarantee and secure these partners of the state...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u15	Mrs. Yankova, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u16	...who will appear, are structures already prepared to operate and partner with the state? And do we expect them as economic players and partners who will have appeared and will actually have the opportunity to partner with the state? Of this 14 per cent resource that will be collected from the toll system, they will also take part of the commission carrying out this activity. Give a little more publicity if we want the economic initiative of those who will be close to this activity to prepare a little, not to have prepared something and at the last moment to be ready and schematically downloaded into the economic space. Another question arises, which the Association of Municipalities raises, and this is a principled question. We say many times: When the Budget Act comes, we will pay attention to you; when the Budget Act comes, we will give you resources. Dear colleagues, 330 million. lv. from the Budget Act now goes to the Road Infrastructure Agency. About 800 million is expected in a good way that the first year will come together from the toll system. Nearly 100 million will go to administration, 50 million four years to pay off the device. This means, yes, the need for funds, more funds, we all know that about 6 billion. 500 million. we need to modernise the state road infrastructure. It's a good undertaking that's going to give... Other financial instruments will be needed to change the road infrastructure. This is good. However, the question is: let's say once the municipalities say that they need financial resources, when we look at a bill, we can safely, with expressed willpower to say: to the municipalities we will allocate financial resources and how much. Here comes another question. We talked repeatedly with experts and specialists: the state road network and the highways that pass through the settlements under the Roads Act is made by the Road Infrastructure Agency, by the state, but not always, and the sidewalks and street lighting are made by the municipality. Well, let's show a European model, decide and say: we want the highways, wherever they go, to be well made, beautifully made, and not to fold the mayors, to wonder if they should be at the Prime Minister's door with the bowl to put them a little bit, because the political hierarchy must be respected, or they will be faced as mayors with dignity, to walk and know that their financial resources are due...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u17	They don't deserve it at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u18	...that they have a state that functions well and that public finances are finances that all mayors have access to, representing the Bulgarian citizens. There are many questions, colleagues, regarding all of this, because it is something new for Bulgaria; something new for the users of this service; something new for the future economic players to face; for a new administration to be created; for the people who will pass through the Bulgarian state itself, so that we can pass more calmly. We don't have an information campaign on how to introduce the system. I hope and recommend to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development after the adoption of this bill to make a good information campaign, because this is how it is done in normal countries when something new is introduced on this occasion. For this reason, as opportunities that are given to us at the last moment, I would say a softer word. I wish I could say a stronger word, yesterday the minister cannot come as an angry child to say a few words to us and today to do his work on the holidays of municipalities and where there are, naturally, disasters. And you, dear friends of GERB, to take responsibility, to lip and to say how this lazy administration, which for three and a half years did not do anything, remove it from this situation. I don't want to be in your shoes, but the state still needs to develop. I know that you have political responsibility, so you must be in that situation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Jankova, with all due respect, the reasons for or against being a bill cannot be whether the Minister is here or not. Parliament is its function. Why are you bringing in bills? You don't have ministers, so why are you doing this? I mean, do we have to declare in any way that you're incompetent? I don't think it's right. [[Noise, lines, applause from GERB.]] Let's go back to the specifics. Firstly, was what is one of the most controversial issues in the Commission that they were entitled to the municipalities? No, the municipalities don't deserve it! With all due respect, I have been in the Committee on Regional Policy for many years, we have always sought support for municipalities. They have mine in a good way, a lobby in parliament, but this is a completely different matter. You can't, and by law it's like that, when you charge for a certain service, you can use it for something different than what you pay for. And that's all over the world. There are also requirements of European legislation in this regard. Yeah, the municipalities are underfunded. Yeah, they're like miles of road infrastructure, even more secure than Republican. What we have talked about, and here it is important to clarify, because the idea of introducing the system will make it possible for the Agency to be self-employed, then there would really be one resource being released, and you and I in the budget for next year can look for an increase in capital expenditure for municipalities precisely by the fact that the state will no longer be re-dated the Agency. Especially for this topic with municipalities should be sought a slightly more balanced approach and a little different from one feather to transfer them to another, with the clear awareness that the road network of municipalities is in quite poor condition, some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other lines? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] A statement? No. Wait. There are three people registered before you. Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Nenkov, you have not understood me at all. Not because the Minister is gone, we will abstain. And it's not because you're bringing it in. If the bill had been tabled by the Council of Ministers, there would have been a public discussion. The citizens would have known what it was about. This is where we close the door, we'll have a public discussion after that, post-factum. Secondly, I want someone to answer this mixed system and the announcement that has made the World Bank that there will be an extremely large amount of information in the new, national government, sensitive information.. you enter the country, you come out: who enters, which car, which driver, and the whole passage through the state road infrastructure will be known about each car in which hour where it stops, how it stops, where it moves?! This guarantee, with the additional partners you have, the traders with which it will be concluded, to what extent will it be protected and guaranteed? We must believe in our state institutions, for the state and state, and for citizens' rights to be well placed. But that's halfway there right now. Don't even realize that I expect the money from the toll system to go to the road infrastructure! [[Relations from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Admiral, you will speak for yourself! The money from the road infrastructure, which will be saved in the state budget, I wish we could behave like parliamentarians and when we look at the Bill, say: the majority and opposition have the will of the Minister of Finance to sign money for the municipalities.. 200 million of those 330 that go. Because the minister, if he hasn't heard that we're having this debate, will give you a bill that is about budget relations last year and we'll be more-qua-qua-qua-qua-qua that he didn't understand something and that we still have to get into a situation if there's money in the country, isn't there money? Therefore, there are many principled issues which are not publicly lit up issues that Bulgarian citizens and users of these services need to understand. Dear colleagues, that is why we will abstain. Otherwise, we are in favour of introducing a modern, good toll system, as this is the future of funds and revenues for the state road infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. To speak, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u24	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Again, which way do I listen to and don't believe my ears on a purely domestic matter? We're entering a toll system. Now I know that BSP will hold back. Why would he hold back? Otherwise, you're in for it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u25	Yeah, that's very interesting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u26	I am listening, but I should not be surprised to know that in front of this entire National Assembly opposition is opposition because of opposition itself. Suction from your fingers to stand as an opposition force and nothing else! Because that's what you're told. Your boss isn't here and there's a unit, a group of you has been tasked with doing obstructions at all costs. I don't know how many ravines of mud water?! Dear colleagues of the BSP, you remember at the time of the three coalition, you had prepared a toll system. You obviously have experience developing a toll system! I'll tell you what your toll system was. Your toll system meant every Bulgarian citizen, including light cars, I'm talking about light cars five eurocents per kilometer! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why you worked and fought! I think you're looking for a system like this right now. All this talk in here is bullshit on the scrubs! Votality, information about what publicity and information? What are we going to explain? We're entering a tolling system! Financial justification! It is clear the financial justification was, my fellow Members, 800 million. lv. A year that was lost all these years. I'm going to remind you of what happened during the Triple Coalition. Then the Bulgarians were saved by your toll system not by anyone else, but by the Ataka, which was the only opposition force. I will also remind you of this: it went unnoticed in the We jumped, we wrote letters, we swore, we went out on the stand, we put the questions on the agenda until we failed this disgusting design. Then it was time to introduce the toll system after the failure, then it was time to quickly develop a concept and introduce a toll system. You didn't, and things went on. Shall I tell you why things have been so long? The procedure would have been very slow. Here a few months ago, in this National Assembly, we were finally able to make appeals to administrative proceedings faster, for which you were apostrophe again, jumping, wondering how to fail it! And now again. I wonder! I probably wouldn't have taken the floor if I hadn't heard that you'd refrain from voting. Why would you refrain from voting? We are voting on something useful, which, once again, will bring the state 800 million. lv. Here's the financial justification! Nothing else is necessary! Vote for the House and come out today with a consensus. Today, let us do all together something in common for the Bulgarian national interest. Otherwise, the Turkish trucks will pass free across the country, break the roads. [[GERB lines.]] Is that what you want? Is that the point? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov? I won't. Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We, like the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, support the system in principle, even though we are going to vote abstentions today. [[shouts: "Eee! "]] For several reasons. No, there is no clarity in general the bill itself. In the Commission we discussed all the details and asked the Head of the Road Agency. Yesterday, there was no opportunity for a debate to ask the Minister. I even asked him if he would attend the meeting today, but he said he had commitments and would send the Chairman of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for which I thank him for being here among us. Dear colleagues, if you remember, whenever there are issues of parliamentary control, and in debates on roads, questions asked to the Minister of Regional Development, he mentioned the word "Town System": let us introduce it and there will be money for municipalities, and for roads for both Republican and third grade, that is to say access to the Republican infrastructure itself, from where toll and wine fees will be collected. Yes, there is a European directive. No funds collected from tolls can be used and allocated to the municipal road network. However, these 50 million, which are given each year by the Road Agency to Municipal Roads, are extremely insufficient and we all know that. Finding out how the task of the tasks is to find the way to increase these funds for municipal road infrastructure precisely from the savings that the Ministry of Finance transfers from 330 million to the Road Agency, respectively to the municipalities each year. From these savings to increase precisely the budget costs of the capital subsidy to the municipal road networks, which roads, honourable Members, are used to exit these Republican road networks and highways. I think that between first and second reading each with his mind and with his expertise he will offer options for what to do about this bill, in order to ease both the common and those roads that are combined with the Republican, which passes through the respective municipalities, even around which municipal roads are being led. I can give many such examples. A moment ago, Mr. Shopov also mentioned the Turkish trucks. Do you remember the road when to Lesovo, the new road that was being built as a Republican road network towards the border with Turkey, because it is a municipal road infrastructure, where Elhovo is at the beginning and at the end, I think it was about two kilometers, made the part that is a Republican road network from the Roads Agency, and that is the one that is municipal, and these same trucks pass through this municipal, was not restored because the municipality had no obvious funds. We therefore have to jointly make a combined funding system on those roads, which are the link between the municipal one, but there is a municipal and Republican one through which these cars pass. The investments must also be synchronously made for the municipal road infrastructure. Even if there is a regulation, if you will, when financing such infrastructure projects of the Republican road network from the revenues that have entered from tol fees and from the wine fees, to be financed accordingly these municipalities through which municipal infrastructure is being passed. Between first and second reading we will propose an option to be able together with this bill [[Replications by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov]] Please don't interrupt me, along with this bill, to introduce a system for financing municipal road networks that are connected to the Republican road network, because there will always be such anomalies as the example I gave you. Dear colleagues, these TIRs are not just destroying the Republican road network. They further destroy the municipal road network and can not 266 municipalities have a budget of 50 million per year as a capital subsidy for roads, bearing in mind that 20,000 km is a municipal road network, 19 500 km is a Republican road network, except for the streets in the municipalities, which are about 57 000 km. The finances of the municipalities, of course, are extremely insufficient. If the minister were here today, I had to tell him the words he said at every single speech that he would have the means for absolutely everything, for all the roads in the introduction of this notorious toll. Let's see if that's the case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Shopov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will set an example for the House and for all my colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Ali, very well outlined how you care for Turkish TIRes and Turkish national interest. What you have exposed may not be known to us, we may not have thought of it, colleagues and GERB, but you obviously thought about it and saw that Turkish TIRs have this problem. There is no harm when Turkish TIRes start paying, then we really need to answer them with a good service and fix these roads, so the Turkish national interest that you are defending in this case will coincide with the Bulgarian national interest in this way by introducing tol the system. But one more thing. In order not to accept this tol system for so many years, we need to know and be aware here was the Turkish national interest which, with its lobbies in Bulgaria, introduced the introduction of the tol system. These Turkish lobbies where did they see such a thing in Europe going like this, like fast trains through a small train station across Bulgaria, as they were passing, making catastrophes and causing constant damage to the drunk drivers of the Turkish TIRes and not paying anything?! For years only in Bulgaria was practically free. That's why you're making these obstructions before the Administrative Court, so some companies registered somewhere you know without capital, by chance, just so they've been filing complaints that have delayed this action for years. So let's quickly adopt this law and move towards the release of the Tol system this year, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Shopov, your time is up. Thank you. Any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Ali, will you use your right to dodge?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u32	No, it's beneath me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u33	Thank you. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The issue is serious, it has been commented since 2015. In April this year, there was a sociological survey regarding the introduction of the Tol system. Sixty-one percent of the people who are asked approve of the introduction of the system, 31% do not know at all what it is and only 8% do not approve of the introduction. Fifty-seven percent of people say that this is good because it will be paid not for passing for time, but for tolling distance, drivers will not be forced to rush and this will lead to fewer accidents on the country's roads. Eighty-one percent believe that this will help restore depreciation routes. In addition, however, almost all respondents say they do not know what the parameters of this tol system will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u35	We don't know either.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u36	That's the bad thing that you don't know! [[Heckling]] The Council of Ministers had to submit this document, because under art. 10, para. 7 the current bill must be drawn up two extremely important regulations. The first regulation is the terms, order and scope of the tol system. The second is in terms of financial parameters and tariffs. The first regulation is submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the second regulation by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Finance. By the way, when we looked at the Committee on Regional Policy, this law, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, was not, which was surprising. Why is it important to know the parameters that will be laid down in these regulations? In many of the speeches, the Minister of Regional Development says that the right roads of 19,500 km of Republican network are about 13,000 km, or that is about 60 " 65%." Is that what the scope is going to be? Because we're talking about a financial resource within 800 million, and we're not saying how many kilometers, what range this financial resource will be generated from. I'm giving you an example. In Slovenia, which is a country of the European Union, the scope of the Tol system is only 15%. Second example. In Turkey, the support of the Tol system is from 12 to 14 million, and of all the talks that have been held so far, there is talk of sums of support for the Tol system in Bulgaria several times larger than those that are, for example, in a large country such as Turkey, which is not in the European Union. These explanations should have been received, and not spoken: "You are exhibiting some opposition, see, and you will vote in abstention! " No, we want answers to many questions, because through the answers given here, these answers will also reach people, they will also give reasons for a good and correct vote. The other issue I would like to address is the municipal road network. She's pretty much equal to Republican. The most important issue we need to pay attention to here is that the money that is currently being allocated as capital expenditure is very little. Fifty million, do you know how long that's gonna take? Enough for about 80 square feet of mending per kilometer of municipal Republican road network. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] About 80 squares can be mended with 4000 leva, which is laid per kilometer of municipal road network. And it is a leading infrastructure and must be seen as extremely important to the Republican road network. The other question that we don't get an answer to when we talk about the range of the toll system is: will there be duplicate paths of paid ones? In many of the countries where this toll system is introduced, there are others besides the paid roads that are not paid and are duplicate roads. [[Heckling]] We know very well that the increase in the fee for heavy goods vehicles and buses will also lead to the increase in some other prices from what is being used. One question regarding the winery "Wikend" which passed in passing when commenting on the regulation. The vintage is a good proposal from a social point of view. But let us also consider the matter in another aspect. Three million cars come into our country, most of them travel on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Will they benefit from these social benefits of the winewine, or are we going to do it the way it is in Europe? In Europe, it's a weekly bill. There must also be regulation here and it can be very easy because border crossing points have information about foreign vehicles entering. Personally, I believe that foreign passenger cars entering Bulgaria should not benefit from the relief of wine for the weekend. My fellow Members, it has been mentioned here why we are going to vote abstentionally. In addition to what I have said so far, the main point is that the questions raised, which we do not have an answer to and which should be commented in a package with the proposal of Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, create more questions than we have answers. And when a proper decision is to be made, a good management or legislative decision, the answers to the questions must be given by this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Dinkov, first of all, in terms of prices. At the beginning of your speech you said that we do not know the prices yes, we do not know the prices. With this law we give the framework, that is what the minister said: the framework for the launch of the Tol system is given. After this September, public discussions will be held, prices will be discussed, scopes will be discussed. That's in terms of prices. I don't understand why you would hold back when your party is about tol system?! I don't know why you're against the frame.! Then we'll have a debate about prices, we'll have a debate about scope. But support today the creation of the frame for the toll system, and the other things will go step by step. I have a question for you, Mr. Dinkov. You are a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, I presume. I suppose you're basically asking questions about the unrepaired roads, perhaps in the area where you were chosen, is that correct? Maybe that's the kind of question you ask?! Isn't that right, Mr. Dinkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u39	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u40	That's right, thank you. I ask you: do you know how much money is currently entering the Road Infrastructure Agency and how much money is going for roads? [[Reply from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov.]] You know what? You know. And do you know how much money will go after the system goes in? [[Heckling]] Much more, Mr. Dinkov. Much more money will go for roads. With this money will repair much more kilometers of road infrastructure. So support the Bill today to create the framework, everything else will then be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dinkov, can you imagine how in law we will write down the fees in the future mixed toll system? You expect in the Law something we did not foresee that should be done as regulations, to predict in the Law, and you and I to calculate how much cars or trucks must pay... That's my first remark. This is absolutely inappropriate. Can you imagine if every year we would have to amend the Roads Act, for example, to set new tariffs. This is an annual work of the Agency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. This is not serious! The second thing, first of all, is not true to you and statistics, as it is said that almost people did not know, were not informed. It is not the percentage that you said, faithful " 82% of the people who are asked, say that the future toll system and in fact the charging of the heavy goods vehicles they are ruining is absolute and stand by that they must pay more. And I don't see what misunderstanding it's about. I'll give it to you very simply, the longer we delay, the more trucks, and this is not about Turkish or other nationalities paying transit of 12 euros, they will pass through the whole territory of the country. There's no such thing in the world! Literally, they're going through the country for free! And the longer we take, the more stubborn and opposition, the slower this system will come in and the more revenue we will have lost. And because you're comparing with other countries, I don't know if you know, but in other countries... Bulgaria supports the Agency only from wineries. In other countries, besides wineries, for example, for the use of certain road infrastructure, there is also a road tax separately. Some areas themselves impose such own road tax. They have a third income, and that's a liter of gas you're charging. And from several places they fill in the revenues of these agencies. And right now, we've only got wine income and we don't want to cover the transit and the trucks that they're really ruining.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Ivanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Colleague Dinkov, I couldn't help but make that line for a few reasons. My colleagues before me also marked some inaccuracies that you quoted about how many people are familiar with the system, what expectations they have for it. The truth is one.. by commenting today on this bill, precisely that we are launching the procedure and then in all public discussions people will be aware of the details, but as they say many times, we know it all, the devil is in the details. It is by creating this system and discussing this bill today that we allow for a fairer charge and not to the citizens, but to the business, and rather to the business, the transit, which passes through Bulgaria. Because, agree with me, you also quoted Slovenia, I will tell you about the Croatian system in these countries is so made that the funds that they collect from the transiting business and transport companies to remain precisely for the construction of road infrastructure and to benefit the population of these countries, so it is by delaying this procedure today that you do not support it, I want you to say do not want to build highways? Because over 300 km of highway was built in the previous ten years, and the previous 40 years were built in the last 150 km of highway. The government has a programme and funding for the next five years to build another 300km of highway. Knowing this, I urge you to support this bill and really support the system in Bulgaria, the mixed type of system, which is with the charge, to be for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens. It is proposed to be organised so that those who destroy and exploit the road network will pay more and this is the fairer way by charging transit and for Bulgarian citizens with LCVs there will be no change, we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Dinkov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On many of the issues on which the lines were made, we have no differences. [[Noise and lines.]] The differences are in other things that you didn't catch them as shades. The first question you cannot answer is that we are not delaying the adoption of this bill. You slow him down, you comment on him for a long time, and you slow him down. And we want answers to some of the questions because, I say one more time, it's called a sum of 800 million. This amount can be achieved on the basis of a certain scope. What's this range going to be? No one knows. The second question is: from this amount we will pay 50 million to the company that builds the system, we will pay to a unit that will manage the system, there are other additional costs, commissions to the individuals that will collect, and so on and so forth. According to preliminary studies, there was talk of 150 million, in the first years of 200 million expenditures. Separately there will be costs for maintenance of the road network. How many of them will remain to build new roads? We don't mind. There's no one against building new roads and new highways. We therefore ask the most questions from the parliamentary platform regarding the Republican road network, because if there is a good Republican road network, there will also be living centres where people can work, use health and social services. Therefore, the parameters of these two regulations, which should have been introduced in one part, would have given answers to many questions, but the administration has been delayed for several months with this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is no way such an important issue could go without a meaningful debate. And I'm provoked by some of the speeches before me to take a stand. No one is arguing here that road infrastructure should be built in the country and no one is arguing that it should be introduced toll system and that it is the fairer method. We don't have a fight about that, guys. Because you guys go out all the time and do lines. What we argue about, and what we have a claim to the Council of Ministers and, in particular, to the Road Infrastructure Agency, is that it is not doing its job. And I, if I have comments, are that why is it lost for half a year and all actions on the introduction of the Tol system in Bulgaria are not done? Why is this bill being tabled in the last week of the National Assembly before the summer vacation at the moment? [[Noise and lines.]] Why is this bill being tabled now? And here I begin to read: with MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP February we raise the issue of the introduction and exploitation of the toll system. February month we state that the BSP parliamentary group is ready and wants to participate in the debate on the introduction of the Tol system. We want to have this conversation several times in the competition committees, because the conversation is about the scope of the system, the conversation is about the tariffs of the toll system. This whole conversation is in the National Assembly. And through this conversation we want the national interest to be very clearly protected. That's what we wanted from you. You are constantly running away from such a conversation in the National Assembly. On January 15th, the treaty was signed. Notice what the minister, who is currently absent, says, and this is his most important Bill, something that from morning until evening, when filming to any road, explains that he will introduce toll the system, a bill that introduces the legislative framework for its operation, the minister is absent. Note what he said February month to a question we asked him with colleague Svilenski and Ivanov towards him. He says that the first seven months of the signed contract for building the Tol system are mainly intended for designing and building the system, delivering the necessary equipment, software and all other components of the system, as well as carrying out the initial tests in its individual components. Ladies and gentlemen, the first seven months have passed. None of this happened. [[Heckling]] I continue to quote Minister Nankov and for the remaining 12 months it is important to prove functionality in the real working environment, correct the defects, adjust the system as it happened in..., and list all countries in which there has been such a period of adjustment of 12 months. With this law you introduce that in the system electronic wineries start from January 1st next year, and the tariffs already on heavy goods vehicles over 3.5 tonnes from August month. When are we going to build this facility, when are we going to get it to function? If you have reproaches on us, I rather mean that you are delaying the introduction of the toll system. I don't want to go any further and say that stopping the introduction of the system serves certain economic interests. I don't want to go talking about this matter with carriers, bus... Don't let me go talk about heavy lifting. Not going to talk about this topic of transit traffic, because delaying the introduction of the Tol system is detrimental to national interest. And this is happening now because you have missed six months to implement the system and all the actions you are doing at the moment show that the administration and the Council of Ministers cannot handle this task. Either he can't or he won't. And these are our reproaches that we have on you, with the remarks that we have on this bill, because it really did not have Nenkov to pull out the chestnuts and import the Bill, and it would have been tabled by the Council of Ministers, it would have passed the relevant discussions, it would have gone through the relevant procedure, and not so expressly on the previous working day to look at such an important bill. I conclude that the parliamentary group of BSP will actively participate in the discussion on the introduction of the Tol system with a clear aim to protect the national interest, the national interest of Bulgarian consumers, to whom, after the introduction of the Tol system, it will affect the overall prices and services received, to protect the national interest of the Bulgarian companies, which will also be affected by the introduction of this tol system and therefore we want this conversation to be held in the competition committees and in the Bulgarian Parliament. And we insist on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Boychev, first of all, in terms of prices of wine, I assume you know that prices are determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers at the moment. There's no record of the price of the bill anywhere in the Law. Isn't that right, Mr. Boychev? [[Noise and lines.]] Well, if that's the case, what are we arguing about, Mr. Boychev? With regard to the second part of your speech, we are delaying the process of introducing the Tol system. We're not slowing him down. It is being delayed by companies and citizens who have been blasphemously filing complaints against the toll system, something that we changed about two months ago, and we can therefore now congratulate ourselves with success with the adoption of this law that we are going to introduce tol the system. I don't know what you're arguing about or what we're arguing about, since you've repeatedly said that you're a member of the system and you're accusing us of delaying it. All right, vote on it, let's get this over with, and let's move on. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u52	You misunderstand me, Mr. Ivanov. I do not want tariffs and prices to be recorded in the Law. There is really no place for them, but the conversation about the scope of the system, the discussion about the policy that will be conducted through the tariffs, is entirely within the framework and the competence of the Bulgarian National Assembly and, by the way, of your portfolio committee, to which, you say, have you called a meeting of the press committee for example to comment on this issue? Let's see how and how... [[Noise and lines.]] No, you can also refer it to the Regional Commission, but it is also relevant to your committee, so it is quite normal to have a political debate, a political discussion about the effects on this system, the impact of the toll system on the consumers, the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business, it is normal to conduct itself as such here. You cannot in the country think that this type of system can be introduced, the way of financing the road infrastructure can be completely changed and all this can go without the participation of the Bulgarian Parliament. That's why we're arguing right now. And, by the way, it is quite normal for the Bulgarian Parliament to have information about this. I return again to February, your minister answers: currently the tariff is under preparation outside the framework of a contract. Colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency have established an interdepartmental working group with colleagues from the Customs Agency, Border Police, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Internal Affairs, not to list everyone. And they're preparing along the range, the options and all that's going to be proposed. Is it normal for the Bulgarian Parliament to have information? Is this thing normal for Bulgarian representatives?... When would that happen? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u53	We will participate in the public discussion. JELLY BOYCHEV: What I am arguing with you about right now is that you delayed the system by six months. You can't run away from that statement and prove it. These three years, which you say the introduction of the Tol system has been delayed, is because of the appeal and procedures, but for these three years the administration was aware of what should end after January 15th, when the treaty was signed to get us into the situation today to be 26 July and to be nowhere with the tol system.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u54	Since when is the contract?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u55	This year the contract is signed on 15 January and seven months is clear what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Come in for a speech, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The big debate today is not whether there should be a toll system. This is certainly a necessity for the state and brings a political and state-owned effect which is sought from its introduction to more revenue in the state treasury. The fact is that the Road Infrastructure Agency will have more funds. As Mr. Nenkov has expressed himself in the Commission, these funds will probably be spent on something else. That's good. The colleague Tanner Ali very rightly pointed out that special attention should be paid because it will cover 80% of the road network, what will be the effect of the tol system that will be introduced on the Bulgarian municipalities? Will their budget for maintaining their own municipal infrastructure increase? That's why we're arguing here right now, and that's what we, the opposition, want to find out. Because when an important bill is proposed, there must be a relevant algorithm, there must be a corresponding concept and on the basis of it we all, the MPs, when we enter our electoral areas, fully explain to our voters why there should be such a toll system and what the effect is because there is a misunderstanding, uncertainty. It's not that it shouldn't be introduced. When we talk about 80% of the road infrastructure being covered by the toll system, that means that every heavy goods truck leaving the garage pays a higher fee. The distribution of this burden from the higher charge on whom is it on? Who is it on, dear fellow importers? That's what we want to find out! Because when you do not provide the information or you do not know how to provide the information to the Bulgarian citizens, it comes to everything we observe outside the parliament. You know what I'm talking about. Of the total number of vehicles passing these roads, 30% are heavy goods vehicles, whether from abroad or from Bulgaria, the rest are light-duty. When we talk about light-duty cars, it is explained that an electronic bill for cars will be introduced. I'm asking a question: how are we going to account for these electronic wineries? Will car owners be obliged to put on an electronic sticker or buy something extra to do the reporting? All of this is on the pocket of the Bulgarian voter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u58	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u59	All these things lead to the petty ambiguities that we want to understand, to know, not to see if it will have an effect on the toll system. It's clear there will be. The state must have such a tolling system. No one's against it. That is why the colleague said that between first and second readings we will make the relevant remarks and try to have a clear, complete concept of this toll system. And let us not forget, fellow Members, that when a system is introduced, there must also be alternative ways. We cannot oblige someone to use 100% this road network that covers the toll system. We don't have that. Yes, this is how the executive decides, so decides the state and thus introduces the system, but when these things are explained to the Bulgarian citizen, to the people who will be affected by the effect of increasing the costs of heavy goods trucks, I think it will then have a better effect than this debate we are having today. This is short, honourable Members. We will abstain from this vote, and between first and second reading we will make the relevant comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I had decided initially and categorically in no way to take an opinion on this bill, but I see that the debate is treading, basically, on the basis of some not particularly grounded arguments. I will therefore say what I also said in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I congratulate Mr. MRB and my colleagues for submitting this bill. [[(Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria]] They didn't bring it in, but they developed it. There's no doubt about that... [[Replicates in "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I'm going back to the history of the Toll System debate. As you know, this isn't a debate from yesterday, it's not a debate from three years ago, it's not a debate from 10 years ago, it's from more years ago. Mr. Svilenski is happy, he remembers the contract for the highway.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u62	But he's sad!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u63	Mr. Svilenski, I will not comment on this, I would say, an unfortunate attempt to conceit the highway of Trakia, where the cost of the journey was to be 50 BGN at the toll from Sofia to Burgas. That's a very socially bearable price. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] . We will not argue that this is the socially most bearable price to be charged on this system. I want us to run away from these details, not that they're not important. They are important and are an indication of how thinking about the tol system developed. I am pleased even to see a BSP colleague who read statistics from a study saying that support for the Tol system was enormous. I am sure that there are citizens who do not support the construction and introduction of the system. In fact, we need to keep in mind and keep in mind that this system is an additional alternative charge, which complements the inability of road tax to service investment needs for road maintenance. The great dignity of this bill is that it does not comment in any way on property rights and problems related to road management as a legal concept, as an object. I had great concerns that this law would spread. I'll mention the triple coalition, which I regret, but I can't help but compare the other idea of the toll system. It was as follows: you paid the concession fee on the line of the Law, but then we adopted the first concession law, which had to ensure the traffic achieved, agreed in the concession contract. For example, we write in the concession contract a thousand units of traffic, report a hundred units, and besides tol the income we want the concession to restore us nine hundred units. This is what you wrote as Law in 2006. I therefore say that the proposal that has been made is the most moderate and most correct legislative approach possible. Please let my colleagues from the BSP hear me: when, fellow lawyers, were you right when you said that there could be no fees in the APC, or now when you say: "We want in the Law to have fees! When? When? So in one case there should be no fees in the Law, and in the other case there should be no Law without the fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u64	Who said that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u65	Why is it the right approach? It's right because it gives the frame. This is the achievement.. refers to the regulation, but it, as has been explained, will be made according to all requirements, according to the Law on Legislative Acts. It will be based on the analyses assigned and produced, i.e. they will provide the indicators, parameters, scope, economic and financial justification of the relevant fee based on accurate data. When the concession contract was concluded at the time of Gagauzov at the highway "Trakiya" there was no data. Then it was concluded as in a dark room. But now there's data. More data are expected, and on the basis of these will be developed the regulation, which will be publicly discussed, will also be controlled by parliament, because on any occasion you will be able to call the minister to provide information on the different parameters of his proposals. I think that's the right move. According to the argument, there are no alternative roads. There were no alternative roads in 2003 "2005." Now, colleagues, in every main direction in Bulgaria there are already roads. If a new road is built, the existing infrastructure provides sufficient opportunities for a tour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's a statement, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I cannot understand why you are under the impression that the BSP parliamentary group is against this system. From this tribune I have said at least five times that this is the fairest system for charging cars in Bulgaria. Each one of you who got up to speak said: "You are against the system! " [[Laughter at GERB.]] We won't support you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u68	How will you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u69	We will not support you, colleagues, and I will tell you why we will not support you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u70	Just don't insult us!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u71	Because while you're taking us back to the Thrace Highway in 2006, instead of thinking these things, you should've taken them from February, when the minister was here and asked him, and we told him to tell him what we were doing with this tol system... If you could extend the time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u72	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u73	Instead of the month of February so far, this minister should sit down and write down the laws that he needs to secure tol system, now, two days before the end of the session, import fellow MPs, because the Ministry probably has some other activities to look at in the morning on the BTV minister from Tarnovo, because it is very important, and what is being discussed here is not important at all that shows your attitude towards the tol system, colleagues. When colleague Boychev says that there should be a conversation about tariffs, a conversation about scope, does not mean that in the Law we should write the tariff, write the price, does not mean that we should record how much it will cost per kilometer of mileage, but when you walk and explain at the opening of the highways how you will collect a billion and two hundred, and the other chief says 800 million, and Stanislav Ivanov says 700 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u74	Depends on the traffic. It's a minimum of BGN 700.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u75	...I ask: how do you calculate them? Tell the Bulgarian citizens. The range of the system is known. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Well, someone knows that rate after you say those numbers. Someone knows the price per kilometer to calculate a billion and two hundred. Tell that to the Bulgarian citizens. And then the experts you're waiting for you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u76	Say you're against it and you won't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u77	Mr. Lazarov, leave the room calmly, without giving me a cue on the move. Thank you. [[Relations, excitement.]] When you have any numbers and numbers, tell them to discuss them. Can this law, Mr. Ivanov, you are a member of the Transport Commission, Vice-President, not to watch it there or at least one discussion not to? I'm leaving all the other arguments behind. That's your weakness. You show that you're concerned, and you're practically doing nothing. On 12 January the contract was concluded, the contract ended last year. Why didn't you write this law for a year and a half or the Ministry to bring it in? These are our criticisms. Otherwise you will have full support for realizing the system if you do it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u78	Let's take part in a public discussion with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u79	Stop waving at me with that hand, Mr. Ivanov! Come here and make a line. You can't stop shaking hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u80	I'm really asking you, Mr. Ivanov, a little calmer atmosphere in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u81	So, fellow Members, let us, at least from now on, hold the debate on the introduction of the system professionally, let society be at ease about what awaits it after the introduction of the system. I ask you: as of January 1st, my colleague from the DPS asked very well who would control the electronic wine and no one answered. There's no one who has to answer. Yeah, I got an electronic bill, but who's gonna check if I got it? [[Noise, GERB lines.]] Someone should come over and answer from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u83	Dear Mr. President, I personally welcome your attitude and your way to bring order to this House, but I would like to tell you that to the front row of the colleagues from GERB cannot be approached by conventional means of education [[crowd cheering, murmuring]] , including with a request. Or you should remove at least two people from the front row who participated all the time in Mr. Svilenski's speech in the second row, who continued to speak while leaving the room, and I do not know how to talk to Mr. Ivanov. After you asked him to remain silent and to treat the speaker with respect, he continued to speak out of place and to shake hands. If the debate goes on like this, the statutes have all the points written down. Punish me even though I'm convinced it doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u85	There was a statute in the barracks. There isn't one here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u86	Mr. Ivanov! Mr. Ivanov, I ask you very much even for the speech in the procedure! I'm really taking a note from the statement. Are there any lines to Mr. Svilensky's statement? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Bulgaria is at the crossroads of a fact that we all know about. At least three main European transport directions pass through Bulgaria, leading to more than 10 thousand Tires every day transiting through our country. The benefit of this passage is negative, if I may say so. These trucks are practically depreciating our road network, creating traffic risks, creating risks for pedestrians. There's been a lot of accidents, including truck flying home and all that. For all these negatives we pay ourselves, we actually subsidize these trucks through the low price of the wine and Bulgarian society pays for their opportunity to pass through our territory. In fact, this is the main issue that we are debating today. Despite the ridiculous questions that some colleagues have asked from this tribune, apparently unfamiliar with the Bill, I think it is clear to everyone that for cars, cars up to 3.5 tons, there will be no change in the system. We want heavy traffic to pay for what it destroys, and to enable our infrastructure to be built planically. That is the question we are discussing. The bill is at first reading. At first reading, this bill must be adopted or rejected in principle. I am amazed that much of this House rejects this bill in general. They say, yes, we are for the toll system, yes, but we will not support it because... Because we have accepted the policy of the insulted child, but the minister is gone, but someone is slowing down, someone is hiding some information. Basically, this is the only thing that we hear as a counter-producer of this principle question: do we want to collect the money from these transit vehicles, or do we not want to collect them? That is the principle issue and, I think, with your vote, you should answer it, fellow Members. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] You're willing to collect them, you have criticism of the government. Okay, make a no-confidence vote on this subject, for example, if you think the government is doing its job so badly in this direction. However, it is not a means to blaming the Law. I really don't understand why we have to blame a law that we all say is: yes, in principle it is right, there we have to go, but we won't support it, because there is no solution to what kind of problem you are or because the minister is not there or because something else is. Let's support him in principle. There are unresolved issues, there are topics to develop, I agree, but that's why there are two readings in the legislative process. Clearly, we all want more money for infrastructure. A few years ago, I made inquiries that showed how dramatic the lag of infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria was compared to southern Bulgaria, where EU funds were absorbed. These five-six billion, which are practically necessary for Northern Bulgaria, should be taken from the toll system within the next few years. There's no reason to delay the introduction for even a month. Why is this bill being tabled by fellow Members of the National Assembly, among whom I am? Because there's really no time. Let's hurry up and get this done. Maybe there's a guilty person, maybe there are objective circumstances, and I don't want to get into this argument at all, because he's petty. This thing can be solved, it can be discussed, there can be parliamentary questions on it. Let's follow the procedures that parliamentary practice has established. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, it makes sense to talk about some additional funding to the municipal roads in view of the additional load with such heavy traffic. We can hardly fix any amount, but this is a topic on which we can sit down and talk to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and seek similar assistance. If anything, at least there will be a really small financial resource in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which can be directed towards municipalities, and I am a lobbyist in this direction, I say it to the municipalities should be helped. The electronic bill. Well, just because of the electronic wine, for example, which is a great facility for all Bulgarian citizens, it is only because of it that you should support this bill, colleagues, even if for example things are not so clear about tol. And one more thing: the state will operate with the money. In the Committee on Regional Policy, Local Government and Public Works we discussed quite a bit, questions were asked. I'm sorry that this information is clearly not downgraded horizontally in the group. Here are asked questions which have been explained quite punctually by colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and colleagues from the Agency. I would debate quite a bit on the subject: should there be free roads parallel to those paid, because this means a huge truck-traffic to give him, though hypothetical opportunity to enter through our cities and villages and become a horror which then, here from the stands, we will ask ourselves who allowed it? Let's say that we can debate this at a point where we're already talking about the range of the toll system. As a finale, all of us from "United Patriarchs" will support the current bill. We think it is extremely important, we think that it can give a chance to catch up on behind infrastructure, which, unfortunately, in Bulgaria there is, and at last, that it can lead to some recovery of our geopolitical situation and bring benefits to the state, which will give impetus to the development not only of infrastructure but also of Macedonia [[crowd cheering, laughing]] But also economics. I apologize for the lapsus. [[Heckling]] Well, we're IMROs, so what do we do? Colleagues, I call on you to put the small matter behind us and to vote on the bill in general. Basically, do we want the one who destroys the Bulgarian roads to pay? This is the principle question we need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Members of the opposition, congratulations! Congratulations, because, in fact, you were able to say black about something that is so indisputable, so many years has been waiting for a bill that I cannot say is one of the most complex or that requires I do not know what debates, public discussions, provided that the Law provides a framework for the introduction of a fair system, and you do not dispute it, which is the most interesting. A few moments ago, other colleagues hinted at it, and I don't want to blame you, because it is very easy to say: you are lobbyists for all the companies that have so far been blaming all the carriers and all the transport companies have actually been blaming the process of building this mixed electronic system so far. I don't see what the problem is with supporting the Bill? If, on many other topics, we have differences, then here we should not be with your colleagues, whom we have spoken to, no one is questioning the system, the idea of this fair system. A moment ago in my exhibition I said, without sounding arrogant, but our system, life and health, will be the most modern one in Europe, because we have exchanged from all the pros and cons of all the countries that have so far had one or another system. There's not much to explain. I just said: 12 euros is worth passing a truck through our country. At the same distance, in other countries neighbouring us and in Europe it costs 70 €80 and up. Any delay with our vote means that we dotrate the carriers who pass through Bulgaria free of charge. Instead of these revenues going to the Agency, the question we want to answer is this: if we want to have good roads, there must be revenue. There's no alternative. There is no free because there were speeches from the point of view of alternative roads of the paid road infrastructure. Colleagues, can you go out of town now without a bill? You can't. Nothing's gonna change since January 1st. For people, it is very important for consumers to say, because this law, and Mr. Veselinov said it, even just because of this, we all need to support this bill in consensus. From January 1st, no one will stick their wine stickers on the car, nor will they pay an additional favor for having an electronic wine bottle. He's just gonna pay for his wine with the relevant dealers and electronically, maybe via the phone, and there's no need to have any additional document in him that's issued to him, stick to him, pick him up on his bags, because the system will account for whether he paid or not. Even when the cataclysers stop you, in fact, the teams that API will rather form when they stop you, there is no need for you to prove that you bought or did not buy a vintage. They'll know that information. A few moments ago, there were some ridiculous themes about the minister not being here. I apologize, however, it is very disrespectful of us to question a bill tabled by MPs, and it is very disrespectful of two parliamentary groups that are in the ruling majority. Of course we work together with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with the Agency and this is the right approach. There's a hurry here. Because you're accusing someone of sleeping or being lazy... Thank you for the compliment, Mrs. Yankova, that we cover the lazy administration, but the truth is that January 2015 has actually chosen the company to carry out this order, with thousands of barriers and obstacles to get here. It is no accident, in fact, that the idea of the rapid adoption of this bill is precisely from 1 January 2019 that we already have, on the one hand, a bill adopted to introduce this new electronic charging system, and to go through all public procedures and discussions about next year's tariffs. It was said about the municipalities. I have already commented on yes, municipalities must be refinanced. We have to look for alternative options. But when a person pays a fee for a particular service, it only goes for the service he uses. Tomorrow, we can decide that revenues, for example, from the toll system, can be given to another sector that is underfunded to the Ministry of Interior, pensions, social policies, because the principle is exactly the same, you take it from one place where you pay for a certain service, and you give it to another place. Yes, municipalities must be financed and we can solve this as MPs. There are mechanisms, I say again, as the Ministry of Finance will stop milking the Agency. This means that a resource can be released to go to municipalities. I think we can make that decision here together. It was said about the companies that will collect and be literally intermediaries between the Agency and the companies. Colleagues, there are companies that are international and are registered in the European electronic charging system. I will tell you that, for example, one SHEL holds 15% of the market in Europe. These are large companies, companies that have good financial balances, defined on very strict, specific requirements that operate, and benefit both the agencies that collect the revenue, as the agencies collect the revenue, and the companies that are carriers. I'll give you an example. If, for example, you have a thousand trucks, carriers, they hire a company that collects revenue. Of course, it takes part of the revenue, but supplies them with such onboard devices, calculates and gives data from where these trucks went, not only through Bulgaria, across Europe and accordingly collects the fee for this service, and, notice, financial responsibility are those companies that actually collect them and not someone else. They're bound to take that risk. In fact, what is written very clearly in the Law will be an open character. The fan's open. Any national or international such collector company, a provider of such declared data, may participate as long as it meets the conditions laid down by the Agency, has customers and nothing more. So the market is absolutely liberalized and we have borrowed from the best practices in other developed countries. Colleagues, in order not to take more of your attention, I would like you to spend two more minutes on what the system is, because there is little talking about the substance of the system, and rather we were looking for the negative from the point of view that we are simply opposition, not because we are against something or because something is unclear or something that between first and second votes can be corrected. Naturally, there are texts which are also subject to adjustments between first and second votes. My colleagues and I have even prepared a few paragraphs that would change. One of the great reasons why colleagues from DPS and BSP would not support the Bill is that there was no clarity. To make it clear, I'll say this: we are introducing an electronic charging system of mixed type. For cars, because you are also talking about financial parameters, nothing will change, and this is the assurance that I can assure on behalf of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Agency, together with the consultants working on the project that the formation of the fee for passenger cars will not change for the next year and will enter into force from 1 January 2019, as for those who have purchased an blame sticker at the moment, for example, you have purchased it in September, will apply until September 2019. Therefore they will not make any registration. Although the Bill is written like this, we will change it and will not actually need to, as it will be an unnecessary formality for all users. Therefore, for passenger cars there will be no change and I do not see anything unclear by what I just said. The problem is in large, heavy goods vehicles that have a maximum permissible mass above 3,5 tonnes. These are the ones that destroy. Repeat, 240 million. lv. come to the Agency from wine stickers, 90 million come from heavy goods vehicles. You understand how unfair the current model is. What will be introduced from the middle of next year, life and health, all these heavy goods vehicles will be covered by the toll system. They will pay not on a time basis, but on a distance travelled, they will pay for the category of the vehicle, they will pay for certain sections. Once again, if the section is not in good condition anywhere, they will not even be charged and will meet specific environmental requirements if they want to benefit from preferences that will be given to them in the future price model. Here we really need to look for the highest standards, because ecology is not second place. It has to be close by and we have to collect just a few incomes. It is important for the Agency, for the state, for all of us, because each of us has our own electoral area, let us say and explain to people that this system is indeed a new, modern way of charging, which is entirely fair, which is on the principle that destroys, which more dirt, which uses more infrastructure, pays more. And we can't lie to people that if we want to have good roads, we have to look for alternatives and options for a significant increase in revenue. The hole in what we want as an expectation as citizens between what the Agency collects and our recipes for what it should be is huge. We are talking about hundreds of millions a year that the Agency has nowhere to take them, nor can the state budget provide them. Any delay is to the detriment of the state. [[General applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, I'm graduating. I appeal to all parliamentary groups to be really sensible, to forget your political bias. There is no politics here, there is something valuable for the Bulgarian taxpayer, for the state. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here's a line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Nenkov, it's a good thing your applause told you to stop because you repeated the same thing several times. The fact is, I repeat, the fact is that the system is necessary. We don't mind. We refrain because it did not become clear what the effect on the Bulgarian municipalities is, how they will benefit from the revenues that will come to the Road Agency, whether these funds that go to the Road Agency will have an even distribution and they will benefit from these revenues in the state treasury. Secondly, when we talk about alternative roads... [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] This is not about light-duty vehicles, we are talking about heavy-duty vehicles, does it offer the system that you are currently introducing, alternative roads, without requiring the Bulgarian carriers, and not only carriers, those who have heavy-duty vehicles, to use only the toll system, i.e. the roads with the toll system? So simple and clear! You come out and you say, "Let me explain to you now what the system is like and we hear it applies to those who are in need. Yeah, for the heavy goods! Where are the technical parameters of the toll system? Introduce them! Imagine that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, since the Minister is not here, I would like to ask you, and you are also the ideologist of this bill. We understand that the initial investment is about 150 million. lv. It will be paid in the next three years at 50 million. My question to you is this: how much will it cost per year or how much will I spend on the roads to support this system? If you don't know the exact amount per year, at least tell me how much the percentage of the revenue is planned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u94	Thank you. Here's a third line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Nenkov, there was no problem after the choice of contractor of the company for tol system the package of documents to go and be ready. I am glad that my colleague Kirilov also said that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has written this document, you are now legitimizing it, but I would like to ask you a few questions. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of § 17 it is stated that a service unit is being established. How much will be the maintenance of tol management and how much will the numerical composition be? Because in the Regional Commission we listened to a member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency.... so far we have given 20 million more for the preparation of the Tol system. You shared about 14% of the revenues of the Tol system will go to the Road Infrastructure Agency, but you gave a stretching concept in the Budget Commission. From 800 million to a billion and two hundred billion and four hundred million, perhaps after the introduction of the already heavy goods?! How many will these employees be and how much will it cost? You know what? You're making a change in two laws. And to ask you more. In the preliminary assessment you gave to the Bill, then you signed and signed... The two bills will be changed today for services and public procurement. Do you also know in front of the National Assembly, as importers, when will be adopted and amended the Regulation on border checkpoints, the Rules of Procedure of the Customs Agency, the Ordinance on Supplement for the Release of Persons over 50... and all the regulations that arise? Why am I asking? Because what has been the problem since January, since the introduction of the system so far, has this package of documents been going on? What's the problem? When we say you're legitimizing the brave, lazy administration, admit it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ibryamov, unfortunately, I will have to repeat this to you again, but not because I want to repeat the same thing, but because you obviously don't understand what this is about and you haven't read the Law. What did you not understand from the fact that money from a fee for the use of Republican road infrastructure cannot go to municipalities and this will not affect the municipalities? Don't you get that? I'm saying this one last time. For the other lines of Mrs. Dora Yankova and her colleague before her, about expenditures is really a serious topic, there is no dispute. What is currently calculated for employees who will have to be hired is in the order you remember then Mr. Doncho Atanasov was in the Commission The ambition of the Agency is currently to build its own unit of mobile groups, which are precisely on its maintenance. They've already begun to be equipped. The control mechanism therefore, when they find that they do not have an electronic measure to stop them, the maintenance rate is about 14, and it can reach more, which will be set aside by the toll system. That's 140 million, assuming it's an average of one billion. Regarding the Agency's revenue, I say again: what the World Bank has predicted is based on some kind of traffic, which at the beginning of the first one or two years is very likely to rise in the years. It can very hardly be done in the Law, here to determine exactly how much it will collect the Road Infrastructure Agency. It depends very much on what price model the Council of Ministers has adopted so that you can increase significantly the money that is for transport companies and not make them run away and surround Bulgaria as a transit country. This is very delicate and important. Colleagues, this is not the work of the National Assembly, it is the work of people who have respect, understand, have experience and can make this model. I believe all efforts are directed there. As for the regulations, Mrs. Dora Yankova. I do not mind between the first and second votes, as eventually, if we accept it, we also set deadlines. There's nothing wrong with that. I assure you that the whole effort and priority of the government is that this system will be in force from 1 January for cars and from 16 August next year for others and will benefit citizens. I'm sure of it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any MPs willing to speak? I don't see any requests. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote at first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018. They voted 183 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 69. The bill was passed at first reading. Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF EXEMPTION SERVICES IN THE SUPPORT OF THE PRODUCTION OF PLANS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE REGULAR BASIS AND OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. Here you are, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest under art. 49, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly tolerance in the hall of Nikolay Kanchev "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u100	Thank you. We are voting for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. They voted 123 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Are you going to introduce us to the Commission report, Mr. Tsvetkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u101	I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. At a meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Environment and Water Commission examined a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Environment and Waters Mr. Neno Dimov, the Director of the Directorate for Environment and Waters, Mrs. Iliana Todorova at the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mrs. Sylvia Rangelova, the Director of the Directorate of Water Management and Waters at the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as a representative from the Directorate for Coordination on European Union Affairs at the Council of Ministers and representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in the Investment Design and Movement in the Protection of Citizens and the State. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Neno Dimov. He pointed out that the main objective of the Agreement was to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Water for the development of the second Flood Risk Management Plans (PSURs) and the third River Basin Management Plans (PSURs). The flood risk management plans are intended to address all aspects of flood risk management when updating the preliminary risk assessment, drawing up threat maps and flood risk, developing methodologies and carrying out studies, defining a programme of specific measures or a combination of measures to reduce adverse effects aimed at prevention, protection and preparedness for adequate population response to floods, taking into account the impact of climate change. River basin management plans are intended to address problems to achieve compliance with applicable European Union legislation on water, to develop methodologies, to carry out surveys, to characterize water basin management areas, to assess pressure, impact, risk and status of water bodies and others. Mr. Dimov pointed out that with the implementation of the activities provided for in the Agreement and the adoption of Plans for river basin management and Plans for flood management by the Council of Ministers, the indicators of the Operational Programme will be achieved and implemented by the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 The Minister added that the Agreement was concluded in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to support the implementation of the requirements of European and national water legislation. The consultation services provided shall be financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020 and, in particular, under the Operational Programme of the Environment 2014-2020. The total value of the Agreement on the two components is 34,5 million. lv. Following a voting procedure, the Committee on Environment and Waters, with 10 votes in favour, with no objection, and 6 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the Agreement on the provision of support services to support the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 19 July 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Kanchev "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water." The Agreement providing support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Agreement) was concluded on the basis of art. 85, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. The purpose of the Agreement is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Water for the Development of the Second Flood Risk Management Plans (PSUR) and the Third Plans for River Basin Management (PSUR). The agreement provides for the following activities to be carried out by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to achieve the above objectives: 1. Development of Flood Risk Management Plans - second cycle 2022 - 2027 Activity 1.1: Implementation of studies, evaluations and development of the stages of the Project Plans for Flood Risk Management for the period 2022 - 2027 Activity 1.2: Organisation of phased public consultations and cross-border coordination with neighbouring countries. Activity 1.3: Proposal for Flood Risk Management Plans 2022 for each of the four basin water management areas. 2. Development of river basin management plans Activity 1.1: Implementation of studies, evaluations and development of the stages of the Project Plans for river basin management for the period 2022 - 2027 Activity 1.2: Organisation of phased public consultations and cross-border coordination with neighbouring countries. Activity 1.3: Proposal for river basin management plans for the period 2022 for each of the four water basin management areas. The total value of the Agreement on the two components is 34,5 million. lv. The circumstances contained in the Agreement require its ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 10 votes for the draft, 5 votes against the draft and 1 vote abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of Plans for River Basin Management and Plans for Flood Management for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. There is also a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. At its meeting on 11 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov Deputy Minister; Mrs. Iliana Todorova Director of the Water Management Directorate. The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov, who pointed out that the purpose of the Agreement is to provide advisory services to the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the development of the Flood Risk Management Plans - second cycle 2022 - 2027 and to develop river basin management plans - third cycle 2022 - 2027. Mr. Zhivkov noted that regarding the Flood Risk Management Plans, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will assist the Ministry of Environment and Water to address all aspects of flood risk management when updating the preliminary risk assessment, as well as to draw up threat maps and flood risk maps. The development of a programme of measures to reduce adverse effects, prevention, protection and preparedness for adequate response of the population to floods is proposed, taking into account the impact of climate change. The river basin management plans are expected to comply with the applicable European Union water legislation by developing methodologies and carrying out surveys. A characterization of water basin management areas as well as an assessment of pressure, impact, risk and condition of water bodies shall be introduced, setting objectives and measures to achieve and maintain good water body condition within the relevant water basin management areas. In response to a question raised by the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov Deputy Minister Zhivkov noted that the funding is under Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020." Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, with no objection, and 6 votes for the Abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of Plans for River Basin Management and Plans for the Management of Floods for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I am opening the debates on the draft in question. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our comment is not about the work of the World Bank, which provides multilateral and in most cases effective and useful services to the member states of the World Bank. It's about the concrete bill. Dear colleagues, we are talking about things that are frightening! First, a consulting contract for the total amount of 34 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. About what?! For giving advice to the Bulgarian regional governors of settlements how to solve the issue with the Bulgarian rivers. Secondly, the World Bank is impressed that the short name of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development wants, honourable Members, 50% of the amount or 17 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. in practice to be paid immediately, and the services to last three and a half years. Have you ever heard of such a consulting contract for three and a half years to be paid immediately 50 percent of the amount?! But the Bulgarian state offers us to agree to such a distribution! Thirdly, honourable Members, I would like to thank the Ministry of Environment and Water. At my request, they have provided me with a list of consultancy projects in this and approximate area which the World Bank has concluded with and outside EU countries. [[shows]] . Colleagues, out of 190 projects that the Ministry of Environment presented to me, there is not a single project in which the country which consults and implements the project is 100% to finance the services! If we vote now, the Republic of Bulgaria will for the first time be in the history of the World Bank's consulting contracts. Here are the projects presented by our Ministry of Environment [[shows]] . Russia, Romania, Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Poland In project 191 Bulgaria will appear with zero participation of the World Bank and a hundred percent payment from the Bulgarian budget. In a word, honourable Members, if you press the green button now, our country is the poorest country in the European Union, what happens? supplier and finance the World Bank. Praise such projects! Those who signed this project did not protect the Bulgarian interest. Yes, if we need consultations, let them comply with the World Bank's practice with other member states, because, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the servantship of our government in this case costs very dearly to the Bulgarian people. So we have a solution and will vote against this way of financing and commitment of the Republic of Bulgaria to support global credit institutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u108	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, from your exhibition I could not understand either what you said was not clear enough, but I ask you very much to explain once again: Is the World Bank giving us money, which is normal for a banking case, or are we giving the World Bank some money, which is some novelty in the relationship of a state with a bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Gechev, in the examples that you have just shown here, it is about loans. Isn't that right? And the Bulgarian state does not take any lev loan. Isn't that right, Mr. Gechev? So don't let this room down with false allegations. Currently, the Bulgarian state provides funds that are necessary but does not take a loan. I think it was your main thesis that the Bulgarian state is committing itself. No, he doesn't have to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u113	Thank you. Colleagues, thank you for your questions. First, regarding the World Bank. Yeah, so it turns out that we're financing the World Bank and supporting its offices. [[Laughter, partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] because the World Bank, when it found such agreeable countries as Bulgaria with 34 million. Five hundred thousand... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Listen to me, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u114	Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u115	That means, dear friends, that now that you vote with the green button, every month for the next three and a half years, 1 million. lv. They're going for counseling. And since you asked, do you know where that money will go? They will hire several Bulgarians who will do the project as they are on the other projects. The main part of the money will also go to support the offices in other countries and peoples at the expense of the Bulgarian people. I'll give you a positive example with the World Bank. The World Bank gave 5 million free. US dollars for Bulgaria to develop the Single Stock Market in 1996. The World Bank and the French Government gave one 5 million. The other five million dollars. FRS for consulting services for the creation of the single Bulgarian stock exchange. This is how member states are helped, not to drive the poorest country of the European Union... They pick up the phone from Washington and here our ministers jump and sign immediately. Have these ministers looked at the 190 treaty other countries and nations how they signed them? And, yes, your question I have nowhere said that these are not loans, as the World Bank is not Santa Claus' organization to distribute money that is not credit lines [[(Laughter) Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Because the aid she gave Bulgaria back then is included in the next projects of the bank and it is perfectly normal, but it is not normal for 190 contracts to be signed in one way and here our government to finance foreign offices by paying 50% in advance. Praise those defending the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria! That is why we will not vote. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to speak to you about the content of the Draft, which is offered to the attention of the MPs from the Council of Ministers, and the purpose of the Agreement signed between the Bulgarian Government and the Ministry of Environment and Water, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I would like to start with the following: I hope that no one doubts the importance and importance of the strategic documents that will be developed. These are the third cycle River basin management plans and the second cycle Flood risk management plans, because through these documents, our country not only fulfils the requirements and complies with European and national legislation, and these documents are essential for achieving the objectives laid down in the legislation relating to water management and protection in qualitative and quantitative terms and the conservation of the strategic resource. The river basin management plans achieve a balanced and equal use and conservation of water within a river basin from springs to its end, taking into account the needs and obligations of water users throughout the current. This equality achieves the provision of water in sufficient quantity and of an appropriate quality for risk management for the people of the region. As regards the Flood Risk Management Plans, Bulgaria prepared the first plans, according to European and national legislation and adopted them at the end of 2016, adopted as a precondition under the Operational Programme "Environment" by the European Commission in January 2017. The flood risk management plans aim at achieving the protection of the lives of people, infrastructure and agricultural land within river basins, providing protection against the harmful effects of water. Undoubtedly, the main and most important objective is to ensure prevention, protection and reduction of the consequences of the harmful effects of water. The agreement that is signed is part of the Memorandum signed by Bulgaria and the international financial institutions, which enables the implementation of the Operational Programmes to benefit from the expertise of international financial institutions. In this sense, the funds we are talking about are provided through the Operational Programme "Environment." The Operational Programme is the second Operational Programme. I note that in the first Operational Programme 2007-2013, funds of 56 million were put at stake. lv. For the preparation of these important strategic documents.. 36 million lv. for the development of the management plans for the four river basins in Bulgaria, and respectively 20 million. lv. for the development of the Flood Risk Management Plans. Indeed, this is an extremely important task, a long-term task, and it is not in vain that the time limit for the implementation of this contract is 51 months, the documents themselves must be implemented and prepared in a long period of time. The main objective of the Agreement is not to give advice to the mayors and governors, the main objective of the Agreement is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Water, to the portfolio directorate of the water management at the Ministry, to the four pool departments, to the pool councils, which include all stakeholders, including municipalities and district governments, and to conduct cross-border consultation in the adoption of these documents. I will read you only part of the tasks that are included in the World Bank's commitments through the award of this contract. For river basin management plans. Achieve compliance with applicable European Union legislation through the development of methodologies; carry out studies; characterisation of water basin management areas; assessment of pressure, impact and risk, and the state of water bodies; identification of objectives and measures to achieve and/or maintain a good state of water bodies within the relevant basin management areas; for flood risk management plans; consideration of all aspects of flood risk management when updating the preliminary risk assessment; drawing up threat maps and flood risk; development of methodologies and carrying out research; definition of a programme of specific measures or a combination of measures to reduce adverse effects aimed at prevention, protection and preparedness for adequate population response to floods, taking into account the impact of climate change. These are serious tasks. In this sense, I hope that no one is questioning the World Bank's expertise, which has proven to provide quality services through its expert composition, which includes experts with European and international experience. In addition, the development of these documents, as I said, is not only provided by means of the Operational Programme, it is also related to achieving the indicators on two of the priority axes of the Operational Programme............................................................................................................................................... Furthermore, as I mentioned, it is part of the preconditions under the Partnership Agreement between Bulgaria and the European Commission. In this sense, I think that this bill must undoubtedly be supported, given the opportunity to use the funds provided under the Operational Programme in order to ensure the participation of the World Bank experts to assist in the development of these documents with all the resulting commitments, field work, analyses, studies, methodologies over a four-year period, to ensure that we have the assurance that the next cycle of documents, river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the period 2022 will be of the necessary quality in line with legislation and will fulfil their objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Ladies and gentlemen, there are further speeches that have been made, so the debate with lines and other speeches will continue after the break. The sitting will continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u119	Colleagues, we're starting work. A line to Mrs. Vassileva by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, first of all, I would like to thank you for the extremely expert speech you made from the stands just now. But I would like to make some clarification regarding the finale of your speech, where you asked whether colleagues on the left doubt the World Bank's expertise. I think they have no doubt, Mrs. Vassileva. Why? Because the following funds were taken at the time of Mr. Stanishev's office: 150 million first Project for Institutional Reform in the Social Sector "Plamen Oresharski" 2009; second project Institutional Reform in the Social Sector "150 million 2008"; 2009, also in the social sector, 208 million were taken. 208 million were taken, however, on May 15th, several days before Stanishev's cabinet left power; and 2008 was taken 60 million. So, Mrs. Vasileva, in my opinion, they do not doubt the World Bank's expertise, but they are simply trying to sabotage the actions that we, as a government and as a parliament, are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line? I won't. Mrs. Vassileva, douche bag? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, thank you for recalling these facts. I am convinced that my fellow Members on the left are familiar with these historical facts and perhaps that is why they have not been mentioned so far in the debate. What I would like to stress very strongly is that it is about funds that are provided through the Operational Programme. These are funds that are set out in the programming phase of the Operational Programme "Environment". This programming, you know, started quite a long time ago, including the government "Oresharski" participated in the process of adopting the Operational Programme. The other thing I would like to stress is that the funds are committed and the commitments entrusted to the World Bank, the tasks, are linked to the implementation of the indicators under the Operational Programme, two priority axes, depend on the implementation of these commitments. Last but not least, I would like to stress once again that we are talking about strategic documents, which are a precondition for the implementation of the Operational Programme Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Any other speeches? Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To our attention is presented a bill, which is ratification, in most cases this does not arouse such interest in the MPs. However, today this bill is of interest because it is the ratification of an Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development worth 34,5 million, as my colleagues before me said, which our country has to pay. This amount is given, as you have just heard from Mrs. Vasileva, to advise the Bank on the preparation of two plans to prevent floods and to solve the flood issue in Bulgaria. Draft documents shall be drawn up under this Agreement. Mrs. Vasileva read the reasons for most of them, we heard the Bank's obligations, it includes preparing these documents. But she also said that signing this memorandum enables our country to use such advisory services. Yes, it is necessary to draw up these plans and they are required under the Operational Programme, but who will consult us? It's a matter of choice now. All the necessary information to draw up the plans is in Bulgaria. In our country we have experts, we also have knowledge of European law, it is not necessary for the Bank to consult us on European law or on the information that is needed in order to draw up the plans. If this money is given to Bulgarian experts who apply European law with the technical information that is in Bulgaria, there is a question for me whether they can draw up these plans? In the end, I'll tell you something as a lawyer that made an impression on me. In several places, the Agreement refers to an annex which is an integral part of the Agreement. Look at your materials, everyone, there is no such thing. Why wouldn't he? I don't know. I take this opportunity to say that again, the reference to facts from 11 years ago cannot justify specific decisions at all. And doing such a thing, referring to circumstances that were valid 11 years ago, shows only one weakness of arguments at the moment, today, after 11 years. We won't support it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. A line, Mrs. Vassileva?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milkov, since you refer to my speech, I would like to make the following line. You mentioned that it was about two plans. It may be nice to consult with your colleagues who are experts in the field and participate in the Committee on Environment and Water. They would explain to you more detail what documents we are talking about and yet clarify that it is not about two plans, but about eight strategic documents. These are: river basin management plans, for each of the basin areas, as well as flood risk management plans that are being developed in accordance with the Water Framework Directive and the Flood Risk Directive. Not just that. You refer to the forensics that will be used. I think again the World Bank has proved that it uses not only international but also Bulgarian experts. He also works closely with the scientific community of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In this sense, I think that we should not question the fact that experts with proven professional experience will be used. As far as historical data are concerned, you can check for this yourself in the first cycle of these documents.. The river basin management plans, what funds are allocated to fulfill this commitment, and the indicative funds laid down in the first operational programme, which exceed by nearly 20 million the contracts quoted under this Memorandum, you yourself said, a Memorandum that enables our country to use the expertise of international financial institutions. These are funds from the Operational Programme, not from the national budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Another line? Second line, I can't see. Mr. Milkov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u128	I'm using the right to dodge, Mrs. Vassileva, and in order for there to be no confusion, I'm starting from the easiest. The Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of: "River Basin Management Plans and "Flood Risk Management Plans'. That's what you said. [[Reply of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva.]] That the plans contain other elements given as dashes in the motives, you clarified it. I'm going through the arguments one by one, it won't take long. With regard to money, whether they were under a European programme from the European funds, yes, there are billions of them and it is nice to stay in Bulgaria. I am going to the next one, I refer to your next argument that they will use Bulgarian experts. I will feel good if the Ministry uses Bulgarian experts and although not an expert in the environment, my expertise, to which I refer, allows me to know that it is normal for the Bulgarian Ministry to use Bulgarian experts with the money it has received from the European Structural Funds to reorganise its entire life, including in the area in which you and other Members of the National Assembly are experts. So by referencing to my knowledge, they're enough, and to tell you again, you didn't answer my line, there's no annex in the documents. Look at him carefully! I expected you to tell me there is, but there isn't! So I appeal to my fellow Members, please complete the few pages to see if there is an annex that is mentioned in several places in the Agreement and it says that it is an integral part of it. That was the most important thing in what I told you. It's relevant to my knowledge that I didn't get an answer to. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u129	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Konstantinov, I'm going to ask you to wait with the speech because Mr. Mareshki has the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As Vice-President of the National Assembly, but most of all as a citizen, I cannot ignore what is happening today in this building. A deputy is trying to beat up another MP who had previously beaten him. [[Radio.]] Both of them are part of the small coalition partner currently managing our country. I suppose we will take steps to ensure that the Ethics Committee speaks to the actions of Mr. Kasabov and Mr. Volen Siderov. [[Audience in OP.]] Is this the place, colleagues, for someone to kill their complexes and show whether or not they're masculine? I'll tell you what it's like to be a man! ▪ To look the people in the eye without worrying. To have the courage and courage to face the system, to help your fellow citizens live better. To have the valor to keep your promises, but not to the backstage, but to the people. That's male politics. Outside of it, there may be other rules. I say this because although everyone is somehow trying to cover up the truth, the Euro-Coalition, which participates in one of the small coalition partners, namely IMRO, in the European Parliament, one of the two MEPs voted for the Istanbul Convention [[beeping in O.R.]] , in favour of genderism, and the other one, the even bigger male, has abstained. But not one voice against! [[Shouting from OP.]] The coalition of IMRO, the European Coalition of IMRO has two MEPs [[the expression of the MP is accompanied by shouting from the OP]] One voted for the European Convention in favour of gender-ideology and the other abstained. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, IMRO colleagues, the truth hurts! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The truth hurts, but these are the facts! [[Shouting from OP.]] Two of the small coalition partners, the males in the small coalition, are doing themselves physically! But given the above I told you about the gender tendencies of the third coalition partner... [[Loud noise and shouting from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u131	Mr. Mareshki, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u132	...we...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u133	Treat the MPs with respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u134	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u135	Let the man speak! Let him talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u136	Given that the third coalition partner has supported the Istanbul Convention in the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u137	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u138	...we wonder what they can serve us in the future! Once again, while the two of them are doing themselves physically, what can the third coalition partner serve us in the small coalition?! When I heard that Volen Siderov was injured, I immediately came to his aid. [[(Strong noise, shouting from the OP, loud applause from BSP for ……]] Dear colleagues, I would do it for any Bulgarian citizen, whether he is a member of parliament or from which parliamentary group he is represented. [[(Lowered applause, shouting from OP:.. Brah-vo, brah-vo, brah-vo!............................................................................................................]] Because I am convinced that violence, in any form, is not the right way to communicate, even more for men with claims to rule Bulgaria! [[Shouting from OP.]] I know that this is not the first time, but also with your behaviour you are showing it, not for the first time in the building of the National Assembly such unpleasant events are happening. I would like to say that the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of Volja is categorically distinguished from this type of behavior of Bulgarian MPs, including this type of call. You have noticed that no Member of the National Assembly from Volja has allowed himself to shout from the place! [[(Reply from GERB:]] It's a question of upbringing, it's a question of the first seven years, especially for IMRO MPs to tell them. [[(Shouts from O.P.: ……]] What happened was just another piece of evidence... Keep it up, keep it up! What has happened is another proof that Volja is the different party in the 44th Parliament and with its presence shows a new style and morality in politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u139	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u140	The scandalous relations in the OP only confirm the position of Voljja. That election coalitions, collected without principles and common ideas, should be banned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u141	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u142	And we will bring it in the fall as a bill. Everyone to come out with the program, being so good and famous, to come out with the program, to defend it in front of the Bulgarian people and if he gets the right to sit at the banks, then he should have the right to speak. Instead of asking for an apology to one another from the representatives of the small coalition partner, we from Volja.......... we insist that all together apologize to the Bulgarian people that they are not the politicians for whom they pretend that they do not protect these election promises with which they are sent to the National Assembly. Thank you and I really hope that we will show a new morale in politics in the fall, a new behaviour in parliament, to be true MPs of the people who sent us here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u143	Ask for a resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u144	And he didn't send us to watch...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u145	Ask for a resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u146	...fights to protect Private Kiro, Private Tseko or Private Dancho. Because we also have Private Dancho of the other coalition partner, not IMRO. Thank you, colleagues! [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is as follows. Because we see that Mr. Mareshki has enough power to lead the meetings of parliament, and the Presidential body is most regularly neglecting it, we of the United Patriarchs are people tolerant and democratic, we want to understand why Mr. Mareshki is deprived of the opportunity to hold a parliament meeting? Why is he allowed only on his birthday and yesterday? [[(Laughter, excitement in OP. (Applause)]] We want as patriots and patriots, tolerant people. [[Laughter]] to give him the opportunity to hold Parliament meetings. We think he knows the Rules well enough to be trusted! You can't just let him on his birthday! This is undemocratic! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u149	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'll pass on your request to Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The water theme is as hot as the one we've been discussing so far. Thank you for the opportunity to take an attitude. I would like to bring in some clarification and details, because they are important in relation to what colleague Stanislav Ivanov was trying to read from a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u151	From the tablet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u152	Because I was directly involved in these trials. It is not the job of today's meeting to discuss and review the Memorandum between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Bulgarian State, only it is a place where we can say a few important things. The Water Framework Directive is a key one to which the entire Water Sector must be subject. And river basin management plans and flood rivers management plans are the instruments implementing the Framework Directive. Moreover, the famous Water Strategy is a small sectoral strategy for the Framework Directive, which is a consequence of all of this. I will never forget 2014 at one of my other meetings in Brussels when the responsible directorate said: "A, Bulgaria is here! Colleagues from Bulgaria, you are a model for the worst and worst plans for river basin management within the European Union! Please make an effort with the second ones! " - Now we are preparing a third one. No one, again, calls into question the amount of funds, as these are indeed eight basic researches and strategic documents, which are like an action plan from this sector. No one is questioning the help the International Bank can give. It's about something else. Personally, I would feel extremely more secure and more comfortable if the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development provided this assistance. Because, fellow Members, the Water Framework Directive, resulting from which are river basin management plans, is a European document. I am not very familiar with the International Bank's expertise on the Framework Directive and its implementation. But we assume that they have that capacity. Secondly, keep in mind that the mechanism under which it is operated is as follows. Colleague Milkov said: I want Bulgarian experts to work. Colleague Milkov will work and will work Bulgarian experts from now on. Because at the moment when the so-called master plans saw this, in the water management strategy, in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Irrigation Strategy. A mass raid begins in which the methodology, methodology, principles are given by the European Bank or by the World Bank, but begins a mass raid in search of Bulgarian experts. That's not bad, of course, that's good. But what are the two problems? Firstly, preliminating 50% as a condition for me is extremely strange to be present in this document for preparing and organizing teams. Secondly, note that when there is an open tender procedure, the value of the award in the general case by reference to the agency that controls this issue, the price of the service falls between 20% and 40%. Now this indicative money will be provided to the experts from the Bank. That is, the so-called safes, the so-called savings, the so-called result of a transparent procedure will be missing. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the deadlines in which this is being done and the way of an organisation are of particular importance. Therefore, when we say that we will abstain, honourable Members, we have nothing against the jurisdiction of the International Bank, nothing against the competence of the Ministry, but the way of organization, of data collection, of holding, of a final document, unfortunately, in our opinion, is being corrupted in the years. That is why we will monitor this process and vote abstentionally.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Agreement on the provision of support services to support the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 141 MPs: for 101, against 14, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Vasileva, procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall also be reviewed on a second vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of Plans for Management of River basins and Plans for Management of Flood Risk for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote on the proposed bill. They voted 135 MPs: for 93, against 16, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u156	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services to support the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. No 802-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. LAW on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratified the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u157	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote four texts: the first text They voted 129 MPs: 96, against 23, abstention 10. The proposals are accepted. We continue with the next item of the Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRESENT ACTIONS TO ACCOMPLISH A COMP/B1/AT.39849 "BEH GAS' AGREEMENT. The representatives of the National Assembly are Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev, to present the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a first procedural proposal: on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our rules to allow in the Chamber Deputy Minister Zhecho Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 122 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Stankov. Please continue, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u160	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to take action to reach an agreement in case of MLR/V1/AT.39849 "BEH Gas," No 854-02-41, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov, Alexander Rumenov Nenkov on 16 July 2018. At its regular meeting held on 19 July 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the draft decision referred to above. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Mr. Krasimir Parvanov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Rositsa Nedyyakova Head of the Political Office; from,BEH On behalf of the importers The draft decision was presented by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, who gave a brief retrospect of the measures taken by Bulgaria in relation to the case initiated by the European Commission against the Bulgarian Energy Holding. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, expressed in possible abuse of the dominant position of gas markets in Bulgaria. On 9 November 2017, the Minister of Energy informed the Energy Committee of the National Assembly that the European Commission had rejected the proposals for commitments made by the Bulgarian side under Article 8. 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 and intends to close the case by way of a ban decision in accordance with art. 7 of the Regulation by imposing a financial penalty. The European Commission has proposed an opportunity for a co-operation in the issuing of the ban decision with three elements: recognition of the infringement, provision of procedural facilities and implementation of a structural measure which would lead to a certain reduction of the financial penalty. On 24 November 2017, following an assessment of the options proposed by the European Commission at that time to close the case with a ban decision, the National Assembly adopted a decision to support the conclusion of the case without cooperation, as the shortcomings of cooperation would exceed its potential benefits. On 8 July 2018 and 12 July 2018, the Minister of Energy and the BEH Group informed the National Assembly's Energy Committee on the development of the case, the procedural actions taken and the existence of newly disclosed circumstances which may have exonerating or at least significantly mitigating the responsibility of the BEH Group. In the meantime, on 24 May 2018, the European Commission announced that it had reached an agreement on the case with The subject of this case is the investigation of a possible abuse of a dominant position by Gazprom on markets in Central and Eastern Europe, among which Bulgaria. The case is closed in the order of art. 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 without imposing a financial penalty. The development in this case is relevant to the BEH Gas case because of the legal qualification of the alleged infringements and overlap of the market participants involved in both cases, whose behaviour has been analysed by the European Commission. The National Representative Delyan Dobrev explained that the proposed draft decision does not cancel the decision of the National Assembly of 24 November 2017 but complements it in the light of the new circumstances of the case. It is necessary to give a mandate to the Minister of Energy to take further action to close the case by reaching an agreement under art. 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003. In the course of the discussion, Minister Temenuzhka Petkova took over, who said that this topic is on the agenda of 2013 and the executive power in the face of the Ministry of Energy will make a final attempt to initiate talks with the European Commission on the legal possibility to restart the negotiations on the BEH Gas case. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 17 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to take action to reach an agreement in case of MLR/V1/AT.39849 "BEH Gaz," 854-02-41, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov and Alexander Rumenov Nenkov on 16 July 2018. Accordingly, the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u161	Would you like to introduce him?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u162	Project! DECISION on taking action to reach an agreement in case COMP/B1/AT.39849 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, based on its sovereign right to guarantee the country's energy security and independence, HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Energy Minister to take action to reach an agreement in case COMP/B1/AT.39849 9 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 on the implementation of the rules on competition laid down in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty (OJ L 1/1 of 4 January 2003).), taking into account the current practice of the European Commission in cases with similar subject matter. 2. Decision of the National Assembly of 24 November 2017 to take the necessary action to complete Case COMP/B1/AT.39849 95 from 2017) apply if no agreement is reached. 1. 3. Instructs the Minister of Energy to inform the National Assembly of the proceedings and actions taken therein. 4. Instructs the alternate prime minister to take control of the implementation of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. You have the floor to present, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u164	I will take this opportunity on behalf of the importers to propose this draft decision. As I have already read in the Report, it is complementary to a decision of the National Assembly last year and in view of the information we had at that time, obliged the Council of Ministers to act under art. 7 With a ban, without the recognition of guilt. In view of this, as I have already said in this report, the benefits of possible recognition of wines and cooperation with the European Commission, according to the general opinion of the Energy and plenary Committee at the time, were minimal in comparison with the possible losses that the sector would have suffered. After the decision of the National Assembly, a number of circumstances have taken place that require the decision of today. One of the most important circumstances is the conclusion of an agreement with Gazprom in the order of art. 9. That is to say, the European Commission and Gazprom agreed that Gazprom will not pay any financial sanctions. This is one of the main reasons why we believe that Bulgaria as a smaller offender according to the European Commission and, on the other hand, a member of the European Union should also reach an agreement under art. 9 and not to put up with financial sanctions under art. 7. In this regard, the decision of the National Assembly is also written. For more information about colleagues, I would like to give some background and actual state of the subject at the moment. The case was initiated in 2013 by the European Commission against the Bulgarian Energy Holding and its subsidiaries "Bulgargaz and Bulgartransgaz," i.e. the BEH Group. The charge against the BEH group is for abuse of a dominant position between 2007 and 2015 through various forms of refusal of gas infrastructure, including obstructing access to the Bulgarian transmission system, obstructing access to the gas storage facility in Chiren, obstructing access to the main import gas pipeline. The case was initiated on a complaint by "Overgas Ing" which, during the period of the alleged infringement, had 50% shareholder participation of Gazprom and part of the Gazprom group respectively. In parallel to the BEH Gas case, the European Commission filed a case against Gazprom on the charge of abuse of Gazprom's dominant position on the markets in Central and Eastern Europe as one of the countries concerned is Bulgaria. The charges against Gazprom are to isolate national markets and apply excessive prices. According to the European Commission, the victims of these practices are Gazprom's clients, including Bulgargas. In the statement of objections against Gazprom, the European Commission points out that Gazprom's intermediaries, such as Overgas, did not develop normal commercial activity, but only served as an instrument for conducting Gazprom's policy. In this sense, according to the European Commission, they are part of the infringement. On 24 May 2018, the European Commission announced that it had agreed with Gazprom, adopted the commitments proposed by the Russian side, i.e. behavioural measures, and ended the Gazprom case without finding a violation and without imposing a fine. Due to the relationship between the two cases, this approach appears to be most appropriate in relation to the BEH Gas case. In both cases the charges are for abuse of dominant position and the relations are analyzed, on the one hand, between Gazprom and Overgas, and, on the other hand, the Bulgarian gas companies. Even if there is a obstruction of access to the Bulgarian infrastructure, then by no means... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u165	Colleagues, it's very noisy in this room, please be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u166	... is no more serious violation than the isolation of the Bulgarian market and unfair pricing. It would be unfair if Gazprom is eligible for an agreement with the European Commission and this opportunity is denied to the Bulgarian companies. A separate question is whether the obstruction of access to the infrastructure is really more guilty of the Bulgarian companies or not. The Bulgarian side has repeatedly proposed options for making commitments that include not only the lighter behavioral measures which the European Commission considers sufficient in the Gazprom case, but also structural ones. In light of its new practice, the European Commission should enable the case to be resolved in a partner spirit and reach an agreement. This is also the reason why we should submit this complementary decision last year on this same case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this opportunity to thank everyone who supported the first decision that we are expanding today, with which we have shown a nationally responsible position. So that there is no doubt about what art. 7 and what Article 7 means. 9, I just want to explain it to you procedurally, because maybe some of you are not aware of it. With three sentences, the procedure is as follows: in connection with an alert, the Commission shall initiate a case for a possible infringement and if it goes under art. 7, as was the only option offered to us last November, this means that there has already been such a violation and that from now on the sanctions, which, on the basis of this already established infringement, must be imposed on us with the options of whether or not we recognise guilt. That was art. 7. We have given our backs to the government to stand properly and to protect national interest and not to admit guilt. In practice, this also meant many other additional things, as it was written in the reasons: the recognition of the infringement and the taking of responsibility and the financial penalty for it, would have led to serious financial and reputational consequences for Bulgarian energy, giving third parties the opportunity to immediately claim damages from the alleged infringement against the BEH group and the state............................... these reasons are public and therefore I took the liberty of reading them, because then the meeting was closed. The other option that exists under art. 9 means that the Commission has assumptions that there will be violations. In this regard, it shall have appropriate talks with the interested parties and, in turn, they shall say that they may respond to the Commission's concerns and not to the infringement found, but also to art. 9 is written:..the concern.. can make some commitments. In practice, it means that if these commitments are adopted by the Commission, it is recognised that Bulgaria is not guilty, that Bulgaria has commitments that will fulfil them, but it is not about financial sanctions or violations or guilt. Given the recent developments in terms of gas, we have come to the conclusion that, apart from the way we have given the government its back to negotiate with the European Commission, the European Commission without recognition of guilt, if we are walking under art. 7, give them a chance to close this case under art. 9, which means consent, no guilt, no consequences. And to make sure there's no retreat, you see, in the second paragraph, we oblige them if by art. 9 do not do your job, continue to do your job under art. 7.. without recognition of guilt. We, from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, will support this decision. I hope that all MPs will also support it, as we did in November. When the Bulgarian Parliament makes a strong request for political will and positive attitude towards the problems, as you can see, the European Commission takes note because otherwise we would already be in another case, otherwise. Thank you in advance, and let's wish each other good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? Any other speeches? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is indeed a decision that complements a previous decision of the National Assembly in order to enable Bulgaria's energy to take a breath. Because due to a change in the number of cases conducted between the European Union and other gas companies, we believe that with this decision we will minimize the damage and enable the government to be able to defend itself. If we can get out without damage, that's fine. We will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Kirilov? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u172	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a proposal under a procedure to extend the plenary time of today's sitting until the 11th item in the new order is completed. This is the second vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, the importer is Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs until the debate is over, including the vote on the new item eleven for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 129 MPs: 119, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I'm closing the debate on the front. I'm voting on the draft decision Mr. Dobrev just read. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, to read the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines.]] ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. At its regular meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u175	Mr. Dobrev, just a moment. Colleagues, please ensure silence in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u176	supposed by the Council of Ministers on 21 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Rositsa Nedyalkova Head of the Political Cabinet, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov Director of the Directorate of Energy and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development. The bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act was presented by Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, who pointed out that, first of all, the proposed changes contain a correct and complete transposition of Directive 72 and Directive 73 relating to the General Rules on the Internal Market for Electricity and Natural Gas. It takes away the current possibility for transmission and distribution grid operators to refuse access to them due to the deterioration of supply conditions. It is replaced by the possibility to temporarily restrict or suspend users' access under certain conditions. The restriction of access shall apply to already connected users. Other amendments to the Law introduce the obligation for the operators of transmission, distribution, transmission and distribution networks to motivate their decision in writing when new consumers are refused to join. Currently, an explicit requirement for written reasons does not exist in the legislation. This will ensure greater legal certainty for energy service users. The amendments to the Energy Act also prohibit the transfer of the staff of the transmission network operator to undertakings carrying out any of the activities of production or supply. Requirements shall also be laid down for the composition of the supervisory authority of the independent transmission operator. It must include members representing the vertically integrated undertaking and members representing the shareholders of third parties. The natural gas storage system operator will have independent of the vertically integrated undertaking decision-making rights with regard to the assets necessary for the maintenance, operation or development of the storage facilities. This ensures the independence of the operator, which must be ensured even when it is part of a vertically integrated undertaking. The transposition of provisions of the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Directive establishes a legal framework for operators of publicly available charging points for electric vehicles. The new texts regulate the figures of an operator of a publicly available charger point and users of charging services for electric vehicles. The line for the connection of the charge point to the electricity distribution network is envisaged. The deployment of the charging infrastructure will serve as an incentive for the wider use of electric vehicles, which is an environmental factor close to zero emissions and a strong noise reduction. The second group of amendments to the Law relieves the regime for the construction of linear energy plants They will already be built on the basis of established service law. The current texts of the Law provide for the establishment of a right of construction both for the construction of buildings and buildings and for the construction of underwater, underground and underground linear objects of the technical infrastructure. This lack of distinction between the types of energy objects aggravates the realization of investment intentions of energy enterprises. The legislative amendments introduce a definition of linear energy objects, including their permanently attached structural elements, such as the pillars to the power lines. The current regime for the acquisition of property rights leads to delays in the development of energy infrastructure. At the same time, this is the reason for costing investments, payment of penalties and losses of funding. Other changes in energy legislation govern the possibility of retrievable acquisition of property, private state or municipal property, without auction or competition for the construction or expansion of square energy sites. Trafoposts, substations and others. The proposed legislative amendments aim at reducing administrative procedures for building linear energy sites. The bill creates conditions for effective implementation of projects of common interest concerning trans-European energy infrastructure. In the subsequent discussion, the national representative Tasco Ermenkov drew attention to the fact that the proposed bill is related to actions dictated as a result of unresolved issues of notified state aid or criminal procedures against the state and asked whether the changes currently being made were notified. In view of these ambiguities, the people's representative Tasco Ermenkov announced that the MPs from the group of BSP will vote for Bulgaria. Energy Minister Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova replied that the proposed bill transposes a directive which has undergone changes that are not reflected in national legislation. The Ministry of Energy is ready to provide correspondence with the European Commission, which has set a deadline for these changes to be implemented. People's representative Mr. Delyan Dobrev expressed concern about the texts related to the introduction of regulation for the charging stations for electric cars because such regulation would make the development of the sector difficult for the electric mobility sector instead of being relieved. Therefore, it considers it necessary to rethink these texts and to drop them. Mr. Iliya Levkov spoke of the guests who supported what was said by the MP Delyan Dobrev. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 11 votes for the Energy Act No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u178	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. At its meeting held on 11 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mr. Zheko Zhekov, Head of the Department of Corporate Management in Energy and Mrs. Anelia Terzieva, Chief Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal and Regulatory Activities and Administrative Service and Human Resources. The bill was presented by Mr. Stankov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce into national legislation the requirements of: Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in electricity, the Electric Directive, Directive 2009/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, the Gas Directive and provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU on the deployment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. The amendments and additions to the Energy Act currently in force aim to fully and accurately transpose the requirements of the Electric and Gas Directive. The changes regulate the requirements for the composition of the Supervisory Board of the independent transmission operator, regulate the independence of the operator of the natural gas storage system and introduce a ban on the transfer of personnel to an operator that was part of a vertically integrated undertaking to undertakings operating in production and supply operations. In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU on the deployment of infrastructure for alternative fuels, the requirements of art. 4 paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 thereof and the necessary legal framework shall be established with regard to operators of publicly available charging points for electric vehicles. The bill also contains provisions on the establishment of the necessary property rights and the facilitation of the regime for the construction of linear energy sites. The amendments to the Energy Act aim at reducing administrative procedures when obtaining a permit for construction by distinguishing the permit regime in the construction of square energy sites from that of linear energy sites. A legal definition with regard to the Institute is provided for by the proposed establishment of the right of construction to be required only in the construction of sites which can be put into operation as separate sites. Amendments and additions to the Forests Act relieve the permit regime for the construction of linear energy sites by arranging the possibility of carrying out investment intentions for these sites on the basis of wait-for-service law without the need to change the purpose. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Krasimir Parvanov Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr. Angelin Tsachev Executive Director of the Energy System Operator and experts from the Ministry of Energy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Parvanov. He stressed that the proposed amendments to the Energy Act are in three main groups. The first group shall aim at the full and precise transposition into national legislation of the requirements of the Electric and Gas Directive and shall be linked to deficiencies identified in connection with infringement procedure No 2016/2079 under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with the commitment made in a position of the Republic of Bulgaria in response to letter of formal notice No C (2016) 4519 of the European Commission. The second group of changes introduces requirements under Directive 2014/94/EU and establishes the necessary legal framework for operators of publicly available charging points for electric vehicles not currently available in national legislation. The third group of amendments and additions are related to changes in the regime for the establishment of property rights and to the construction of linear energy objects. The aim of the Bill is to distinguish cases of authorising the construction of square energy objects from cases of authorising the construction of linear energy sites, and for the last necessary and sufficient condition a waitress law has been established. For the construction of square energy sites, when they are buildings or buildings, the requirement to acquire land ownership or to establish a property right to construction before the grant of the building permit is maintained. It is also envisaged that the notions should be refined, as the waitouts under the Energy Act are not classical land waitouts, but those which arise in favour of an entity operating under the same law. In essence, the current regulation governing the waitouts under the Energy Act is maintained as a special kind of property rights which, under the conditions laid down by the Law, arise under the Law. The determination of the amount and payment of the benefits for the waitouts of the energy sites is intended to be carried out in accordance with art. 210 and 211 of the Law on Construction in the Area or by mutual agreement of the Parties on the basis of an assessment by an independent valuer. The Law also provides for amendments to the Forest Act in order to achieve the synchronization of the regulations and to ensure the realization of investment intentions for linear energy sites on the basis of waitout law. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the proposed changes, paying attention to the discrepancy between the amendments proposed in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Bill and the reasons for this part of the changes. There was also a disagreement with the free use under the Infrastructure Act, which is public municipal property, which has been damaging municipalities and which they have objected to for years. It was underlined that the Commission in its various compositions has always maintained this position and defended the demands of the municipalities, but the changes in the Law in this direction lasted very briefly. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, and 6 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. The report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds remains. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 4 July 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Zhecho Stankov "Deputy Minister of Energy." The meeting was also attended by Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development at the Ministry of Energy, and Mr. Zeko Zhekov, Head of the Directorate for Corporate Governance in Energy at the same Ministry. Proposals for amending and supplementing the Energy Act shall be made in order to fully and accurately transpose the requirements of Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in electricity (the Electric Directive) and Directive 2009/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas (the Gas Directive). The proposals for amendment and supplement also aim at transposing provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure into the subject of regulation of the Energy Act. The first group of amendments and additions to the current regulatory act aim to fully and accurately transpose into national legislation the requirements of the Electric and Gas Directive and relate to deficiencies established in connection with infringement procedure No 2016/2079 under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and in accordance with the commitment made in a position of the Republic of Bulgaria in response to letter of formal notice No C (2016) 4519 of the European Commission. The second aspect of the proposed legislative regulation is supplementing the Energy Act with texts transposing part of the provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. The General Secretariat of the European Commission received reasoned opinion No C (2017) 6597 relating to infringement No 2017/0020 on non-transponated texts of Directive 2014/94/EU on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. The proposals are in line with the commitment made in the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on infringement No 2017/0020 sent to the European Commission, with amendment and addition of the Energy Act to transpose part of the provisions of art. 4 of Directive 2014/94/EU. The proposed changes to the Energy Act introduce the requirements of art. 4 paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Directive 2014/94/EU. The necessary legal framework shall be established with regard to operators of publicly available charging points for electric vehicles which are not available in national legislation at the time. The draft Law will also achieve the objectives of effective and ongoing projects of common interest within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 347/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on guidelines for trans-European energy infrastructure and repealing Decision No 1364/2006/EC as well as amending Regulations (EC) No 713/2009, (EC) No 714/2009 and (EC) No 715/2009. The draft will contribute to the implementation of the investment commitments made with regard to projects included in the list of projects of common interest adopted by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/89 of 18 November 2015. The draft contributes to the achievement of the objectives of European sectoral documents, including the Europe 2020 Strategy, as regards the common energy market and the security of supply. These objectives are achieved by the group of changes aimed at bringing the provisions on the establishment of the necessary property rights in accordance with the general regulation of the Property Act and facilitating the current complications regime for the construction of linear energy sites. In the subsequent discussion Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, Vice-President of the Commission, noted the importance of promoting the use of electric vehicles. In this regard, she asked a question: how will the construction of a network of charging stations actually happen and will this lead to additional administrative burdens? Commission President Christian Vigenin asked a question: how did it come to the fact that omissions and errors were made in the transposition of the texts of the Directive? Nikolay Nalbantov added that the operators of charge points are not suppliers of electricity and will therefore not come to complications in the provision of services. To the question asked by the President of the Commission, Mr. Nalbantov answered that the Law Directive was transposed with a long delay in the Bulgarian legislation, which required faster work on the drafting of the Law, however, serious deficiencies were found in subsequent verification. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 802-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act with an importer the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2018. They voted 102 MPs: for 76, against no, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIETY PROTECTION IN THE INTERVENTION OF SPORTS. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018, adopted on the first vote on 20 July 2018. Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber: from the Ministry of Youth and Sports Vanya Koleva Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports; from the Ministry of Interior Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u185	Please vote on the procedure for admission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u186	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 854 01-67, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018, adopted on the first vote on 20 July 2018. The second vote. The Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Public Order. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u187	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the Law. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u188	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 1 is inserted in Art. 2a. (1) Sports events are all public events held in a public place and have a sports-racing nature. (2) The security and safety measures for sporting events shall be the responsibility of their organisers. (3) Sports events may be: 1. organized at municipal, regional, national and international level; 2. with a high or low risk of disorderly public order. (4) The degree of risk of disorder of public order in the conduct of a sporting event shall be determined by the organizer of the event and the sports federation administering the relevant type of competition, jointly with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 and para. 3: sport organizers may be sports organisations within the meaning of the Law on Physical Education and Sports or other legal persons. (3) The administration of the sports competition, as part of the sport event, is carried out by a sports federation in the respective sport type. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words 47b, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The security officer shall take all necessary steps to implement security and safety measures and ensure that technical systems, equipment and facilities operate effectively on the day of the sporting event, including providing a space for an operational coordination centre. 3. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: The security officer shall equip the operational coordination centre room with the technical means necessary to manage the forces and means to ensure the security and safety of the sporting event and to provide fire and emergency safety and medical assistance, including in the event of crises. (4) The security officer shall inform the authorities of the respective Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of the place, date and exact time of the sporting event and of the manner of its security. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 5, 6 and 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u189	So far, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I can't see. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u190	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a separate vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u191	Paragraph by paragraph.. well, that is how we will vote. We begin with the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. They voted 104 MPs: 82, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which the Commission supports. They voted 107 MPs: 85, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 of the Commission Report. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5 in accordance with the text of the importer which the Commission supports. They voted 112 MPs: 90, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u192	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 11 is amended as Art. 11. (1) The organizers of sports events shall take all necessary measures on the days of sporting events within the territory of the sports area to be allowed only persons and vehicles having the right to access. (2) The right of access to sporting events shall be certified by the following documents/signs: 1. entry ticket or subscription card; 2. a service omission or accreditation; 3. Invitation. (3) Access to the sports event shall be made through the provision of a document/sign under para. 2, who customizes the visitor. When the document/sign under para. 2 does not personalize the visitor, access to the sports event is carried out after reading the visitor's ID card from a personal document scanner. (4) In the entry ticket, the service pass and the invitation shall be marked the sector, block and place, as well as the date and time of the sporting event. The entry ticket shall bear the bans on visitors to sporting events under the law. (5) Documents under para. 2, p. 1 for sporting events identified as such with a high risk of disorderly public order shall not be sold to a cashier on the day of the event and the organisers shall make this information public in advance. The documents under para. 2, p. 1 can also be sold electronically. (6) The conditions and arrangements for access to a sports event and for issuing the documents/signs under para. 2 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. (7) The organizers of sporting events shall take measures to protect documents/signs for access against counterfeiting or reuse, as well as to protect citizens' personal data. (8) The organizers of sporting events, with the interaction of the owners or users of sports sites, shall organise the storage of the personal data of the citizens for a period of three months and their subsequent deletion in accordance with the applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6. They voted 121 MPs: 96, none, abstention 25. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The Head of Security and Safety of the Sports event shall arrange for the skipping of supporters of the different teams through different entrances of the sporting site by controlling: 1. the right of access; 2. non-entry of persons and the introduction of prohibited articles and substances under art. 20 and 21; 3. to prevent persons with forced administrative measure from visiting sports events in the country and abroad. (2) In the territory of the sports zone shall not be allowed: 1. persons who refuse to be checked; 2. persons without ID; 3. persons who refuse to comply with the created arrangements for entry and residence in the sporting establishment; 4. persons in whom objects and substances are found, whose import into the territory of the sports zone and the sports site is prohibited; 5. persons who have used alcohol or under the influence of drugs or other drugs, as well as persons in an apparent inadequate or aggressive state, unable to control their behaviour; 6. minors not accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person caring for the child or by a person with pedagogical education in the case of an organised visit from educational establishments or sports organisations; 7. minors up to 16 years of age who are not accompanied by a parent, guardian, another person who takes care of the child or by an adult qualified companion when the sporting event ends after 22 hours; 8. persons with forced administrative measure ban on visiting sporting events in the country and abroad; 9. persons who commit violations under art. 20 and 21. (3) The consent of the parent, guardian, guardian, other person taking care of the child and of the accompanying person shall be certified by a model declaration as set out in the Annex in the case of accompanying a minor up to 16 years. (4) An adult may be accompanied by not more than three children up to 16 years of age, except in the case of an organised visit from educational institutions or sports organisations and in the case of a parent, guardian, guardian or other person taking care of the children. (5) In the event of the circumstances under para. 2, p. 1, 3, 4 and 5 may be used technical means for which a protocol is drawn up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u195	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for § 7, which is supported by the Commission. The second text is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8. Vote 127 MPs: for 123, no objection, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u196	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the word "proposal' is replaced by "sale and supply'. 2. The creation of para. 2: The organizers of sports events shall take measures to prevent the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages at the sports establishment, as well as of beverages in hard packages on the day of the sports event.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u197	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u198	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: In § 10, under Article 10 of the Treaty on the (a) A new para shall be created. 6: The organizers of sports events shall destroy the video recordings under para. 5 within a period of not less than three months from their preparation, except in cases where they contain evidence of a criminal offence or infringement under this law. A protocol is created for the destruction. (b) the current para. 6 becomes para. 7. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) The organizers of sports events shall, where necessary, provide additional technical equipment to the operational coordination centre under art. 9, para. 3. (2) The organizers of sports events shall capture the behaviour of the viewers in the sports area and the sports site and shall have video cameras for that purpose. (3) Video cameras shall be located in accordance with the infrastructure of the sports site, but not less than: 1. one camera for each input/exit; 2. one stationary and one mobile camera for each sector; the stationary cameras shall continuously film the entire perimeter of the sector concerned and shall have technical parameters allowing the personalization of each area and visitor; 3. cameras photographing the approaches outside each entrance/exit covering the sports area, the crates and the places for the construction of checkpoints. (4) The signal from the video cameras shall be displayed on control monitors located in the operational coordination centre under art. 9, para. 3. (5) The organizers of sports events shall notify the citizens through information boards placed in a prominent place or through sound equipment for the use of video equipment in the security of the site without specifying its location. (6) The organizers of sporting events shall destroy the video recordings not earlier than three months after their production, except where they contain evidence of a criminal offence or infringement under this law. Protocols shall be drawn up for destruction. (7) Records shall be provided only for the purposes of the authorities with anti-crime, public policy and national security functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u199	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10. Vote 128 people's views: 127, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u200	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u201	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. The text of the importer for § 11 and the text of the importer for § 12 to be supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: 97, none, abstention 30. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, as in art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "Signature' and "Signature'. 5 the words leading to them shall be replaced by the words leading to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u203	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission, presented to us by the National Representative Plamen Nunev. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u204	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov, made in accordance with Article 14. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the In § 14, in art. 21, t. 8 to add: as expressed by the chanting, instilling hatred on a racial, ethnic or religious basis. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 21 is amended as follows: Art. 21. Anti-social event (sport hooliganism) within the meaning of this law is an event that does not constitute a crime within the meaning of the Penal Code and is carried out in the sports object or sports area before, during or immediately after the sporting event, as well as a journey or return from the sporting object in connection with the sporting event, expressed in: 1. wearing flags, posters and transparants, on which are depicted texts, images, abbreviations and symbols urging hatred and violence, containing offensive qualifications or embodying ideologies, declared illegal; 2. refusal to carry out the orders of persons responsible for the sporting event engaged in security and safety or of the police authorities; 3. overcoming partitions, structures and facilities located in the sports object or sports area; 4. Invasion of the sports terrain; 5. the burning and maintenance of fire; 6. the throwing of objects; 7. wearing masks and actions to fully conceal the person or parts thereof, making it difficult to identify; 8. the making of cursing, other obscene expressions, gestures and behavior that are especially vulgar, as well as expressions and chanting, instilling hatred on racial, ethnic or religious grounds; 9. the carrying of weapons and articles which may be used as weapons; ammunition; protective gas sprays, detonating or colouring substances; flares, explosive devices, pyrotechnic articles and other general means, individual components thereof; narcotics and other tranquilizers; and other substances and articles which may be hazardous to the life and health of others; 10. challenge or participation in fights; 11. the use of the specified ones. 9 items, articles and substances; 12. abuse of competitors, judges, police authorities or other persons involved with the organisation, security or safety officials, as well as medical persons, journalists, photo reporters and operators; 13. destruction or damage of foreign property; 14. the use of flags, posters and transparants on which texts, images, abbreviations and symbols are depicted, inciting hatred and violence, containing insulting qualifications or embodying ideologies declared unlawful; 15. residence in the sports zone or sports site of persons within the period of a ban on visiting sports events in the country and abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u205	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, which we are discussing today at second reading, is extremely important because it concerns a huge part of the Bulgarian society. The public is waiting for these amendments and additions that we accept today to cross the so-called sports hooliganism, which has caused quite a lot of damage to both Bulgarian football and sports in general in Bulgaria over the years and has caused a lot of accidents. I can give an example with the injured Bulgarian police officer. If we are to be as correct as possible, it is this incident that pushes the Commission's work, which was formed, to submit these amendments to the Law. The Bill detailed, honourable Members, describes the cases of behaviour during sports events that are treated as sports hooliganism. Each of these 15 points, which the colleague read, in § 14, art. 21 enables law enforcement authorities to react and implement the relevant measures. Sports hooliganism, honourable colleagues, is characterized by an extremely ugly verbal aggression that floods stadiums, streets and television broadcasts, and instills hatred and violence both among athletes and audiences, instills intolerance and provokes aggressive behaviour towards racers and fans of sports hooligans, including insults, cursing, gestures and behaviour that are particularly vulgar. This behavior is described, as said by the colleague, in point. Article 8 21 of the Bill, but not specified the nature and to whom these insults and scandals were addressed before, during and after the completion of the sports event, and they are mostly racial, ethnic and religious. We, therefore, from the parliamentary group, have made an edit which was read by our colleague, proposed during the meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on Tuesday by our colleague Mr. Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. I would like to thank, on behalf of the group, all members of the Internal Committee for accepting our proposal. At first reading, the parliamentary group is abstaining from voting on this bill, not that we do not support it, on the contrary, we support the objectives of the Bill we are pursuing, but we doubt some objectives of whether they can actually be implemented, such as the admission to stadiums and sports facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u207	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I would like to ask you to support this proposal because at the meeting with football clubs from a group of football clubs made similar proposals. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Everyone was there!".]] Everyone was there, yeah, all the football clubs from a band. I will therefore ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u209	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14. Vote 138 MPs: 106, none, abstention 32. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u210	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: In § 15, in art. 25: (a) in para. 2 the words "80 to 320 hours" shall be replaced by the words "from 60 to 140 hours"; (b) in para. 3 the words " 160 to 480 hours" shall be replaced by the words "from 60 to 140 hours"; (c) in para. 4 words from 160 to 480 hours shall be replaced by the words from 100 to 220 hours. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 25 is amended as follows: Art. 25. (1) For anti-social events carried out under art. 21, t. A fine of 1000 to 2000 BGN is imposed. and a ban on visiting sporting events in the country and abroad for a period of one to two years. (2) For anti-social events carried out under art. 21, t. 11 " 15" is required free labor for the benefit of society from 60 to 140 hours or detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for a period of 5 to 15 days, as well as a ban on visiting sports events in the country and abroad for a period of two to three years. (3) When the act under para. 1 is carried out again, free work is required for the benefit of the society from 60 to 140 hours or fine from 3000 to 5000 BGN, as well as a ban on visiting sports events in the country and abroad for a period of three to 5 years, the period of which joins the unsuffered part of the same type of forced administrative measure, if imposed. (4) When the act under para. 2 has been remanded, free labour is required for the benefit of the public from 100 to 220 hours or detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for 10 to 25 days, as well as a ban on visiting sporting events in the country and abroad for a period of three to 5 years, the period of which is to join the unrestrained part of the same type of compulsory administrative measure, if imposed. (5) When the anti-social event was carried out by a minor aged 16 to 18 years, a detention within the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior shall be imposed for a period of 5 to 10 days and a ban on visiting sporting events in the country and abroad for a period of one to two years. (6) When the anti-social event is carried out by persons placed under an incarceration, their parents, guardians or guardians respectively shall be fined from 500 to 1500 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u211	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15 and the text of the importer for § 16, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u212	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Within 24 hours of the drawing up of the act under art. 26, para. 1 The Head of the Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior at the scene of the infringement or an official authorised by him: 1. issue a criminal order and order for imposing a forced administrative measure ban on visiting sporting events in the country and abroad in cases under art. 21, t. 1..10; 2. submit the file for the decision by the respective regional court, informing the relevant prosecutor thereof: (a) in the cases referred to in art. 21, t. 11.. 15; (b) when the anti-social event under art. 21, t. 10 has been re-enacted; (c) where the anti-social event under art. 21 was carried out by a minor aged 16 to 18; 3. send the material to the relevant prosecutor for the initiation of criminal proceedings where there is sufficient evidence of a crime committed; 4. send the file to the local commission to combat the anti-social acts of minors at the current address of the person for the imposition of educational measures under the Law on the fight against anti-social acts of minors when the offender is underage or underage by the age of 16; 5. terminate the file where there are no conditions for imposing a penalty and a forced administrative measure. 2. In para. 2 words. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 1, t. The following points are inserted after The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u213	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17, the second text of the importer for § 18, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: 108, no objection, 28 abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u214	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 words within the term referred to in art. 30, para. In the cases referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1, t. 2 no later than 24 hours from the drawing up of the instrument under art. 26, para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, in which it contains the following: 3 words................................................................................. 3 "8' are replaced by "al'. 3 " 7 ".
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u215	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 19, the second text of the importer for § 20, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 95, none, abstention 30. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u216	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The decision referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 33, para. 1, t. 1 and 4 shall be subject to appeal or protest within 24 hours of its submission to the relevant court of Cassation of the grounds provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Court of Justice in a Chamber of three Judges shall deal with the case on the day of its entry and shall rule by a reasoned decision which shall be final. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 22 and 23: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2 after the word ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 words under art. 23, para. The information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be made available to the competent authorities of The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 words under Art. 23, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The judge who imposed the penalty of free labour for the benefit of the public shall replace it with a detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior in cases and for the time limits under art. 25, para. 2 and 4, respectively, with a fine in cases and in the size referred to in Article 4. 25, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u217	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting three tests. First text of the version proposed by the Commission in § 21. Second text, "the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 22 and 23 with a text proposed by the Commission. The third text is the version proposed by the Commission in § 22, which becomes § 24. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u218	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 23 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u219	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 23. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u220	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 42 is amended as follows: Art. 42. The enforcement administrative measure under art. 41, p. 1 shall be imposed by order of the Head of the Regional Administration of the Ministry of Interior to carry out the infringement or an official authorised by him in the cases referred to in Article 1. 30, para. 1, t. 1 and with a decision of a judge of the respective district court in the cases referred to in art. 30, para. 1, t. 2 in the relevant proceedings under Chapter 4, Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26, in which it shall in para. 2 the words "3rd class, Section I" shall be replaced by "xl." 7a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 16. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Article 45 is amended as follows: Art. 45. (1) The organizer of a sports event which fails to fulfil his obligations under art. Art. 8, 10, art. 11, para. 1, 3, 5, 7 and 8, Art. Art. 12, 15, 16 and art. 17, para. 1 and 5, a penalty of 4,000 to 6000 BGN is imposed. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, a penalty of 7,000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (3) The organizer of a sports event which violates the provisions of art. 7a, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (4) When the infringement under para. 3 is carried out again, a penalty of 8,000 to 15 000 BGN is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u221	Statements? I won't. I put three texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 24, which becomes § 25. The second is the text of an importer for § 25, which becomes § 26, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission in the text. Third text of the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 26, which becomes § 27. They voted 131 MPs: 94, none, abstention 37. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u222	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The security officer who failed to fulfil his obligations under art. 9, para. 2, 3, 4 and 5 is punished with a fine from 500 to 1500 BGN 2. In para. 2 words - 1000 to 2000 BGN (BGN) shall be replaced by "2000 to 3000 BGN (BGN) " (BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN 2 - BGN) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 48 is amended as follows: Art. 48. (1) Head of Security and Safety of a sports event which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 13, para. 1 and 2 is punished with a fine from 500 to 1500 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, a fine is imposed from 2000 to 3000 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u223	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put three texts to the vote. First text of the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 27, which becomes § 28. Second text of the version proposed by the Commission in § 28, which becomes § 29. And the third text of the importer for § 29 becomes § 30, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 92, none, abstention 37. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u224	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the words "or 2" are deleted; (b) c. 3 after the word "Secure and safety" is added, and the words "100 to 300 BGN" are replaced by "500 to 1000 BGN." 2. In para. 2 words to BGN 600 and BGN 600 are replaced by BGN 1000 to BGN 2000 and BGN 600 are replaced by BGN 1000 to BGN 2000. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 50 is amended as follows: Art. 50. (1) Whoever, within the period of the ban on visiting sports events in the country and abroad, is established on the territory of the sports zone or the sporting site in the event of sporting events, shall be punished with free labor for the benefit of the society or detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior according to art. 25, para. 2 and a new forced administrative measure is imposed on him to ban the visit of sporting events in the country and abroad for a period of three to five years, the period of which he joins the unrestrained part of the same type of forced administrative measure, if any. (2) Parents or trustees who have allowed the person for whom they are responsible to commit the infringement under para. 1, a fine is imposed from 500 to 1000 BGN The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 4. "4." A minor case is any infringement in which the harmful effects of the event are non-essential.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u225	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put three texts to the vote. First text of the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30, which becomes § 31. Second text of the version proposed by the Commission in § 31, which becomes § 32. And the third text, which the Commission proposes for the text of § 32, which becomes § 33. They voted 131 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 35. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u226	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission proposes to establish § 35: .............................................................................. The proceedings established until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Paragraph 6 concerning art. 11, para. 3 shall enter into force one year after the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u227	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? There are no speeches. I'll put four texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for § 33 which becomes § 34. Second text of the Commission's proposal for the name of the division proposed by the Commission to be "Transitional and final provisions'. Third text.. the creation of § 35 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Fourth text of the Commission's version of § 34, which becomes § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u228	They voted 134 MPs: for 96, against 1, abstention 37. The proposals have been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank the Commission for Youth and Sports, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, all members of the Internal Commission and the Commission for Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Interior and the opposition colleagues who have been actively involved in examining and reviewing the texts that have been voted on today. Thank you for the consensus and I hope that this will give an additional opportunity for more security at every sporting event that takes place on the territory of the country and at the same time prepare ourselves for the basic law, which will take longer. But this was the consensus that was reached between all the political forces when we discussed the urgent, short-term measures that must be adopted before the launch of the football championship for the new season. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. My fellow Members, as we have extended the meeting, I would like to read to you the parliamentary control so that it can be allocated to the groups before we continue with the next item on the agenda. Parliamentary Control Communication on 27 July 2018, Friday: Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer one question from the MP Volen Siderov. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; and a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Yordan Mladenov; Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; and Dora Yankova; and one question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; and Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Rumen Georgiev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Elena Axieva. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Danchev; and Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev of a question by the MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev and Pencho Milkov; - the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question by the MPs Petar Vitanov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question by the National Representative Yordan Mladenov and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Georgi Yordanov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov two questions; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; and Stanislav Vladimirov and Lubomir Bonev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the MP Petar Vitanov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov; - two questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova; and Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Stoyan Mirchev to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. Moving on, fellow Members, with the next point. Previously, honourable Members, in connection with the upcoming celebration of September 6th, the day of the Unification at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents was discussed the possibility of dislocating the meetings of the National Assembly in the first week of September. Since September 7th is Friday and the MPs will have to travel to their electoral regions, then return, which will cost the parliament additional costs. We therefore decided at the Conference of Presidents: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 4 September 2018 at 1300 on the following agenda: 1. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on April 24, 2018. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. 4. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 ▪ Analysis of the postal services market. Importer supposes the Commission for Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the list of approved active substances, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of 5. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 Importer "The Communications Regulation Commission on 25 June 2018" The National Assembly shall not hold a plenary session on 7 September 2018 Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: 99, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to point eight: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND AFTER APPLIZATION CONTROLS ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON 18 JULY 2018 RETURNED FOR NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAYN No 197 OF 20 JULY 2018 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JUL. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on: Decree No 197 of 20 July 2018 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 25 July 2018, for a new discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, and the reasons to the Ukhaza The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 25 July 2018 discussed and discussed Decree No 197 of 20 July 2018 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 25 July 2018, for a new discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, and the reasons for the Ukhaza. The Vice-President of the Commission Mrs. Daniela Saveklieva reported the statement and the reasons for it, stating that on the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, exercising his constitutional veto right on the provisions of § 3 and § 4 of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In his motives, the President points out that he shares the main objective with which the initial additions to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control were introduced to lay the legal foundations for the creation of an electronic platform to carry out the sale of certain state-owned property and property owned by state-owned companies. Shares and easing the requirements for securing obligations of traders and producers of electricity to the Electricity System Security Fund. The public interest must first be guaranteed in order to dispose of state and municipal property. This interest has not only economic but also social dimensions. Therefore, there is a disagreement with the provisions of § 3 and § 4 because the public interest will not only be protected but will be substantially damaged. § 3 was created art. 32 years, according to which specific obligations directly linked to the activity carried out by the privatisation company cannot be attributed to the buyer for more than 5 years. In the absence of clarity on what these specific obligations are, the limits of assessment for which obligations to apply the 5-year period are wide. It should be borne in mind that where there are no objective criteria that outline the limits of that assessment, the corruption risk increases. § 4 of the adopted law provides that the provision of art. 32b, para. Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 32d shall also apply to concluded privatisation contracts on which, at the date of entry into force of this law, no outstanding payments for penalties for defaults during the first 5 years of post-privatization obligations. In this way, contracts concluded in the course of the operation of rules which have not allowed their change may be reviewed. Privatization contracts must normally be executed in the form in which they are concluded. The application of the limit for a 5-year period of specific obligations and to existing privatisation contracts will result in the exemption of purchasers from such obligations for the performance of which a longer period is provided for in the contracts. There is no assessment of how § 4 will affect the expected proceeds from defaults in the so-called Silver Fund and in municipal budgets. The penalty ensures the fulfilment of the obligation and serves as compensation for the damage caused by the failure, without having to prove it. Accordingly, § 4 will apply to buyers who have failed to fulfil their obligations but who have paid the penalty for them. Moreover, the payment of these penalties is required only for the first 5 years of the contract. This will also benefit faulty buyers who have outstanding payments for penalties for a period after those 5 years. There is no public need to rearrange already concluded privatisation contracts. The arrangements referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall go beyond the principle of legal certainty requiring the stability of legal transactions and the predictability of the legal consequences of the various legal facts. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission agreed that the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018 should not be re-adopted, contested paragraphs 3 and 4 should be rejected and relevant legal and technical changes to the related texts should be reflected. After the discussion and vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism with 18 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly: I. Do not re-accept the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018 and discuss the contested provisions. II. The contested provisions and the related texts shall be voted on as follows: 1. Paragraph 3 shall be rejected. 2. Paragraph 4 shall be rejected. 3. Paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall become paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively. 4. Paragraph 9 shall become § 7 and in it shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u232	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u233	Madam President, honourable Members! National representatives of NFSB will vote again for failure to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. We are pleased that this law was vetoed last week in plenary by the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4. We are also pleased by the fact that much of the reasons coincide fully with the arguments we have put forward in the plenary when adopting those rules. We share the reasoning of the veto that there is no public need to rearrange already concluded privatisation contracts. Moreover, the contested provisions concern the possibility that the penalties on privatisation contracts can be used for the state pension system and for municipal budgets. The changes, in our opinion, are also contrary to al. 5 of art. 32 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, which limits the possibility of making changes to already concluded contracts, because the public interest requires the contracts to assume and actually fulfil obligations. Therefore, privatisation contracts must be executed as they are concluded. It is also undeniable that the contested provisions go beyond the principle of legal certainty requiring the stability of legal transactions and the predictability of the legal consequences of the various legal facts. I am expressing satisfaction, both from the rapid reaction of the President with the imposition of veto and the change in the position of our coalition partners from GERB. I find it correct and nationally responsible for their decision to support the arguments and for these two paragraphs to be dropped from the Bill. In conclusion, I would say that NFSB will continue the course in the Bulgarian Parliament for serious judgment, for a serious statement of public interest in the adoption of bills, regardless of who they were proposed by in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u235	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! BSP Coalition for Bulgaria will again not support paragraphs 3 and 4 and we welcome the decision of the President of the Republic to ask the National Assembly to review the changes in the Law, as these paragraphs....................................................................................................... At several points, I would like to express our position. First of all, honourable Members, it is not just a single company at all, it is a large company as well as a Bulgarian maritime fleet. Here we are talking about dozens of centurys, honourable colleagues, BTC, Bulgartabac and the state action in Neftohim, the airline, that is, pay attention to hundreds of millions of levs, not a separate company. Therefore, if these texts do not return, they are not taken out of the Draft Law, they will be applied to the Bulgarian economy, to the Bulgarian public, and to the Bulgarian state, they will lose in hundreds of millions. Secondly, we cannot give a second gift to some of the privatizers. They bought these companies, the assets at low prices. Now the importers of the Draft Law, which brings back the right Mr. President, want us to make a second gift not to make additional investments, not to retain jobs, not to make technological renewal. What do you mean? With what eyes the importers here in the National Assembly are asking the MPs, and it is shameful for those MPs who voted these second concessions, non-Christmas gifts in hundreds of millions. Then, honourable Members, the Privatization Act is not an act relating to the sale of state assets, as some people understand it. Privatization is not just a sale of factories, machinery and equipment. The Privatization Act is related to a strategy of the Bulgarian state and therefore, honourable Members, and in the parliaments before us, different parliamentary groups have adopted what? A strategy for privatization of the Bulgarian maritime fleet for example. This strategy is a law and all the changes in privatisation are related to this strategy, as the Bulgarian public, the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian Parliament, when they have privatized, have said not only that we are interested in the revenues in the budget, which is this country that will not care what happens to the factories for the production of computers or electronic components, or chemical products, or sea transport services, or to the production of cigarettes there is no such state?! And that is why the changes in question are scandalous, as they cancel the spirit and letter of the Privatization Act. In addition, the next argument of the opponents of this step. They say yes, but one or the other companies can go bankrupt if they don't pay the penalty. What deception, what insolence, ladies and gentlemen! It cannot go bankrupt in the case of a Bulgarian fleet or any of the other companies I mentioned to you. The buyer of these assets could go bankrupt, and the buyer is different. Why should public opinion be misled? If the buyer, whoever he was, we gave him assets in the case for a billion, and he can't manage them, he loses his firm and goes into bankruptcy, well, he sells his assets from other companies. He is a rich man, sells his yachts, sells his luxury jewelry and returns to the Bulgarian people for his money that he could not manage the Bulgarian Navy or any other company! So no one will go bankrupt by the companies we've privatized! Only the buyer can go bankrupt, and what can the Bulgarian state do? If he goes bankrupt, then the Bulgarian state can sell his shares to 70% of the company in question and receive claims that he has not fulfilled the contract under the law. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a salesman and a buyer. The buyer signed a privatisation contract that he bought the state company and made certain commitments. If he can't fulfill his commitments, he pays. In the whole world, penalties are paid. Where's he gonna get the penalty money? That's his business. If it can't manage the company, it's being resold, the state takes its debts, and provides the company with another investor who, hopefully, will manage better. In this regard, I would like to point out that 30% of the shares remain state property and therefore, honourable Members, to prepare the Minister of Transport. This autumn we will ask him a series of questions to explain what money the buyer of the Bulgarian Navy has imported for the benefit of the Bulgarian budget. And since we know the answer, there will be great fun in the autumn, as it will turn out that nothing has been imported. [[(Radio.) Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Furthermore, I would like to welcome the work of the Privatization Agency, the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency, and especially, we have this right, to welcome a man who has been playing a positive role all along, sending letters to the prime ministers, including Mr. Borisov, and this is our colleague from BSP, representative at Oversight, Rusi Statkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is good that the Council of Ministers, I would like to commend, including yesterday Mr. Borisov mentioned that the Council of Ministers has allocated 2 million. 400,000. BGN to bring an arbitrage case against this outstanding buyer. This is true, but it is also true that, firstly, the Court of Arbitration takes a very interesting decision with three to zero, note that the representative elected by the Privatization Agency is also forced to vote against the state interests, so that a second time is required by the Council of Ministers to allocate money, to have a second arbitration case, to have a decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which the Court of Cassation says that the outstanding buyer must pay for failing to implement the privatisation contract. Furthermore, in the next place, honourable Members, if paragraphs 3 and 4 were admitted retroactively, something unheard of in international law, which will be discussed by fellow Members, I would like to tell you about an exceptional danger that we are going to overcome together today. This is the danger that the amendments to the laws with a retroactive date on privatisation and concessions, honourable Members, will lead to tragic consequences for the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian public. For example, where will it end if you sign a concession contract today, for example, for Sofia Airport and after 3 years decide to change the terms of the concession in the same way?! And instead of building a third terminal for tens of millions, make you a second coffee on Terminal 1? That's quite possible! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So these screams dripping, which here tried to make some colleagues, will not pass in any way! In addition, amendments to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control were proposed, what? " Without any financial estimates and this, unfortunately, becomes a practice of our parliament. Not that it's a whole new practice, but it's becoming extremely dangerous now. It had to come practically to a public explosion to back up and make the right decision today, because the estimates show phenomenal negative results if these amendments were adopted. So I would like to say the following: I propose to my colleagues from the ruling coalition, this autumn we will submit, join, a proposal for amendments to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. What kind of changes, colleagues? When we have said the words today, let us say the words of the Bible. To return § 8 of the Law, to remind you, which guaranteed the claims of the Bulgarian state from irregular privatizers, so you will have the opportunity to vote in autumn. Finally, fellow Members, this is not about saving Private Ryan, this movie character! Here we are talking and correctly react the colleagues from GERB, to the rescue of General Borisov. [[Noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And it's much better, it's the right decision to sacrifice a private to save the general! And we from BSP for Bulgaria are not saving anyone. We, together with the president, are protecting the public interest. Have a nice day. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u236	Thank you, Professor Gechev. A line, Mr. Kirilov? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u237	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, I take the floor not to question the veto. In the veto, we have expressed our position and will support the President's veto. But I cannot allow absolute legal truths to be spoken in the framework of this debate and to replace the meaning and content of the Law and its history. I have prepared here provisions that show when the Privatization Act establishes the deferral and deferral of obligations. I can read them to you. These are amendments and additions that were made in 2003, dear Professor Gechev. I will not return to the analysis of privatization legislation 1996 and remind you of how several methods of privatisation have appeared, which have rewarded some individuals, some of whom are now present at your captivity as serious aiders, sympathizers and supporters. [[Applause from GERB.]] I will not ask those individuals who have gone bankrupt many state-owned enterprises [[GERB's line: "I banks. "]] and privatization banks, what privatization commitments had been made. Did they even take over so we could ask if they did? I quote specifically the norm of art. 35e, which says that the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control negotiates with the contestant. You, as a professor, cannot fail to consider that the conditions of privatization are available only in the competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u238	Time, Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u239	In an auction, you cannot oblige the privatizer in any way. In other ways, you cannot oblige it in any way where it pays a price and takes the company's shares or shares.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u240	Mr. Kirilov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u241	I apologize, Madam President, but I cannot fully develop all the arguments against the untruths. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u242	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Any other lines? I can't see two. A hole, Professor Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u243	Mrs. Chairman! Colleague Kirilov, I didn't hear any arguments about any legal changes. The buyer of the firm in question, for which you concentrated, connected and with some private, ended up alone in the competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u244	No, I'm talking about Banev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u245	Ah, fourteen-fifty companies dropped out and he bought it. Besides, because you're asking me to take this opportunity. The first government... [[GERB's line.]] Because it's a mistake to ask. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Borisov's first government has made a very nice postponement of the investment program of the Bulgarian Navy..... and after several months the government reschedules it. No more investments, no more ships, no more jobs. [[GERB's line.]] And now, hop again, let's give a present 58. No, I'll end up like this. Mr. Kirilov, tell the privates in question that they drank champagne in vain the other day. Drinking water cold, in large quantities. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u246	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u247	Madam President, honourable Members! I am delighted to hear the violent reactions to the left of this bill because there was a violent silence during the adoption of these texts. I will express the position of the IMRO MPs who will support the veto. As we know, it's two paragraphs. By § 4, we did not vote or abstain, as we believe that it is indeed reproaching, redeploying in the future relations that are governed by privatisation agreements. It, of course, has no retroactive effect, does not lead to the remission of old debts, as it was running too much in the media, but in any case it can create enough losses for the state in the future. That is why we did not support this paragraph. This is not the case with § 3, which we and some of the BSP colleagues supported because... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, please, let's see the printouts, let's not lie to each other. Eleven votes for one, I think there was one there. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u248	Please, colleagues, be quiet! You're entitled to lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u249	Since there is a logic in this paragraph in terms of a basic method of reducing the price of undertakings. There are some long-term obligations that are specific that aggravate the deal, and instead of taking a billion, let's say we take half because, you know, people have obliged these factories not to change their purpose and so on. Of course, when the state wants to keep certain proceedings, certain types of enterprises, it has other means of doing so by means of a gold operation, by means of minority participation, preservation and so on, to keep them. These specific obligations do not always work, but often weigh at the price, i.e. the state takes less money. In any case, we will also support in this part, of course, the veto, because perhaps this is a debate that needs to be held from the beginning, i.e. with first reading, with a second reading, the public should be aware of what is being discussed. This text remains unexplained and is therefore correct to drop. So we IMRO MPs will take the veto into account, support it and hope that this will be a useful move for our legislative practice accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u251	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! If a person is not in this room, does not read the newspapers in Bulgaria and does not watch the TV shows, he will think that the ruling party, the majority and the importers of this bill by the United Patriarchs have nothing to do with themselves a few days ago. What do you fellow Members want? The president had to veto a law. The Prime Minister, who does not know what his own parliamentary group voted on, to solidarity with the President half an hour later, to bring quick changes to the bill, to pass through the Commission. Mrs. Stoyanova, chairman of this committee, let's not see her in the Chamber today. Where is it? I can't see her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u252	Petar Kanev is President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u253	He's gone, and Mrs. Stoyanova is gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u254	Mrs. Stoyanova is on the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u255	Mrs. Saveklieva reported this question a moment ago. Where is the responsibility of the ruling majority at this time? Where's the responsibility? Shut up! Quiet, fellow Members! There's silence in the grave! The chairs of the United Patriarchs are empty because surely, I don't know, they're fighting somewhere on the sidelines. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] My fellow Members, do you rule, do you not rule, are you in opposition? Mr. Tsvetanov, what role is he in when he goes around the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u256	Your time, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u257	That's what I don't understand. Is he in charge? Is he opposition? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u258	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u259	Take responsibility for what you have now adopted as legislation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u260	Your time is up! Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva, for reminding me. But it is high time that you put order in your legislative initiatives as a ruling party and a majority. Take responsibility for what you offer and not change your mind every half hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u262	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Zablyanov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u263	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u264	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, I'm asking you not to abuse time. CHRISTIAN MITEV (OP): Thank you, Madam President. I won't abuse time. Colleague Veselinov, I disagree with your statement. It was incomplete, unfortunately. You should still have reminded this full part of the plenary on the left that, in fact, a week ago, it was half empty and there were only 22 people. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] And as I recall, there was not a single statement on any of these paragraphs. Thank you. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u265	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u266	Madam President, honourable Members! It's hard for me to answer the first line because there was no content in it. There were some spells about how bad they were. I respect Mr. Zablyanov, I suppose, due to his poor eyesight, there was an accusation that the seats of the United Patriarchs were not occupied. On the contrary, there are almost all colleagues from our parliamentary group here. So in this regard, perhaps in some hollow-talking championship, Mr. Zablyanov, you had every chance to take a subpoena. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I mean, we, unlike the BSP, don't spin around like a drag coat, as is the expression. We had a position in the previous sitting, and now we have the same position. We considered that one paragraph makes sense, and we supported it, the other one, which was the most controversial, actually not a single vote from IMRO has gone for this bill. We, honourable Members, unlike you, do not make pirouettes, state our position and hold it high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u267	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. To speak, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] That was a doppelganger. There's no personal explanation. I can't give you a personal explanation, Mr. Zablyanov, please. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It was the back of your line. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] I won't give you a personal explanation! Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for your statement. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] First of all, Mr. Dimitrov. They've signed up for a statement. I'll sign you up after Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u268	How many people have signed up, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u269	Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Zarkov. Here are the records.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u270	And Mr. Jablyanov number four.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u271	Of course, I'll record you. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u272	Thank you, Madam President. I think it was the right thing to say, too, because they constantly associate this law with me, and to bring clarity. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u273	Please be quiet, colleagues! Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u274	To bring clarity, because a lot of people, I would say, everyone in this room knows the truth, but it's helpful to pretend that we don't know it and we comment on all sorts of things to other media. Dear colleagues, you know how these texts came from the Privatization Agency. Is there any of you in the room who doubts loyal to your parliamentary group that when you are only the only person in Sofia when a text is brought up and said: this text is agreed with all the other political forces, they are waiting in parliament to sign it. In front of you is the leader of your party I am a civil quota, the leader of another political force who brought the text, the president of the portfolio committee who say that, yes, the text is perhaps coherent and since everyone will support it, there is no need for us to be different. Do you think that by being the only MP in Sofia, I would refuse to sign a text that all the leaders have approved and are waiting in parliament to sign? And that happens at four and a half. And at five o'clock, I come here for a press conference. The next day, when I found out that the other political forces were hiding behind my back and only my signature was left in the middle of the text so that the other powers on top could sign, I said that I would not and would withdraw this text, it does not have to be with my signature alone. On Wednesday, I had a law on fuel here. As soon as I explained to the stenographers that there were two words that I had pronounced vaguely, I went up to the Economic Commission. Will the members of the Economic Commission deny that I went to their committee to withdraw the text I had publicly stated that I would withdraw it?! But they wouldn't listen. They were done, and they voted very quickly. Then I said that if anyone liked this text, be good enough to put it in the second reading vote. I went and submitted a text to the National Assembly, reading it verbatim: Through the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva to the President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Dear Madam President, I withdraw proposal No 854-04-14. I ask that the same not be discussed and voted upon when presenting the second vote report in plenary. Did you have an emergency meeting? Have you considered my proposal? Didn't you put it in the report and put it to the vote in the House? Everything I had to do, I did. I've declared it, I've recorded it, I've imported it. Now that the president decided he didn't like this law, you suddenly remembered to hold extraordinary meetings. Then why didn't you accept the text and read it? I'm sorry, but I wasn't in the room, I didn't offer it, I didn't vote. On the contrary, I have written confirmation that I withdrew it. A hundred and how many voted for? If we're going to put labels on each other, who are the lobbyists? This isn't right! It's not good to label! [[Replicates in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] Gentlemen, I have said not to be included in the report, not to propose for discussion. What's more than that? What wasn't clear to you? Let's say what the legislative procedure is. Between the two readings, you have the right to submit a text. So you have the right to submit a text during the second vote in the Commission, but you have no right to withdraw the text before the first vote! You gave it after second, but you can't do it before first reading! No, you always have the right to withdraw your lyrics! And I've withdrawn it. And instead of being clever in front of the cameras, you could have held an emergency meeting and not come to this situation. The text has been clear and precise.. It is withdrawn, not to be discussed, not to be Did the president have to return it, honourable Members, because you're not reading what colleagues have imported to decide that you should vote on it? Do you only read his suggestions or read them to everyone else?! We risk loading the honourable Mr. President with our quarrels and internal contradictions. Should we not read the President's decrees tomorrow, because, you see, he's right in his argument, but there's a professor here who's very complex or very nagging so we can reject everything the President has?! It wouldn't be right! The President cannot be a PR man of any of us here, whether he is a professor or not, and should be an arbitrator of public relations. And when he succeeds in achieving this midpoint, not to be addicted, but to be an arbitrator, we immediately begin to use it as our own PR. Okay, I should be glad that the president thinks like me, but I think you could have done it when this proposal came. Finally, this norm is a legal framework. It enables the court, when assessing such cases, to anticipate the crisis. Because at the moment, the crisis for the court does not exist. We are making a budget. There was no crisis, there was a crisis, there was little growth. There is a crisis all over the world, but for the Bulgarian court there is none because we did not give the norm. This norm could have helped the court. We're taking it off, so you've decided, I agree with you. To conclude, do not burden the President and his acts with our domestic policy..................... to support him.................................................................... to reject his demands. Do not burden Mr. Daniel Kirilov, who has absolutely no relation with negatives to this law. [[Replicates in "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Neither him nor I am interested in this law, and a procedure that we have carried out in due course, you have not taken into account. I took your opinion and vote the other day, and I'll take it now. But stop the politics on the President's back and don't do it PR. Stop attacking the perpetrator, Danail Kirilov, who in this case has nothing to do with it. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u275	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Next statement please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u276	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! If I had known that this would coincide with the order of the speeches, I would have abstained from this statement at this very moment. Thank you to colleague Emil Dimitrov. I think like him, too, but I have to explain. Before I explain, I believe that, since this case has been reacquired to the attention of the National Assembly, it deserves attention, deserves to be re-examined. As we said at a press conference Tuesday, we will vote in favour of the president's veto in respect of paragraphs 3 and 4, no matter how much we support the reasons he has proposed in connection with the veto. In any case, the President speaks of doubts regarding the protection of state and public interest. Once there is such a doubt, we have always supported, we have always been in a position that any doubt and hesitation must be taken a step back and investigated at least once again, to analyse once again, to discuss........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I regret that I had to react with a replica of my colleague Gechev's speech, but if I went to explain my discontent with the legislative amendment, with the legislative set-up, with the concept of privatisation, this would be a very long and extensive topic. We invited the President of BSP for Bulgaria to join our motives for dropping the persecution statute in relation to crimes committed in connection with privatisation. We didn't get an answer. Even the motives our legal team wrote didn't end up getting them, but only Mrs Cornelia Ninova got them. We were ready with this development, which still stands by your attention for debate. I want to show you this solution. [[Shows document.]] This is Decision No 139 of 6 July 2017. Sorry, this is Decree No 139 of 6 July 2017 of the Council of Ministers. With it, the Council of Ministers says: "To secure 2.2 million. lv. for the State fee. By this decision I found out who is the privatizer, as a matter of fact, about the disputes concerning the International Commercial Arbitration before the Court of Arbitration of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, put forward pursuant to VAD No 158/2016. "Ki G Meritaim Shipping" AD against the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. Let me finish with the conclusions. Never give the government the kind of attitude that it didn't have to deal with specific privatization transactions. State interest was protected. The argument was specific. Again, and at the moment I do not consider myself interested in any way that I should go looking to collect court papers or a history of the privatisation contract because, I said it and then in my procedural opinion, the law should not act and refer to a specific case. He has to act on everyone. Speaking for everyone, here again I want to share with you the Privatization of the BMF in what way it has been conducted whether a competition, as Professor Gechev now says on the spot, was it by some of the methods of so-called cash privatization, or by other methods of mass privatization, which then went from mass to cash. Only it became a cash post-privatization and someone took the real money of the distributed state property in privatisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u277	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u278	I'll say this. We accept that in this case it is a competition. Professor Gechev says it's a contest, we assume it was a contest. I'm going to repeat, which has highlighted the audience's attention on Tuesday. Colleagues, we have been faced with a situation where we have an approved report from the committee responsible. We have a point of order. I have taken an opinion on these procedural issues and I continue to argue that there was no way not to discuss the proposal under § 4, since there was no further report by the committee responsible. I deny the statement of MEP Dzhambazki, who says that I was almost the nuclear engineer who collected the two cores of the atomic bomb in § 3 and 4 and something happened. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Guys, that's not true! I said it in front of journalists, and I say it at first sight, because I am not a member of this committee, I saw that the texts are not relevant. For this reason, I have taken an opinion on a procedure to assist my colleagues from the Economic Commission. Who was here, who wasn't here, the point is, unfortunately, I was here. Obviously, and, unfortunately, I still don't refuse to take responsibility! I think that when I can help legally or procedurally with an opinion, I should do so. Just three sentences because I don't want to prolong the subject. Colleagues, I had prepared positive opinions from ministries on Tuesday, from the Privatization Agency. Where was Rusi Statkov a member of the Supervisory Board before this moment said: "Absourd! What's going on with § 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u279	He said it! Be honest, don't let this room down!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u280	He said it, but we didn't hear it. You didn't hear it either, because you didn't say it at the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u281	Colleagues, you're entitled to a line. Don't call right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u282	What do specialists in the field know?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u283	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u284	I said about the first, for § 3.. Alexandrov used the expression..................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u285	Quiet, please! Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u286	Colleagues, these texts, even if adopted, even if they had such a purpose, would in no way have done this work that you are putting into these texts. You know, and Professor Gechev should know that during the competition procedures the main obligations are for a period of three to five years! The only obligation under both the RMDs and the cash privatisations was if there was a deadline of 10 years, it was to preserve the subject of activity. Here, in this particular case, I think there is no dispute on the subject of activity. If I've been deluded into something personally, that's what I've been deluded into, that is to say, that in order to avoid privatization, yes, we are already on a moratorium on privatisation... GERB was not involved in privatisation. GERB has in no way developed the privatisation process. All amendments to the law, the most restrictive, have been adopted since 2010. We've narrowed it down, we've narrowed it down. We were trying to get all the procedures in light either on the stock exchange or, as is the current proposal, with an electronic public tender. Don't blame GERB for this. GERB has nothing to do with this process! [[Private applause from GERB.]] We tried to show coalition culture. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u287	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zarkov. [[National Representative Krum Zarkov wants an extension of time.]] Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, it is not a beautiful view of the acquittal deputies who have imported those who have supported. I will save it for the simple reason that I and the parliamentary group I represent voted against these texts last week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u289	Why weren't you in the voting room? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u290	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u291	The veto on the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act [[a line from the MP Julian Angelov]] sets a far deeper question that the caller can hardly understand. This is yet another and perhaps the brightest proof that this Parliament is legislation in an opaque, incorrect and vicious way. And this is not due to ignorance, to inability, to ignorance of procedures and methods by which laws are passed in a civilised and democratic state. It's not like that. There is another reason why what is happening to this law is happening. The reason is that the objectives of the bills, their real goals, are such that no one dares to take political responsibility for them. Those who promise interested parties that the contested bill will pass would not like to engage publicly with their informal commitment. I say informal because the formal commitments, the real, the real, the legitimate, those who are taken before the Bulgarian citizens are often the exact opposite of what some people promise other people with money. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This applies to the entire Council of Ministers, which prefers the bills made in ministries, to be imported by the individual MPs. By the way, thank you for showing your views that some ministries support the scandalous amendment that we must reject today. This applies especially to the most numerous parliamentary group here, to the backbone of this government, to the GERB party, without which these bills cannot see the light of day, including the one we are discussing again, but which are organised so that their submission is done by their partners, other parties or individual MPs. It's a very simple trick to make a move. If there is a scandal, it is at the expense of another, if there is a big scandal, they withdraw their support. It works on the principle if it passes, and the main goal is not to spray them with dirt those who create it or at least contribute to it being created. This is how the guilty are brought out rescuers, and opposition, president, critical media, protesters are called saboteurs, coupsters, conspirators and whatnot. Attempts to get the black white to go to absurd, yet they cannot hide the obvious scheme of government, which is being demonstrated once again today. The scheme is as follows for those who do not understand it: government is built around several players who are protected from public discontent through fuses and the only real political burden of ministers, deputy ministers, agency bosses, individual MPs is to burn when one of the big players gets under his feet. In this system, resignations are not an expression of political responsibility, they are the opposite of those who are supposed to bear it. The pawns are self-sacrificed because of the officers, and the queen... A queen is a Parisian! [[Relations, excitement.]] Parica! People with money are ordering laws and that is the clearest term to describe the multi-spectrum concept of "lobism" or, as the president said in his veto, "The public interest will not only be protected, but it will be substantially damaged." It is good that this veto will be accepted, but that is not enough. Thanks to the President of the Republic today we will prevent the damage of the Bulgarian treasury, but the great danger to Bulgarian democracy, Constitution and parliamentaryism remains. It lies in the functioning of this National Assembly and the returned law is the consequence of this. Its initial adoption definitively and irreversibly discredits this Parliament. The acceptance of the veto is mandatory, but the general decision is different. The general decision is to have a lot more people looking for the national, not someone's private interest. [[(Voices: "Bravo! ") Continued applause by "BSP" for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u292	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Will there be lines? I don't see any lines. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u293	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am deeply convinced that the President did not suspect that at the end of this parliamentary session he would have to veto our bill on this particular occasion. I do not understand why the ruling majority had to give such an opportunity to the Head of State? The reason is simple, part of the reason that a colleague Krum Zarkov explained them just now. I'd like to start with something before I was given the opportunity. I have minus 2.75 dioptre shortsightedness for Mr. Veselinov, I can count the empty chairs from the front row to the last in the order of the patriots and calculate the coefficient of the guilty conscience of the importers of this bill. There's no doubt about it. The only thing that seems to me today is to tell the Bulgarian voters that the ruling party is ready to provide state money at any moment to any private who gives it money to win the elections! [[Noise and shout in GERB.]] This is the formula of power in Bulgaria by law, by out-of-fund means, with any changes to legal documents, the only form for the retention of power and its exercise in the last ten years is the union between the Bulgarian oligarchy and the government of GERB in its various forms, configurations, ministers and whatever else you think of with a single Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. This is the political formula of domination in Bulgaria over people who pay taxes, taxes, wineries and everything else through the laws that you offer. [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] You ensure by legislative means the dominance of large capital on the small Bulgarian owner, worker, unemployed [[strong noise, shouts and lines from GERB]] , an unhappy Bulgarian citizen who was robbed daily. [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] This is the philosophy of your rule! This is your concept of power and on it you build your power [[noise and lines]] Your choices, your institutions, your personnel policy, everything. The current amendment to the Privatization Act is the quintessence of your understanding of privatisation as a political instrument for domination. Today you are forced, your prime minister, your party is forced to turn 360 degrees, 180 degrees, 720 only and only to hold power. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're ready to make all the pirouettes to stay in the station. You won't pass the term! You won't pass the term! [[Replication by MP Julian Angelov. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u294	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u295	There will be elections! You'll be left with 30 men.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u296	Madam President, take him away. What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u297	Mr. Zablyanov! Please, no threats to the court! [[Noise, cheer, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u298	Do you understand?! This is the situation, honourable colleagues from GERB. You can't bring in opposing bills every three days. Your government is condemned for nothing else, but because your Prime Minister is scared. Borisov was scared...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u299	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u300	...returned the bill, and you are the ones who serve the fear of Mr. Borisov. Every day, unfortunately, you have become an instrument of sole power in Bulgaria and there is no way the power of oligarchy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u301	Mr. Jablyanov, please. Please, no insulting qualifications for fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u302	What is the insulting qualification, Mrs. Karayancheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u303	Please, the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u304	No, what's the offensive qualification? I'm waiting to hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u305	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u306	Tell me, what is the offensive qualification? [[Noise, lines, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u307	Mr. Zablyanov, continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u308	No, tell me, because you said there were insulting qualifications, tell me the insulting qualifications? [[Comments from GERB and OP, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u309	Mr. Zablyanov, will you keep talking?! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u310	You just warned me not to use offensive qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u311	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u312	What's the offensive qualification?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u313	Keep talking, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u314	If you can't think of her, say, "I can't remember, I'm sorry, Mr. Zablyanov."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u315	I'll check the transcript and tell you, but I know there was. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u316	You can't remember.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u317	Keep talking or I'll take your word away. Here you go. Keep talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u318	You're forcing me to keep talking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u319	Yes, by his statement. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u320	This is the first case in the National Assembly in which you are forcing someone to continue talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u321	Do you have anything more to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u322	I have, of course, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u323	Here you go. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u324	Madam President, honourable Members! It's not a humorous situation, it's satirical. You cannot accept legislative amendments that allow a private tycoon, as a result of a violation of the law, to collect 60 million. lv. on behalf of the Bulgarian State. One other financial tycoon three years ago, according to your calculations, picked up 4 billion, went to Belgrade, and to this day he lives well there, at Skadaska, I don't know where he spends his money.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u325	An agent of State Security is this tycoon...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u326	Mr. Gurnevsky, we know everything you're about to say. [[Replication by National Representative Spas Gurnevsky. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u327	Colleagues! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u328	I want to ask you: aren't you embarrassed by yourself? There can't be a law that you convinced to vote for, convinced to vote to provide 60 million, you know all this gentleman, you were at a game last night to give him the money by law, state money and in three days to solidize with the president. Don't you have any self-respect? Any self-respect? Excuse me, say, "Yes, we were wrong." [[Replications by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] How can such a thing be? The Bulgarian people are tired of your behavior. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u329	Here you go, Mr. Angelov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zabljanov, my reply to you, my colleagues in the previous statements have also touched on, but clearly you have not understood or you are pleased to be three-and-a-half you and your party.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u331	Two and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u332	Okay, two and a half to be as many as you want, and one and a half as you want, as you feel. I cannot understand where your party really was when these texts were voted here? Why didn't any of your party become so enthusiastic to explain how harmful this is? Where were you? Where was Comrade Ninova? Where was Professor Gechev? Where was Zarkov? You've been pleasing the oligarchy, then. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] Fifteen people from the BSP voted paragraph 3: three for the opposite, 11 against, 1 abstention. For the next paragraph, half abstentions are abstentioned and against 20 people. Where did you please the oligarchy? Why weren't you there? Why didn't you say anything? We're the bad guys, we're the oligarchs' defenders. You oligarch wrestlers, where have you been? Where have you been? How many of you were there? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where was Comrade Ninova? Or did she order you to serve oligarchs? I guess that's what it was. Now, because the president vetoed, you want to have a PR, get out wrestlers against oligarchy, against the mafia, advocates of national interests. Which defenders, Mr. Zablyanov, for national interests, and it was you who declared yourself against the interests of the Bulgarians in the Western outskirts and their desire? You, who sell the national interests of the Bulgarians, will talk to me about national interests?! [[Strong noise, shouts, lines from BSP for Bulgaria...]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u333	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u334	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Zablyanov! There is an interesting debate that perhaps should have been held while the Law was passed. Now the debate is about veto. We, on a political level, have said that we support the veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u335	That's what we say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u336	That we support the veto. You cannot understand this because your party, as we know, is right even when it is wrong. We have a party leader, Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister. We tend to take these hints of lobbying and so on to clear all doubts. You obviously also have an informal leader because you started talking after he said his word to Mr. Radev. Obviously this is your leader because you did not speak such passionate speeches here, while this law was passed, and colleague Angelov drew you out who voted how there were people from your people who supported you. Maybe they got confused. I don't know. Three people voted for one paragraph. It doesn't matter! The important thing is to clear the doubt. If we were here dependent, serving, dark forces, oligarchy, we couldn't get rid of that dependence, how would we comply with that veto? We still have voices, let's say, to reject it with our coalition partners, only we don't, because we tend to listen to your voice even though it has come late or come after your informal leader has spoken his mind. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u337	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Will there be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u338	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the ruling majority! Human thought is powerless in front of such statements. Mr. Bikov voted for this bill, at least for this reason he had to sit in his place, not to remind himself and his own controversial person. The ruling majority has supported this bill. The Prime Minister did not understand that his majority supported this bill. He thought of it when the President of the Republic vetoed it. Today we are listening to the outrage of the President of the Legal Commission, of MPs from the majority about how they do not serve the Bulgarian oligarchy. Who do you serve by giving away $60 million? Who exactly are you serving? I don't get it.! Professor Gechev, perhaps you serve?! Excuse me, Professor Gechev, on Wednesday morning during the discussion of the previous law explained what this House is about. BSP with MPs voted against. BSP really supports the president's veto because it raised this president because we had no doubt and were convinced that it was about an honest citizen of Bulgaria who would stop all muses of your majority, and he stopped them. And what is it that you resent that BSP and the president share a common opinion? They'll have common ground until you're out of power. Until then, there will be common ground! There will be a new government that will stop all of this. He's gonna stop this handout under the table, stop pouring into football teams, in the Navy, in the middle of nowhere, and I don't know what kind of carousels on the highways they just walked through here. It will stop and this people will take a breath, and it will look different, and it will believe in its own country, and it will get rid of you. And you'll stay 15 if you fight for that. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u339	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov. This time you were right on time. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thought there wouldn't be such a fierce debate today because nothing forced it, nothing provoked it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u341	Only 60 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u342	The conduct of the parliamentary majority and the political position claimed by each of the parliamentary forces was to support the president's veto. And today we could really show something different from what we have shown to every veto that the president of the country has imposed. Anyone can make his argument to both the left and the right, and speak anything that can be directly charged with any of his political opponents. Can you tell me what this leads to? Someone's gonna get more loved, we're gonna get all hated, but no one's gonna admit that he's become a bigger statesman. What the parliamentary majority has done here, I want to give a light chronology, because a lot of untruths have actually been said. Firstly, in the debate that was held last week, there were very clear signals forming a parliamentary majority, which adopted the Economic Commission Report, which is headed by an opposition chairman, and this report was adopted and voted in plenary. Then it began to be interpreted by everyone in their own way, but BSP colleagues were absent from the Chamber, Members of the parliamentary majority, yes, we did vote all MPs who supported this legislative norm, and it became clear to everyone that this legislative norm would have no direct benefit for what is formed in the public space for certain economic persons or for certain economic circles. However, what has been created as a feeling in society is the policy that is being made in the last few weeks and months and perhaps for a year and a half by the BSP is always taking some kind of wave and believing that it will be able to receive greater public support. Colleagues of BSP, we know that you are in a high mood for your upcoming Buzludja event. Go, do your yelling, yelling, talking, spitting on the political opponent. This is not a policy, it is not an alternative and your captivity said that you are not an alternative to GERB with these proposals that you had made for the development of the country. What is very important to know is that when someone comes out here, from this tribune, and talks about privatisation deals, about privatisation, let's say that these political forces on the right hand side of parliament did not participate in this privatisation and did not participate in the adoption of legislation in the years of transition. [[Replications from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u343	Mr. Jablyanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u344	The first privatization law was passed 1992. The current law was adopted 2002, the Political Party GERB entered the Bulgarian Parliament 2009. All parties that are now forming the parliamentary majority, for the first time in the government. GERB is from 2009, and colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" are currently from 2017. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you are talking about lobbying, colleagues, lobbying is when some parliamentary elections are completed, I give for example 26 March 2017, and on 26 April, one month later, when the new government has to take an oath, a decision of the office for investment expenditure for determining the planes to be bought by the next regular government elected by the Bulgarian Parliament, by people who voted for GERB, and we are responsible. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues from BSP, that's lobbying. Do you understand? Because what has been done to disqualify some of the participants is just to satisfy your own, perhaps economic interests, which have someone who has defended them with the office. When you talk about privatisation, when you talk about the banking sector, wait, there are people here who were involved in the management when the banking system went bankrupt. Mr. Gechev, you were one of those ministers you ruled back then. [[Applause from GERB.]] And because you go out and talk always with such a thing, with such principle and defend your principled position, the only thing we can ask you from the parliamentary majority: stop sending emissaries to the Prime Minister and to the Finance Minister to be elected representative of Bulgaria at the Black Sea Bank in Thessaloniki. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Gechev, please take it simply as a message from the general, where you have been practicing here for several minutes already, but when you go out and talk from this tribune, just remember the period 1996, remember the period when there is a parliamentary majority with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov and sending your emissaries to go to this bank, exactly elected by the parliamentary majority and the government of Boyko Borisov. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] About what lie, Mr. Gechev? To say these words, I have spoken with both the Finance Minister and Prime Minister Borisov and this is their request that they made to express from the parliamentary platform. Thank you for calling me a liar! [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Gechev, you understand that today you had to show another behavior that we showed on Monday before the President's Decree came out? Because on Monday, when we got together with Prime Minister Borisov and when Mr. Kirilov on Monday evening he was ready with the bill that we presented to all journalists on Tuesday when we held the press conference. We could have made an organisation today and achieved a parliamentary majority that would have rejected the president's veto and immediately afterwards tabled the legislative change that would have shown that we were actually strong enough to be able to retaliate. But in politics and in life there must also be recognition of some mistakes that you made by voting. And when you realize that mistake, it's not a crime. And when we are all united in our position to protect the president's veto, we can show that both the presidential institution and the Bulgarian Parliament can be together in the joint efforts to satisfy public interests. Each of us makes mistakes. And this emotion that you have today, this emotion that you are expressing, is based on the final meeting with the United Patriarchs, where a very clear sign was given that the parliamentary majority is stable, even though we have some differences. But we are different parties and we are different people, but we have united behind a management programme which has been adopted since August 2017, and it is implemented with the corresponding economic growth and with the excellent Presidency, which showed that Bulgaria can be the centre of Europe. [[Applause from GERB.]] When we have to take these results into account, when each of us has to contribute to the de-escalation of tensions, this has been claimed by the Conference of Presidents, and Mrs. Nino has also been, we support similar behaviour that all politicians have to show. If we parliamentary groups don't do it, there's no one else to do it. Therefore, honourable Members, let us put an end to this debate, because we all agree that we must comply with the President's veto and we must accept it. If you decide to continue with such behavior, continue, but we will not make any more speeches. I declare on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group that we will comply with the presidential veto, we will continue with what we declared on Tuesday, when we said that we will support it and we will not submit our bill to show some political muscles, which we believe is unnecessary, and this is without absolutely no coefficient of utility. Dear colleagues in BSP, do your best together to reduce this tension and this opposition. Rest assured, the parliamentary majority is stable. We have a four-year horizon for this government. At the moment, the most important thing is that you do not waste your energy, but that you prepare to really be an opposition party that can protect the interests of society, the state and where we can cross into our common political messages, to be together, because that is how politicians must be who think they can protect national interests. If you are not able to do it, continue in the same way, but we, together with the United Member States, would like to thank you for the tolerance that the representatives of the............................ and the representatives of the.......................................... and the representatives of the................................................................................................................................................................. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because I am convinced that there are many people who think the same way, but observing their party discipline as members of the BSP will remain there until the ship sinks. Thank you. [[World and long applause, cries from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u345	You'll have a personal explanation, Professor Gechev. When he's done with the douche bag, I'll give you a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Line, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u346	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Tsvetanov, the deepest request is my cue, don't embarrass yourself, don't make a political asset on the back of other MPs is not honorable! Mr. Spas Panchev has his own understanding, his own political ethics [[GERB noise and lines]] , a political party that represents, and this is a traditional political party. [[GERB lines.]] How will Mr. Spas Panchev be from the BSP? Are you kidding me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u347	Don't engage in dialogue! Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u348	You have obviously lost several decades of Bulgarian political history! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please don't abuse me! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u349	Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u350	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, first of all, I cannot accept that there are reproaches about the behaviour that the parliamentary group has for Bulgaria. The second thing I need to remind you of something you forgot. The conflict about this privatization law did not start with the BSP, it started with the ruling majority. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I believe that all of the majority will agree that this example about the imposition of the president's veto requires substantial amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u351	Here's a personal explanation, Professor Gechev. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria Hole!]] Okay. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u352	Colleagues, thank you for these details, and they don't get away with what I said. There were MPs who supported this legislative change, there was a parliamentary group that was absent from plenary because of 80 MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u353	Seventy-nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u354	I'm sorry about 79 MPs, you were 22. Each of us has made a mistake, and what we should have shown today is that the entire parliament, all parliamentary groups and all MPs will support the president's veto, thereby showing intolerance to any suggestion or interpretations in the public space for protecting MPs for given economic circles. That's what we had to show and we had to do. What I expect in Mr. Gechev's personal explanation, I want to say to him: Mr. Gechev, this is what I heard from the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u355	You're lying! You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u356	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u357	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. For a personal explanation please, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u358	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you've had a very difficult childhood. [[Laughter at GERB. Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I didn't send any emissaries anywhere, but I understand that some people have lost their nerve, which means that my statement has moved you quite seriously. In this regard, as far as the banking system is concerned, I have already explained once and thank you for asking a second time. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, you must have heard that the National Bank is responsible for the banking system, it is called BNB first. Secondly, you personally, Mr. Tsvetanov, went to America and rightly brought as governor of the BNB now, with your votes. Jean Videnov's Deputy Minister of Finance Who? Dimitar Radev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You brought him in, which means you say, "Bravo to the team of the government Videnov!" Next, you re-elected my highly qualified colleague Dimitar Kostov as head of BNB supervision! You! Who is Dimitar Kostov? Minister of Finance of Jean Videnov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u359	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u360	It has to do with... Thank you for your question. You have confessed and you have given an assessment to the government's financial team, so any maliciousness on this matter is pointless. I can take responsibility for being one of those who led and offered the money council, and in this Parliament I defended it in the Economic Commission and in the Budget Commission. My team proposed the Foreign Investment Agency, on which the Bulgarian economy relies. We introduced the Stock Exchange Act, Mr. Tsvetanov. Finally, when you're making accusations, I have to say the one thing I haven't dealt with so far, even though I'm a professor and a doctor of economic science. [[GERB lines: "Eee! "]] I can't figure out how a mother-in-law with 250 leva. A pension buys you six apartments?! [[(Comments from GERB. Claps from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u361	Time's up, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u362	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u363	It's a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u364	A personal explanation of a personal explanation cannot be made!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u365	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u366	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u367	There may be three such procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u368	There will be another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u369	Madam President, I appeal to the MPs who violate the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] God rest her soul, my mother-in-law died three years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u370	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u371	Thank you for what you have done today, because once again you have shown that you are no professor for the majority of the Bulgarian public [[(Applause from GERB, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] , about the time you ruled the Cabinet Jean Videnov. This, in order to lose your temper to insult personally with personal assaults of the MP [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for that, because you're the man who can't defend his thesis...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u372	Where did you get six apartments?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u373	Let me explain, Mr. Gechev. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u374	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u375	Come on, I'll explain. [[Calls MP Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u376	Colleagues, can I have a moment of peace? Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u377	Madam President, honourable Members! There were calls that we could avoid this conversation today, quietly and quietly vote on the president's veto and move on. We could have! We could all be together once again sweeping things under the carpet. There were untruths. We didn't privatize, you privatized... [[Reply from GERB: "This is the truth! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u378	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u379	And you privatized the residual packages for the electricity distribution companies...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u380	Quiet, please, colleagues. Mr. Jablyanov, please don't shout.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u381	Tell them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u382	I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u383	...were sold by the government of Boyko Borisov. There have been calls for tension deescalation, for other behaviors, well, give us an example of how to do this by stopping calling each other: fieldmen, lobbyists, stopping even physically fighting...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u384	It's our business what we call ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u385	What you did today in the Bulgarian Parliament was the bottom of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Deescalate the tension with you at least stop fighting physically. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, the events in recent days related to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act and the culmination today are the brightest example of three things. First, power and money have grown into one! Power and interests have grown into one! In Bulgaria there is a business layer that buys politicians, regardless of which colors and no matter what time. This is not a mistake, fellow Members. It's a model! Those are mistakes for 29 years. The transition model! What we are discussing today is just one example of this model. The second point that today's case shows is that corruption has changed its structure and its pattern of behaviour. Earlier corruption was being chased between officials who took bribes and people who paid bribes. Today, corruption is laid down in the rules of the political class and economic interests together in the laws to be unpunished. Today, with this law, you have set an example that all the anti-corruption bodies that we have adopted so far will not work. There is no anti-corruption body that can capture in corruption either a politician or a businessman who has written a law that protects them. Today corruption is not a crime, corruption has become a norm, a rule and a law written by you. Accept ten more anti-corruption bodies, but you will not deal with corruption, because with one hand you accept organs, with the other you write laws in which you wager corruption. The third conclusion of this discussion is that in politics coalitions are not done for good governance and for the good of the people, they are done for power and money.................we told you two years ago, two years ago you prove it, and today you put the cherry on the cake of this statement. This leadership coalition was not created to implement a programme and policies, but to allocate power and money. This law and the situation today show it to the brightest extent. Finally, colleagues, you are calling on us to correct this mistake. We'll fix it with a vote. We call not only to correct a mistake after a mistake that is deliberate, but to rethink the model, which in 29 years and in which there are no innocents, led Bulgaria to be a disappearing state and a disappearing people, led to being the poorest in Europe, to be the highest mortality rate, to have our children the least educated and so on. This is the great challenge facing us and perhaps not in front of our people, to give this energy and this awakening, which will force us to change this model, which 29 years destroys Bulgaria, for which today's situation is a very vivid indicative example and which, if we do not stop, will lead our country and our people to an even lower bottom. You have a month of August instead of calling us to go to the sea......................... and think about this offer... to change the model and not correct the mistakes. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u386	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. The line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u387	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Ninova, my line is as follows. You are talking about how we, the United Patriarchs, treat each other, what coalition policy was to us. It's our job, you're not in this coalition. It doesn't really concern you. We United Patriarchs can talk, fight, maybe kill each other, but we're real... [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] ...we're not hiding and we're not sneaky about what's on our mouths, we'll say it. What's the problem? You can't do politics like that! Naturally, one party is of one opinion, the other is of another opinion, each defending his position, and that is correct. With us there is no structural preparation.. all as one, because so said the party.. mother, or the party's chairwoman. We have democracy, everyone has the right to an opinion, Mrs. Ninova. The other thing we heard in your conversation is for the support of the oligarchs and so on. You of the BSP now claim, although when these texts were voted in the Chamber, you did not claim anything about how the majority supported oligarchy. If so, then we have supported the oligarchy openly. Then why did you subversively support the oligarchy by not participating in the vote or voting and not speaking? What's more disgusting?! To have a position and to stand up or to hide pleasingly 15 MPs in parliament: three for ten so, one for so. What's worse?! Hiding or standing up for a position, whether it's right or wrong? I think the subversiveness of politics is worse and more disgusting. That makes it your party and your government. [[Applause from the OP. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u388	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u389	We must not give up the historical heritage of each party, and everyone must be responsible for it. I will say just a few sentences in relation to Mrs. Ninova's statement why coalitions are being made, because her definition of coalitions was that they were being made for power, money and so on. The Triple Coalition was made for what?! Maybe for the prosperity of Bulgaria?! The Triple Coalition was led by BSP, by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which was in the triple coalition, in Coalition for Bulgaria and so on, and so on, and this same coalition to recall once again, introduced the antisocial flat tax, which filled the pockets of the oligarchy. This will remain a black spot that cannot be erased from your face, there is no way. [[(Loud noise. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria "Why don't you remove it?"]] There's just no way! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u390	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Third line, Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u391	Dear colleagues, we have really hit rock bottom! We've reached the bottom, but let's stop this. Mrs. Ninova, we can confront each other, we may have different positions, but at least we didn't kill in the 40s the tens of thousands of people who disappeared. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Communicating: "Eee! ")]] Yeah, missing, taken out of their houses, shot in villages and palanquins and dumped in pits. At least we didn't do that! [[Applause from the OP. Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have not done together with our colleagues from GERB and the bankruptcy of the state in your government, and we will not do so, honourable Members. [[Applause.]] Because we have a nationally responsible position and commitment to people's problems and an increase in their well-being. And with your governments, all we see is down, down, down, down, and underwater. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u392	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u393	Dear colleagues! We would have believed that you had a nationally responsible position if today you had been slapping each other, arguing about how much to become a minimum pension and whether you would keep your promise in the program. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u394	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u395	Only today you fought over who protected Private Kiro and who defended Private Tseko. And you say to this thing, "We are of different opinions in politics." [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, you fought over who had to lobby more through the Bulgarian laws and the Bulgarian parliament. As for the coalitions and the style in which you spoke. Colleagues, you certainly haven't understood the appeal we've made to you. Stay at that level! Stay in the past, argue all you want about the past! We propose to our people that we sit down and talk about the future. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Continue to divide Bulgarians against Bulgarians by stepping on the past! Continue to turn Bulgarians against Bulgarians, stepping on the past! We will do otherwise and therefore said that our vision is not an alternative to GERB, it is an alternative to the system, it is an alternative to the model... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u396	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u397	...of this behavior that you are showing today and that you want to continue to confess. Keep going! But that's not the future! That's why we think it's time for this parliament to loosen up. [[crowd cheering and cheering from GERB]] , to have a conversation about the future of Bulgaria and the people [[GERB loud noise]] Outside, among the people, among civil society and this people, to send here other leaders who show him the future and not bring him back to the past with division and hatred! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u398	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for a statement. [[(Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria. Say: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u399	Dear colleagues, Madam President! Ms. Ninova said, listening to one of the leaders' pre-talking and emotionality here, that today some of them seem to have had a few fights, and I think that today I think there might be another a little bit more drunk. [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines. Applause from OP.)]] For the record, if you have to and someone doesn't make it to the end, the ambulance in the sobering room is at the east entrance. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] You're talking, Mrs. Ninova, about an alternative to the transition. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u400	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u401	GERB appeared in 2009 and until... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In parliament, in parliament. But the big transition, the real transition, the criminal transition we're all talking about happened in the past twenty years. Those twenty years ago four times in the country's rule was the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Well, how am I gonna change her? Nineteenth year of the Luca winter "Black, cold, hungry, tails! Do we remember her?! [[Loud noise.]] Falith! Ninety-fourth year, ninety-sixth year, the end of 1994, the greatest government, with the greatest prime minister and the greatest economist Academician, Gechev, an academician in every major disaster in every country. [[Applause from GERB.]] There's no such disaster in the world....20 banks went bankrupt! Robbed the savings of the Bulgarian people! He, the professor, stood by and watched the banks go bankrupt, and today he's praying to go into banks again. How many banks will you go bankrupt, Mr. Gechev?! [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] How long have you been bankrupt?! [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Have a seat! You've been freaking out here for two months, it's because of the bank! Such world economic exits, and when managing the most falsifying country in the world, Bulgaria! Academic Gechev, give it up! [[Loud noise. Applause. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] I'm still hesitating to support the veto. Not because I'm not convinced, but because there's no President. Get him to come over here right now and hear this guy out. Call him! Where's the president? Mr. President, you're not here. [[Loud noise. Applause by GERB.]] Well, it's your veto! And with sympathy for you, Mr. President! Come see your allies and associates how much money they're worth! [[Applause from GERB.]] Come hear their insolence! The day before yesterday, we voted on what we were discussing, and we were moaning, as a remsist of questioning, they were silent, they were gone! The law is passing. Because oligarchy... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u402	Why did you vote for oligarchy the other day...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u403	I wish the president were here. [[(Loud noise. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria: Why did you vote...?)Replicate by the National Representative Rumen Gechev.)]] I don't want academics like you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u404	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u405	Why did you vote? Explain to the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u406	Professor Gechev, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u407	I'll explain. ...to come and hear the insolence of those who plundered Bulgaria because after your bankruptcy, Mr. Gechev...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u408	Which one of my bankruptcys...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u409	...after the stolen savings of the people, after that privatization, after the bankruptcies of the businesses with your faithful employees at the entrances and exits. 1997 the privatization began. If today we look into and draw up the lists of these bankers who became credit millionaires and those who privatized the Bulgarian economy, all of them stem from the former communist nomenclature and agents of the State Security. Every single one of [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wanted to come here to hear the President, if he wants us to make a full revision of the transition, of the privatisation, and then it will be so funny in September, Mr. Gechev, that you will wonder where to hide! [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise.]] I was going to ask him if he was supporting these allies, who apparently, and especially today in the Chamber, perhaps along the diversions they were doing in Strandzha to prevent the fight, the eradication of the plague, maybe someone stepped in, something picked up a little bit of this plague... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria: On the topic! On the subject!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u410	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u411	...but not a little bit, so much has taken hold of this plague that on the 21st Bulgarian Socialist Party announced that it is making a U-turn that I will again change the capitalism that he created... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]] As they say, as one former general once said: "This ugly capitalism, which created our party, will now replace it again with socialism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u412	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u413	I wanted to ask the president... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u414	The theme is the president's veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u415	The theme is: are we going to rebuild that plague system called socialism? That's what I wanted to ask him. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u416	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I re-vote the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 14 July 2018. Vote 187 MPs: for no, against 185, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. [[Private applause.]] The law did not bring together the necessary majority. Colleagues, in this case according to art. 86, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as regards the contested texts of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, the procedure under art. 84 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u417	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! As presented in the Report of the Economic Commission colleagues and proposed in the Chamber, as the condition laid down for item I has been fulfilled, and in the re-voting of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, it was not confirmed by the 121 votes vote, the Members have proposed and I propose to your attention as well as you referred to art. 86, para. 6 of our Rules of Procedure, let's move on to their proposal on the second Roman "to vote on the draft decision." First, § 3 to be rejected. Second, § 4 to be rejected. Third, paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall become paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively. Fourth, § 9 to become § 7 and in it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u418	The number 5 should be replaced by...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u419	The number, but probably the number is meant. Five to replace three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u420	I understand you're making an offer under art. 80, para. 2 to vote directly at second reading, due to lack of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u421	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u422	...proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u423	In the absence of proposals between first and second readings. As well as in the current debate, no claims have been made regarding such a proposal regarding our bill which we presented. We're not offering it. We specifically stated. So please proceed to the vote at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u424	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. First, Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal to go straight to the second vote due to a lack of proposals between first and second readings. Vote 189 MPs: 189, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I move on to the proposal of the Commission, which proposes to the National Assembly to vote. First, not to re-accept the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018 and to discuss the contested provisions. They voted 188 MPs: 188, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, on a proposal from the Commission as point two, I propose that the contested provisions and the related texts be voted on as follows: We are voting first for § 3 to be rejected. We'll vote them for precision one by one. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Second, § 4 to be rejected. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting for paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 to become paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively. Vote 184 MPs: 182, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted. Finally, we vote § 9 to become § 7 and in it the figure 5 to be replaced by 3. Vote 180 MPs: for 179, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, the procedure for re-voting the contested provisions of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 197 of 20 July 2018 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is over. To the President of the Republic of Bulgaria will be sent for promulgation in the Official Journal. The adopted law with the changes made to it, without the rejected texts with both dates of adoption. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCISES AND DANISH CARDS. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u425	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 854-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018, adopted on the first vote on 18 July 2018. Second voting.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u426	Colleagues, please be quiet! Don't move in the hall. Let's move on to business, we have three bills at second reading. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u427	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 1. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In "63." It is a method of measuring the weight of the loaded cargo by calculating the differences in the level of certain points of the vessel's hull before and after loading or before and after unloading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u428	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1, editing on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 71 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u429	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 1 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u430	Introduce us to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u431	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 2 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u432	Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first text is a proposal from the Commission for the removal of § 1 by importer. The second text is a proposal from the Commission for the removal of § 2 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u433	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2 with the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 the number Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u434	Are there any statements in the two paragraphs? [[Heckling]] I'll separate them. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with the wording of the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 79, against 20, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 3 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 102, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u435	According to § 4 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 4 and proposes to reject it. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to reject it. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 6 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u436	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the first text: a proposal by the Commission to reject § 4 by importer; a proposal by the Commission to reject § 5 by importer; and a third text - a proposal by the Commission to reject § 6 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u437	Menda Stoyanova's proposal to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3 with the following wording: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: For the purposes of applying para. 1 the measurement of coke and coal in a port, including through a temporary or customs storage facility, shall be carried out only on import or entry into the territory of the country as follows: 1. the places of entry in the relevant site by means of the method "Draft Server" by an independent inspection organisation holding accreditation for which the relevant document is drawn up; 2. at the places of removal of the object concerned with a mass measuring and control device. (4) In the cases under para. 3, p. 1 at the request of the person, instead of measuring by the method "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for the name of the division and proposes to amend it as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u438	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put the two texts to the vote: the first text They voted 116 MPs: for 96, against 20, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u439	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 7 and proposes to reject it. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4 with the following wording: ............................................ In the Law on Value Added Tax (prom. DV, No. ...) in art. 92, para. 3 t. 3 in front of the words the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme 2014 of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the According to § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 2, which shall enter into force on 1 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u440	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u441	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're going through this bill a little too quickly. It really has nothing, and there is nothing left in it from eight proposed paragraphs, six have been rejected, and some new proposals have been proposed. But I am speaking on a proposal of the deadline and this is the last Paragraph 8. I don't understand what the rush is! I understand that the Law is lobbying for the budget. That's what it was called. But in this haste, I see other interests and other lobbying intentions. Why? Clearly and categorically art. 16 of the Public Finance Act says when taxes can be changed and incomprehensible why in three months should all of us or you who will support it violate the Public Finance Act? Why is that necessary? Who wants it and why should it happen when only less than a year ago, when we voted precisely these texts, then the importers said it could not be from October, but should be from the beginning of the year, as is right. My fellow Members, I call on you not to support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u442	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u443	Because we can't be budget lobbyists if we break the law. We can't make laws here and we can't be the first to break them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u444	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u445	This, colleagues, I believe that we are all obliged to abide by the laws, to show the Bulgarian citizens how they should act. So I call on you not to support this text, because it is lobbying obviously not for the budget, but for something else, and if someone wants someone, he can explain why. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u446	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u447	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Last year, when we adopted the budget, you also violated the Law on Legislative Acts, like...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u448	You were against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u449	No, we were at 4:00, all of us, and we did exactly the same circuses as you do today!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u450	You didn't take anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u451	And when you accepted the budget, and we told you that you are in a hurry and can not adopt such important laws for the country overnight, you have dealt with it in the same way as you have now, and it has come to this day when we are breaking the Public Finance Act again to make another change in the Law on excises, and it is in order that at that time it was unattended and was not read by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u452	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. I will put two texts to the vote: the first text is the Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer; the second text is the creation of § 4 by text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 104 against 8, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I will now put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for the wording of § 8, which becomes § 5. Vote 112 MPs: 81 against 31, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted, which concludes the second vote on this law. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPANIES WITH A SPECIAL INVESTIONAL TARGET Importers are Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the people representative Evgenia Angelova. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u453	The Act for the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Special Investment Purpose Companies (prom., SG No. ...). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: 1, t. 2. (8) At least 70 percent of the gross income for the financial year concerned of a special investment purpose entity for the securitisation of immovable property should be the result of the activity under para. 1, t. 2. (9) The requirements of para. 7 and 8 should be completed within two years of the issue of a special investment purpose vehicle licence for the securitisation of immovable property. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to create § 1a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 4 after the word "supervisory" is added "the Commission" (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee.")
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u454	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote three texts: the first text of the author on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; the second text of the draft version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1; the third text of the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u455	There is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev under § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 Finally, the company intends to participate in the establishment or acquisition of shares or shares in a specialized company under art. 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m., 22 a.m. 2. A t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. rules for risk management in the event that the company participates in the establishment or acquisition of shares or shares in a specialized company under art. 22 a............................................................................................................ Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev under § 3. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: the members of the Board of Directors of the Special Investment Purpose Company as well as the persons authorised to manage or represent the company must have a higher education, professional qualification and experience required to manage the company's activities and not be: According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following 1. In para. 3 shall be added at the end, with the exception of payments in the cases under para. Five o'clock. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. They're creating an al. 5.. In cases where the special investment purpose entity enters into a credit agreement with a bank other than the depositor bank, payments through the bank-creditor may be no higher than those defined by the bank in the credit agreement on the payment account. (6) Within three working days of the conclusion of the credit agreement, the company shall notify the Commission and the depositary bank of the bank-creditor. The notification shall contain at least information on the type, size, currency, interest rate, annual rate of expenditure, credit term, collateral and solidarity debtors, as well as periods of interest payments and principals. The company is obliged to notify the Commission and the depositary bank and any amendment to the contract leading to a change in the information submitted by the sentence first. (7) The special investment purpose company is obliged to provide the depositary bank with information on the use of the loan and its repayment every quarter. (8) The information under para. 7 shall be provided by the 15th of the month following the relevant quarter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u456	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote three texts: the first text......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u457	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer' shall be replaced by the "Commission'; (b) To be created t. 6: It's six. rules for risk management in the event that the company participates in the establishment or acquisition of shares or shares in a specialized company under art. 22 a... 2. In para. 2 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer' shall be replaced by "the Financial Supervision Officer'. 3. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the words the Financial Supervision Officer shall be replaced by the Financial Supervision Officer and shall be replaced by the Financial Supervision Officer. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev under § 6. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 9. Nine. the maximum amount of assets to be invested in specialized companies under art. 22a; (a) (b) 22a; (c) 22a; (d) 22a; (e) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (f) 22a; (g) 22a; (g) 2. Previously on "T." 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u458	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote three texts: the first text: the Commission's proposal for the removal of § 5 by importer; the second text is a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 6 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; and the third text is the text the Commission proposes for the text of § 6 which becomes § 7. Vote 96 MPs: 78, against 18, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u459	There is a proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to create § 6a and 6b. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 8 and 9: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer' shall be replaced by "the Financial Supervision Officer'; (b) c. 1 is added at the end, or has not carried out the activity for which it has been authorised for more than 6 months; c) create a new t. 4 et c. 5. "4." expressly waive the licence issued; 5. has not implemented a compulsory administrative measure under this law, the Law on the Public Offering of Securities or the Act on their Implementation; (d) the so-called t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is It's six. very or systematically violates the provisions of this Act, the Public Offering Act, the Law implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse (the Market Abuse Regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC (OJ L 173/1 of 12 June 2014).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014' or their implementing acts. 2. In para. 2 and 3 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer" shall be replaced by "the Committee." 3. The creation of para. 4. After the entry into force of the decision to withdraw the license to carry out the activity as a special investment purpose company on the basis of para. 1, t. 4, the company may continue to exist as a public limited liability company within the meaning of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission shall forward the decision to the Registry Agency for the deletion of its subject-matter as a special investment purpose entity and to a special investment purpose shareholders company. § 9. Article 2 shall be inserted in Chapter 2. 16a: "Actions related to the withdrawal of the licence at the request of the special investment purpose company Art. 16a. (1) Decision to refuse the licence issued under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 4 shall be taken from the general meeting of shareholders of a special investment purpose company with a majority of three quarters of the subscribed capital. (2) In the case of decision under para. 1 to the shareholders shall be submitted a draft proposal for the redemption of shares according to art. 111, para. 5 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities only under the conditions and under the order of auction offering under art. 149b of the same law. (3) The special investment purpose company shall be obliged within 7 working days of the holding of the general meeting of shareholders, at which a decision under para. 1 to request the Commission to withdraw the licence issued. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 is created sentence two: 2 of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "leading and keeping of accounts and other correspondence and carrying out other necessary activities" shall be deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The special investment purpose company may entrust the holding and keeping of accounts and other correspondence and the carrying out of other necessary activities of a service company. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words the Financial Supervision Officer shall be replaced by the Financial Supervision Officer. According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 are created. 3, 4 and 5: Each owned by the company with a special investment purpose agricultural land within the meaning of art. 2 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, acquired below 50 000 BGN, is estimated at the end of the financial year 5 years after its initial acquisition and every 5 years thereafter if its value continues to be below 50 000 BGN. The agricultural land referred to in the first sentence may be assessed in accordance with para. 1. (4) Agricultural lands for which under para. 3 shall not be assessed at the end of the financial year concerned, shall not exceed a total of 30 per cent of the agricultural land owned by the special investment purpose company. (5) Agricultural land for which under para. 3 has not been evaluated in the previous financial year, shall be assessed prior to its sale under the conditions of art. 19............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u460	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first text of the Commission proposal for the creation of new paragraphs 8 and 9 with a text on a proposal from the Commission, the second text of the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 7, which becomes § 10, the third text of which the Commission proposes for the text of § 8, which becomes § 11, and the fourth text of the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9, which becomes § 12. They voted 102 MPs: 82, none, abstention 20. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u461	According to § 10, there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected. Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to amend § 11. The Commission supports the proposal for § 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: "13." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 is created. 4 The company with a special investment purpose for the securitisation of real estate can invest up to 30 percent of its assets in specialized companies under art. 22a, para. 1. (5) The special investment purpose company for the securitisation of immovable property may invest up to 10 percent of its assets in other special investment purpose companies engaging in real estate. There is a proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to amend § 12. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: It's 14 years old. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 2. In para. 4 shall be added at the end except in the cases referred to in Article 4. 16a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u462	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the first text of the proposal by the Commission § 10 by importer to be rejected, the second text of the version proposed by the Commission in the text of § 11, which becomes § 13, the third text of the version proposed by the Commission in the text of § 12, which becomes § 14. They voted 106 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 24. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u463	A proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to amend § 13. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15. ...... 15.................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22a: Requirements for the establishment or acquisition of participation in a specialized company with exclusive subject-matter of activity Art. 22a. (1) A special investment purpose company for the securitisation of immovable property may participate in the establishment or acquisition of shares or shares in the capital of a commercial company (specialised company) whose exclusive subject-matter is the acquisition of real estate and property rights in real estate, the carrying out of construction works and improvements in order to provide them for management, lease, lease or lease and their sale, provided that the special investment purpose company exercises control over the specialized company within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 14 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. (2) The establishment, acquisition or transfer of a shareholding or shareholding in a specialized company under para. 1 shall be carried out under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 114 and 114a of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, as the exception of art. 114, para. 10 of the same law shall not apply. (3) The specialized company under para. 1 may not participate in the formation or acquisition of shares or shares of the capital of other companies. (4) The shares, respectively the shares of the capital of the specialized company under para. 1 may be held only by special investment purpose companies for the securitisation of immovable property. (5) The specialized company under para. 1 may be based in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State. (6) The specialized company under para. 1 may acquire real estate in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or in the territory of another Member State. (7) The specialized company under para. 1 shall not be entitled to engage in other trade transactions in an occupation other than those referred to in para. 1 and 10. (8) To the activities of the specialized company under para. 1 The provisions of art. 1 shall apply accordingly. 4, para. Art. 7 and 8, Art. 7, 10, 17, 19, 20, 21, Art. 1 and Art. 1 24 and 26, as well as the provisions of art. 114 and 114a of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, as the exception of art. 114, para. 10 of the same law shall not apply. (9) In cases where the real estate acquired by the specialized company under para. 1 shall be located in the territory of another Member State, international valuation standards shall apply to the valuation of those properties. (10) Specialized company under para. 1 may take bank loans only for acquisition and commissioning of real estate up to 70 percent of its assets. (11) The Commission shall carry out checks on specialized companies under para. 1 under the terms and conditions of art. 18 and 19 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to be amended. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." information on compliance with the requirements of art. 4, para. Art. 7 and 8, Art. 21 and 22a; b) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it, the words "the Financial Supervision Officer" shall be replaced by "the Committee." 2. In para. 2, p. 5 and 6 words. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council) of 3. In para. 3 the words "three' and "three' in their annual reports' shall be replaced by "6' and in their annual activity reports as a separate document. 4. The creation of para. 4. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 22a, present in the 6 months and annual reports of their activities as a separate document and financial statements on the activities of the specialized companies. A proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to amend § 15. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end except in the cases referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. In para. 2 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer' shall be replaced by the "Commission'. 3. In para. 3 the words "the Financial Supervision Officer" shall be replaced by the "Commission" and, finally, added "with the same subject of activity." Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev to create § 15a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Article 30 is amended as follows: Forced administrative measures Art. 30. (1) Where it is established that a special investment purpose company, members of the board of its directors, or persons authorised to manage or represent the company, acting or not, violate this law, the Law on the Public Offering of Securities and their implementing acts, decisions of the Commission or of the Vice-President of the Commission, and where the exercise of control activities by the Commission or by the Vice-President of the Commission or the interests of investors is prevented, the provisions of art. 215 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, except for the provisions of art. 212, para. 1, t. 4 and 6 of the same law. (2) Where it is established that the service companies, acting or not, violate this law and its implementing acts, decisions of the Commission or of the Vice-President of the Commission, and where the exercise of control activities by the Commission or by the Vice-President of the Commission or the interests of investors are jeopardised, the provision of art. 212, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. (3) When it is established that specialized companies under art. 22a, acting or not, violate this law, the Law on the Public Offering of Securities and the Acts on their Implementation, decisions of the Commission or of the Vice-President of the Commission, and where the exercise of control activities by the Commission or by the Vice-President of the Commission or the interests of investors are jeopardised, the provision of art. 212, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u464	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the first text, which the Commission proposes in the text of § 13, which becomes § 15, the second text, which the Commission proposes in the text of § 14, which becomes § 16, third text, the wording of § 15, which the Commission proposes, which becomes § 17, and the following text, the proposal to create a new § 18 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 83, none, abstention 23. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u465	Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to be amended. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become §19. "Seriously, I'm Article 31 is amended as follows: Administrative criminal liability Art. 31. (1) Whoever commits or authorises infringement of: 1. Articles 17, 25 and 26, para. 2, is punished with a fine of 1000 to 4000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. Article 3, para. Art. 3, Art. 4, para. 2, 3, 4 and 5, Art. 5, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 8, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 12, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 26, para. 1, 3 and 4 is punished with a fine of 4,000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. Article 4, para. Art. 6, Art. 9, Art. 6, para. Article 7 (1) (b) 9, para. 2, 3, 5 "8." 10, 15, 16a, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, art. 22a and 23 is punished with a fine of 10 000 to 20 000 leva. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the fine is respectively in double size. (3) For violation of para. 1 a penalty shall be imposed on legal persons and sole traders as follows: 1. 1 from 2000 to 10 000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 4000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times ct. 2 - from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 times c. 3 - from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40,000 to 60 000 BGN. (4) In the event of failure to comply with an enforced administrative measure under art. 30 perpetrators and prisoners are punished with a fine ranging from 2000 to 10 000 BGN. (5) For violation of para. 4 legal persons and sole traders are subject to a penalty from 4000 to 20 000 BGN. (6) The acts for the detected infringements shall be drawn up by officials authorised by the President of the Commission and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the President of the Commission. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to be amended. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "Trade Act" shall be replaced by "the Law of Trade." 13 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 2. They're creating a t. 6, 7 and 8: It's six. In the event of three or more administrative infringements of this law, the Public Offering of Securities Act, the Act implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 or their implementing acts within one year. 7. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union or another State of the European Economic Area Agreement. 8. The International Assessment Standards are the standards adopted by the International Assessment Standards Council, London, the United Kingdom. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In the other texts of the Law, the words "the Financial Supervision Officer" shall be replaced by "the Commission." "Transitional provision." Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u466	Thank you, let's stop at transitional and final provisions. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the following tests: the first text, which the Commission proposes for the text of § 16, which becomes § 19; the second text, which the Commission proposes for the text of § 17, which becomes § 20; the third test, the proposal to create a new § 21 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the fourth text, the proposal of the Commission to amend the name of the division in Transitional and Final Provisions. They voted 103 MPs: 82, none, abstention 21. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u467	According to § 18 the proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Special investment firms authorised and operating until the entry into force of this law shall bring their activities and assets into compliance with its requirements within 18 months of its entry into force. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... Paragraph 8, t. Article 1 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u468	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put two texts to the vote: the first text, which the Commission is proposing, in the wording of § 18, which becomes § 22; the second text, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 22. The proposals are accepted. With this we concluded the adoption of the bill at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND READING OF THE LAWPROECT FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX, No 854-01-44, submitted by the National Representative Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present to us Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u469	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I present the Report at second reading, I ask for a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u470	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u471	Dear Mr. Chairman! On 22 May 2018, Mr. Kostadinov submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 854-01-44, submitted by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 20 June 2018. Name of the act: the draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by MP Krum Zarkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article According to § 1 of the Report a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Article 113 is amended as follows: "Requests of and against users" Art. 113. The claims of and against users shall be brought before the court in whose area the current address of the consumer is located and, in the absence of a current address on the permanent address. Under § 2 "Contributor text." There's a proposal from the MP Cyril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The claim for compensation under the Code on the Insurance of the Disabled Person against the Insurance, Guarantee Fund and the National Bureau of the Bulgarian Motor Insurance Company shall be brought before the court in which the current or permanent address of the applicant, its registered office, or at the place of the event in question is present at the time of the occurrence of the insurance event.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u472	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. I put the following texts to the vote: the first text of the applicant for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; the second text of the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 1 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the third text of the text which the Commission proposes for the text of § 1, which becomes § 2; and the next text of the text of the text which the Commission proposes for the text of § 2, which becomes § 3. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u473	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. By § 3 "Contributor' text. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words the court is replaced by the first hearing in the case. 2. A new para is being created. 3: supposed to be insubordination of the case under art. 108, para. Art. 2, Art. Article 113 115, para. 2 may be made by the defendant at the latest within the time limit for replying to the application and shall be filed by the court in office until the first hearing in the case is closed. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1. s 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. The legal proceedings pending until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the order so far, irrespective of the change of the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u474	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the first text, which the Commission proposes, for the text of § 3, which shall become § 4; the second text, the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Transitional and final provisions'; and the third text, a proposal from the Commission to create § 5, with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u475	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 144 words, except for Art. 61, para. 2 is replaced by the following: Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets (GB, No. 105 of 2016) In § 54 of the transitional and final provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u476	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u477	Dear Mr President, I would like to take the floor of speech with regard to § 7 to make an amendment in the following sense: § 7 of the Report to be amended as follows: .................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets (GB, No. 105 of 2016), the following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In § 50, all the words "september 1st 2018," shall be replaced by "January 1st 2020," shall be replaced by "September 1st," and shall be replaced by "January 1st." 2. In § 52, para. 5 the words "september 1st 2018," shall be replaced by "January 1st 2020," shall be replaced by "September 1st." 3. In § 54, the words "September 1st 2018," shall be replaced by "January 1st 2020," shall be replaced by "January 1st." This is the editorial proposal, honourable Members. In a nutshell: this amendment is necessary and was further incorporated within the framework of the bill adopted at first reading, because in order to implement the drafts of the Registry Agency, the deadlines that we had discussed and set for 1 September 2018 have to be extended. For this reason, and after consulting the Ministry of Justice and the Registry Agency, we have made this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u478	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u479	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Members have asked for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u480	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new § 7 with a proposal for an amendment made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. They voted 125 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 42. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u481	Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 1 and § 6 which shall enter into force on 1 September 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u482	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u483	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Given that this is the last day of the plenary for the summer session, this, I would say, a key, serious bill went through this fast vote at second reading, but I would like to point out a few things. Firstly, this bill shows that both opposition and government can work together and think together. Here we have complicatedly crossed our legislative initiatives, we have taken a decision and you have just voted for four major changes in the order of many civil cases and for the unloading of Sofia City Court and Justice in Sofia. I would like to express my admiration for the courage of BSP colleagues. We had also proposed this bill in October. I'm glad that after eight months, it's a fact. I hope that the consequences will be entirely positive, including those who have suffered from all kinds of accidents that would seek compensation for their harm. I also thank the Justice Department, which led the work on this bill. Our initiative has practically brought some of the problem out of the task force's field. Thank you to Deputy Minister Ahladova. I see you can't wait, colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]] And thank you for your patience and participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-26.u484	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You made a very clever statement before the vote. Colleagues, I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next regular plenary session is at 9.00 on 27 July 2018 under the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
