ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u1	Colleagues, there's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: for 139, there is no objection, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Communication: Under the Fiscal Council Act and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an opinion was received by the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the budget for state social security for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are continuing with the debate on item 5th of the Programme, which has been voted on to be item 1 for today: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES WITH REGARD TO THE PRACTICE AND PLANNED SALE OF THE COMPANIES OF CEZ GROUP IN BULGARIA AND PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION. It was introduced by the Temporary Commission on 11 May 2018. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Commission report was presented, today I present: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. 2. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria should carry out an in-depth analysis on the implementation of the government's objectives in the adopted Strategy for Privatization of the electricity distribution companies in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision No 426 of 11 June 2003 and approved by the National Assembly on 29 July 2003. The subject of the analysis and evaluation should be the technical, economic and social parameters achieved. Done at Brussels, 31 December 2018. 3. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to revise the PMS No 181 to define the strategic sites and activities that are relevant for national security. Done at Brussels, 31 December 2018. 4. Security services should provide a detailed analysis of their actions on the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria with regard to timely and qualitative information to the competent authorities of the executive. The analysis shall be made available for discussion to the Parliamentary Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. 5. The Bulgarian National Bank should provide in due order the National Assembly with information about the financial commitments made by Bulgarian banks regarding the upcoming deal with Inercom Bulgaria. This is the solution project. As I said yesterday, the report is signed with a special opinion of 10 of the Commissioners. The draft decision was adopted by 9 votes "for" and 2 votes "abstained." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot has been said in recent days and weeks about the deal with CEZ and the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. It aimed to answer several questions which created reasonable tensions in Bulgarian citizens on the fact that no one is known and until recently a non-existent company decided to buy one third of the electricity distribution in Bulgaria, which serves more than 3 million people and most of our manufacturing enterprises. The Commission was aiming to answer several questions. First of all, did the government know about the deal being prepared and what measures had it taken? Remember when the scandal broke out, the prime minister said he first found out about this deal from CEZ's press release at the end of February, according to which CEZ's buyer was elected Inercom. In order to determine whether this is the case, the Commission invited the security services to explain what they worked on on the occasion of CEZ's long-standing desire to leave the country. It has been established that the services have regularly submitted information in which it has been clearly monitored: the various candidates, their reasons for refusal, their reasons for participation and so on. Therefore, the finding in the Report which was read to you yesterday is that what the Prime Minister said was not in line with the fact that he and his subordinates received regular information about what was happening in CEZ. This is a first and important finding. It fits into the general chaotic and quite unexplained behaviour of the government in the first days after the transaction took place. This is also noted as a finding in the Report which was read. The second question that was raised before the Commission was to establish: what are the sources with which the company, which obviously does not have its own funds, will finance such a huge deal? Here we asked the banks, for which the Prime Minister again with a document which he entered here in the Secret Office, explained that there is a possibility of participation. Most banks didn't answer our question by hiding behind professional secrecy. The only Fibank to make its interest clear and clear. Here is the question: why are the banks ashamed to say that they had relations with the CEZ candidate? Is that not prestigious to be involved in a deal of this magnitude? What's bothering them? But a bank is more interesting than anything, because it is a state bank for development. According to the management's account, the Bank had correspondence on the deal being held, and this correspondence was expressed in that the company "Inercom" asked the Bulgarian Development Bank: whether it would possibly be interested and the Bulgarian Development Bank replied that this would possibly be possible. The point is that the correspondence carried out in letters itself was not provided to us. It was defined by Stoyan Mavrodiev as a legal nothing. However, this legal nothing may have served as a document with which Ginka Varbakova and the company "Inercom" applied for the purchase of CEZ and which largely influenced the decision to be chosen as a buyer. Why was this letter not provided with which the Bulgarian Development Bank is interested? What kind of professional secret is one that can be told but cannot be shown?! What kind of behavior is that you can explain to us what a letter says, but it cannot be shown itself?! Therefore, as a recommendation in the Report and I hope that it will fall into the Decision, the National Assembly must request this correspondence, because this is the state participation in this deal and we should be aware whether there was one, under what conditions and why. Moreover, it was clear from a letter received by the Vice-Director of CEZ in the Commission that sufficient data on origin had been provided for CEZ, the sources of the funds by which Inercom will finance the transaction. We ask: is this legal nothing, determined by Stoyan Mavrodiev, part of the documents with which the source of funds has been proven or not? And that question is essential. Inercom itself was invited to a hearing. According to her consultants, as Mrs. Varbakova herself has not pleased to come, funds to finance the deal will still be sought! We ask: how is it possible to prove the origin of funds at the end of last year, of funds that are yet to be sought?! It's not just a logical task, it shows that everything in this deal looks like a big lie. The third question that was asked: was there any possibility that the Bulgarian state, a government, could intervene at different times and satisfy CEZ's desire to leave the country by purchasing their business? We were answered by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister with a letter of intent. They say hard.. neither with the government, nor with the Prime Minister, nor with any individual minister in their opinion were such talks. Okay, except the CEZ tells us the exact opposite in a letter of intent in black and white there is written that from 2013 until now... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u5	Please be quiet in this Chamber, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u6	...all governments, including this, have been offered to buy CEZ's business and our country has been completely disinterested. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we often hear the question: who is behind Ginka Varbakova and Inercom? One thing is certain is that they are planted persons, but who is behind them was also the Commission's goal. I do not know if we will be able to respond with names, but it is certain that behind these people and behind this company is the ugly face of the political and economic situation in Bulgaria, where everything abnormal is possible and nothing normal can happen, because everything is backstage, everything is fog [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] And this fog is currently endangering the power supply of 3 million people and a huge part of our country's economy. We are facing a serious test, we, as Parliament, and society as a whole: are we going to let this scandal go on for two weeks, or are we going to unravel it to such an extent that it can no longer happen because today is CEZ, tomorrow is all Bulgaria?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are looking at a Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria, which for two months held five meetings and made great efforts to fulfil the tasks assigned to it by the National Assembly, for which I would like to thank the President of the Commission and all members for the active participation, constructive reasoning and proposals of all participants. From the very beginning in February following the public reaction, the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was clear and principled according to the legislation in force on non-interference in a trade deal between two entities. Trying to appeal to the public's reaction and to take political dividends out of this, both ruling and opposition have begun to make chaotic and immense actions that so far have not led to anything constructive and rational, but even the opposite has created a prerequisite for other actions in the future against the national interest of these companies. In the process of the Commission's work and evidently from the statements of the representatives of the Council of Ministers changed the intentions of the State to participate in this deal until the firm opinion of the Bulgarian State is in any way not to participate in the acquisition in part or in full, in the starting and not concluded a deal on the ownership of the assets of CEZ in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This, for its part, confirms once again the consistent and principled position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the adequate behaviour in relation to the legal norms in force in the country. By finishing, I would like to stress that not only in this case, but also in many other similar ones that we have seen so far, the current government is working in an inert and chaotic way and is on the principle of a mistake and without a sense of political responsibility, without any coalition compatibility of the programmes in this important and relevant to all Bulgarian citizens sector. This is a sufficient reason not to support the Commission's report. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Are there any other speeches on the Commission report? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Elhan, I think you are here. Yes, in your honor, I will try to speak in a measured and unchaste manner, as you have quoted both the opposition and the government as saying that they have behaved immensely and chaoticly. My fellow Members, I would like to address the problem and the work of the CEZ Commission from the very beginning, and if you decide all of you, let us adopt this Project for a solution which Mr. Boychev made. It is about the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria and I am surprised by the disinterest, including people in the Chamber, including at this time on such an important issue. What happened within a month between the beginning of March and the beginning of April to turn 180 degrees the position of the Bulgarian state? Why is it that the Commission has not done its job, that there has been no need for this Commission, purposefully and unconventionally, to suggest that it has not done its job? Yes, you do. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Well, you, Mr. Lazarov, because I see you're calling from the spot... Madam President, please give him an immediate remark from this colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u11	I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u12	...you know very well who insinuates him, including media that I don't want to say who they're close to. [[Reply: to who?]] Next to you! That's in response to a question from place. I'd say the exact opposite. The Commission has done its job well, at least because of the fact that from now on such transactions will be viewed under a magnifying glass and no compromises as have been allowed in this case. What do I mean? Who's lying right now? [[Reply.]] Madam President, if this is how we're going to talk to the people of this House, not through you, I...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u13	Mr. Velkov, you are constantly entering into dialogue with the Chamber and there is no way to control the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u14	I'm not going in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u15	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u16	There's no answer without question. Someone in the room says who? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u17	Please continue in line with the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u18	Dear colleagues, in early March, the owner of the contender for the purchase of CEZ appeared at a meeting at the Council of Ministers, invited by the Prime Minister. After the meeting she went down and there were two studios around her, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, who supported her morally, I suppose. She said in their presence, I quote: Tomorrow I am going to Prague, where I will talk about the participation of the Bulgarian state in the deal. How is this going to happen? A Lord knows, given that the Bulgarian state will participate through a private entity in the talks about such a deal without an ambassador, without a commercial representation, without foreign affairs. This is a separate issue. Just a month later, at the second meeting of the Commission, here in the Chamber Mr. Goranov most unexpectedly stated that the Bulgarian state has no interest in this deal. I don't ask: who lies and when? I ask: who is not telling the truth in this case? Mr. Zarkov mentioned the work of the services, and there is also a proposal from Mr. Boychev on this matter. In 2010, honourable Members, notice "eight years ago, one of the Bulgarian intelligences picked up the first signs of attempts to leave the Balkan energy market, not on the Bulgarian market, on the part of CEZ and has since regularly prepared information materials with a consumer, the Council of Ministers. Who got them? It's a separate matter, it's all proven. No one has paid attention or cared about these materials and has given no indication whether to continue the work of expanding the information and crossing unregulated attempts at the transaction in question. In 2014, another Security Service. In the case of Bulgarian counter-intelligence, established a development in intentions and began to prepare information materials and so by autumn 2017, including for potential participants, I think there were seven of them in this deal. My question is the complicated relationship between the state and the special services. We pass laws here, we vote budgets, and who, as appropriate, uses the information from the special services? If it were used as appropriate, we would not be debating this issue right now. The Bulgarian Development Bank, note that I would describe it as a soft one to say insolence to the Commission that there is a correspondence between it and the company, that is, a request and a return of a document and then tells the Commission: because of the conditions of professional secrecy we cannot give you the information you require. What professional secret in front of Bulgarian MPs, honourable colleagues? This is an insult to everyone here present in the Chamber. We have a secret record, if this storonist of professional secrecy is a professional, he will know that this document can be brought with the appropriate griff and received in this proceedings. This is it, Mr. Lazarov, when you asked: who is interfering with the work of the Commission? Those who do not give the necessary information and therefore the proposals are reasonable. I call on you to support them "Bulgarian National Bank" to give the requested information. Not to mention that I have little doubt, not a little, but a lot already, that this deal will happen because no one is financing an entity of unexplained origin of capital and intentions. Five times we asked Inercom: what is your own capital, after you say you will invest between 25 and 30%? They couldn't explain it. Tell me who's funding you? They couldn't explain it. Dear colleagues, if they do not know in this House, to tell everyone that we are talking about nearly half a trillion euros. Nearly half a trillion euros! Since this is not about buying price, it is about investments, costs and so on. Thanks, I'm finishing up, I'm going to support the proposals and maybe we should ask ourselves the question again: who is behind this deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! This committee had to give some simple answers: who buys, and in this regard who finances and where the funds come from? This answer is due not to the MPs, but to the Bulgarian society. Obviously we do not have a clear answer and from this we can conclude on the basis of the refusals of state authorities to give information to the MPs that this is a tragedy for the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Republic. Such an attitude towards the MPs is an insult to the Bulgarian society. This insult cannot go unnoticed because it does not start and ends with this committee. At the very beginning, colleagues, you introduced us to a woman and I say that you presented it to her because this woman, who made fools of the entire Bulgarian people, could not read smoothly, and asked for convincing the entire Bulgarian people that this woman buys assets of such value without having the necessary experience without the necessary funding. Dear colleagues, this cannot go on. If you deceive the opposition, you cannot fool the entire Bulgarian people and this will come out sooner or later. Personally, I have concerns, and they after this committee are even greater, that if Bulgaria and I accept that Bulgaria is really in the first places on corruption in Europe, this corruption generates incomes and these incomes, and these dark, gray funds are going somewhere. In my opinion, they go to offshore areas and at some point start to return to the Bulgarian economy. And that is why there is no easy way to answer the question: who buys CEZ, because there is no way to tell where this money comes from, and it comes from exactly corruption. Corruption does not generate anyone, but generates politics at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that as a last point, this report can end with the words: what you read does not really tell you anything, so you might as well not read it. However, we cannot close our eyes and not acknowledge the huge work that was carried out by the Temporary Commission by all the collaborators, by the lawyers, by all of us, as members, and especially by Mr. Boychev. We have all made great efforts to get this report to the House and to the people, to give answers, however, which we had in advance. All these answers to the questions set out in the objectives of the report, we received from the beginning before the Commission was formed by all the services. We from Volja. We supported with a special opinion. I will explain why a little later. Mr. Zarkov just mentioned that one of the main objectives of this committee was to determine whether the government knew about the intentions and the course of this deal. For us, from Volja. And I think that for people as well, it is most important to find out whether the future buyer has enough experience and a cent to manage this large company so that national security is not jeopardised. The other important answer we had to receive is: will the Law be violated with the financing of this deal? Either way, we didn't get the answer to those for us more important questions. I do not know what the objectives of both the government and the opposition with the Temporary Commission were, but what we have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, is: we have cleared entirely Mrs. Varbakova's name, and they have been produced by intelligence, by DANS, KZK, KEWRC, NRA and who else. All we have to do is ask for an opinion of the Holy Synod, and I think we can can canonize it. I don't really know if that was also the general goal of government and opposition?! In my opinion, now that we have adopted the report, the KPC will decide as soon as possible that there is no reason to stop this deal, and everyone, as one colleague said yesterday, will slap our hands and we will embrace each other. Why did we at Volja.. support with a special opinion..? We felt that this report should be supported without a particular opinion, as he did his job and the goals that were set for him, with the clear awareness in advance that there is nothing more to happen. We supported it with a particular opinion and because in the working group in which the main moving figures were Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Boychev, and in my presence a very good consensus was achieved. I dare say for all those who were not present in the Commission and in the working group that there was a tolerant dialogue. Thanks to Mr. Boychev's dialogue, all discussions went through. In the working group was adopted a point with full consensus between Mr. Boychev, me and Mr. Nikolov. Strangely, however, then in the committee itself this point dropped with the same consensus. I'll allow myself to read it to you as it was in the work version before it dropped out. Its absence is actually the reason why we from Volja....to sign with a special opinion. The text is as follows: the Minister of Energy to propose to the National Assembly criteria on which the KEWRC will exercise control over the transfer of shares and shares of the capital of energy enterprises, according to art. 21, para. 1, t. 23 of the Energy Act. In the Commission Mr. Lazarov pointed out the arguments that are justified against this point, but it is strange why both Mr. Boychev and Mr. Nikolov did not really explain what the idea was to put this point in the Report. When we discussed this point in particular in the working group, we wondered precisely because of the arguments Mr. Lazarov pointed out, who should be charged with this: whether the Ministry of Energy, gave the Council of Ministers, gave the KEWRC, gave the Commission? And the idea was that the Minister of Energy, as the most aware in the field of energy at his discretion, should be subjected to a public debate, whether it will also be supported by the active participation of the KEWRC, should provide guidance, should provide some criteria on which the KEWRC can assess the possibility of being rejected or stopped a future deal of more than 20% in the transfer of capital. If these methods, which the Minister would suggest, are justified, be recognized by a group or by a Member of the National Assembly and enter in the proper manner to be voted and become part of the Energy Act. We heard in the Commission that there was serious work to be done under the Energy Act, and a few months later, a draft amendment to this law would be laid down there. That's great, but until then, there's plenty of time. What happened to the request of the United Patriarchs who said: "We are introducing this amendment so that it can enter into action and influence the CEZ deal at the moment? " How can it affect the CEZ deal, honourable Members, if the KEWRC do not have criteria? I'm asking! Apart from all of us here, although no one is saying it, especially colleagues from the Energy Commission, both from the opposition and from the government, know that this amendment, especially this article with which the KEWRC should determine whether a deal is going to happen, is an underprivileged one, and it cannot work! The only option that gave me any hope that this could still work is to create criteria. Again, I do not know what these criteria will be, which would stop the deal with CEZ, provided that now and the National Assembly will rule that there is no reason for this deal to be stopped. I don't know, but I was hoping my colleagues from the United Patriarchs would shine with the criteria?! This is the reason why, as I said, we support with a particular opinion. He needs to be supported because he did his job. What we have achieved in the end is that we have completely cleared Mrs. Varbakova's name and we can Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Your speech sparked a line. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, you started your statement that we all knew what you read in the Report. Then you said it wasn't exactly true, and you asked questions that you thought didn't have answers in the report. I'll give it to you. You asked: do they have the capacity of Inercom to run this company? Report, page 37: Inercom Bulgaria....does not meet any of the criteria Bulgaria has set as requirements for investors in 2004 for the privatisation of the same sector. When you ask what are these criteria that can be figured out, these are for example. You ask: is there financing of the deal and is it clear? In the Report on page 37, a little further down: The representatives of Inercom Bulgaria have not explained how and where they will provide the necessary funds for the purchase of the company of CEZ Group, and later you have the answers of the banks. We canonized Mrs. Ginka Varbakova?! In the Report from page 17 to page 21, more than four and a half hours is the list of files brought to the prosecutor's office, where the names of Mrs. Varbakova, her relatives and companies appear. If this is canonization, we have a completely different understanding of the canon. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u26	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, my coat will be brief. After this report, do you think anything will change and there will be no deal thanks to him?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any other statements? It was requested by Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u28	I'll ask the group's time to be extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u29	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are looking at a report here, I understand the desire of the ruling majority to be neglected, to be covered, to be done so that it is not interesting for the Bulgarian citizens. My fellow Members, unfortunately, this report has sufficiently severe findings. They can't be hidden. In practice, two general conclusions can be drawn from the Report. Firstly, that this report is a humiliation for everyone present in this House, for each Member of the National Assembly, because what is written in it is proof that this institution is being pushed very seriously towards the bottom. It is not normal, it is not okay for different institutions - it was the Bulgarian National Bank, it was private institutions, it was the Prime Minister, not to respect the National Assembly institution, not to appear on committees, not to explain what was happening. The other general conclusion is that the state has totally abdicated the total abdicate from the agenda of society, from the most serious problems! Because one report, one deal that concerns national security, the Prime Minister doesn't show up to explain how and why this government changes its position in half an hour, once we get into the deal, once we don't get into the deal?! If this isn't a betrayal of national interests, say hello! Believe me, he could have found time between soirees and hugs with foreign leaders to come and respect this institution, because in this report there are extremely ugly findings that cannot be covered up. This means that different structures, different services somehow fed information, said there was something wrong. This information continues to move to today's date in this direction. No one reacts, even more today, and the parliament does not react. I don't understand why the government doesn't even take the floor to say something to justify why such findings are contained, but are trying to neglect them?! It is not normal here to record that a company and its related persons are present as Christmas toys in all the prosecution's reports related to corruption and whatnot, and we should close our eyes. And here to say, "There's nothing wrong with the whole thing, Mrs. Varbakova will become the owner of CEZ?"! Do you understand the nonsense of everything that's going on? Colleagues, do not let this institution become the most unpleasant thing in the country. The report and its decisions must become the basis of a future parliament's behaviour and it must take the place provided for it under the Constitution. Don't destroy the Constitution, colleagues! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! We must turn with recognition to what Members of the Commission have invested in the short term. I was involved in the work of the Commission. You've done a lot of work. But what are the conclusions, and what are the facts? The conclusions and facts, the more they entered matter, the more comprehensive they became and more significant not only for the case itself, but they became symptomatic of where we came from and what we were doing, what we are doing now and where we are going. I'm saying this very responsibly, and I'm offering you my reading of the Report. Anyone can read the chronology, anyone can get to know the facts. They're well represented. My reading is as follows, fellow Members! He has conclusions and recommendations, if you will, to ourselves. The CEZ case is a diagnosis of state, political power and business. This is the epicrisis of the lack of a state, of the scale of the parallel state, or as I often call it, a little harshly, the wise man, fellow Members. This is an X-ray of state institutions that have fallen into stupor and amok from long-standing emptiness of content. I'm not talking, notice, about individual governments, cabinet and political forces. I'm serious. I speak a little more frequently in time, if you will, from the beginning of the transition in Bulgaria. When and where, honourable Members, have we understood and united that the state after the privatisation process will have nothing to do with the regulation, control and protection of its own strategic interests? Never, for no reason! This is a verdict on the withdrawal from the public interest, the strategic goals of a nation, the protection of citizens and their replacement, colleagues, with the interest of groups, friends, and circles close to power. If you will, follow the 2003 trial so far. This is the sign that gives us this case. I call it the affair. But who suggested that this is the good, the constructive, and the useful in these years? Compared with the current state of affairs with the energy and privatization of 2003, I would like to draw the following conclusions: then the requirement for 700 million euros of own, proven capital is replaced by the possibility now a newly created company with 50 000 BGN. and without any idea of such an investment scale being the preferred candidate. The requirement of no less than 7000 gigawatt hours of distribution of electricity in 2003 through its own networks in 2018 was replaced by the parking lot in front of Pazardzhik municipality. This is replaced as a criterion. The need to have an international credit rating of 3B plus is now replaced by having serious checks at the D.A.'s office, the investigation, the NRA and the IRS. And the clear ban on any offshore companies being involved in the investment package is now replaced by the fact that neither Mrs. Varbakova nor the services nor anyone else has been able to tell us what the origin is, where these funds are obviously not in possession of. Against this background, honourable Members, and with this I am finishing, the institutions are silent, the regulatory authorities are turning their heads to the other side, the banks are hiding behind something like a professional and ethical code, not even a bank secret, the services are being distracted, the government is being justified, and the National Assembly is not thinking of providing any information, even the smallest. Who am I, fellow Members? Who are you? Who are we? What is the National Assembly? Where are we going and where are we taking our country? This is my reading of the Report and its results. This is the unwritten report of the retreating state of the interests of society and citizens! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to his statement. Is there another statement? Are there any other statements? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u34	I have been waiting for one of my fellow Members from the other parliamentary groups to take part in this matter. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The findings in the Report are sufficiently clear. What do I take the floor for? This deal is an example of how institutions operate in the country. And if the report describes the behavior of the Bulgarian government, which did not know anything, it means either that it is lying to us about it, or that the other is not where it belongs. But we're staying out of it, too. We remain aside his confused position from participation in the deal to withdrawal and there is no commitment of the State to this transaction between private entities. However, we are going to the work of the services and I hope that the draft decision will be supported in this part, because the big question that stands is: what is the point of financing the services, and essentially the information that we want from them, does not serve to make these decisions? Because if there are no answers in the Report of a number of questions, that is because of the questions we have asked, from the competent institutions, we have not received the necessary information. And the big question I will ask it and when, life and health, we accept the country's budget here: why do we need special services and why should we finance them so much when there is no information on who is behind a deal and what is financing? The big constitutional question that stands is: from whom does the authority in the country originate and in the name of whom is this authority exercised? The power stems from the people and the Bulgarian National Assembly is a representative expressor of the will of the people. Therefore, in a firm way, I do not accept the allegations that information can be withheld from the Bulgarian people's representation, and indeed this is humiliating for the National Assembly, by all kinds of terms and techniques.................................................................................... But this is where the Bulgarian government is elected, isn't it? This is where special services are reported, isn't it? Isn't this where the financial regulators come in? Isn't this where the financial regulators are chosen? I mean, I'm particularly sensitive to the Development Bank because it's the state bank. And the Minister of Economy has made a commitment here in Parliament that he will send this report. And the only question I can ask at the moment is: after he took this commitment and still this letter about the commitment to the Inercom transaction is gone. Well, who actually runs the country? And the answer to this can be given in the following way either the resignation of Mr. Mavrodiev or the resignation of the Minister of Economy, because this document is not in the National Assembly, although it was resolicited and was promised by the Minister. And if today we can dispel any doubts, we must support these decisions in the Report and ask for this information, as Mr. Zarkov said to show that normal functioning in this country! To show Bulgarian citizens that we can put an end to this corruption environment in which everything is possible and such types of transactions can be realized! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Mr. Ramadan Attalay has the word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the activities of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria ended its activity with a Report which is public, which has sufficient information. Ever since the Commission was formed, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have expressed our doubts that this Commission will be effective enough and will be able to give those answers to the questions that society expects. The Commission's task was to carry out an analysis on the privatisation of the majority capital of the electricity distribution companies and post-privatization control, as well as the degree of implementation of the objectives of the adopted in 2003. The strategy for privatisation of the electricity distribution companies, and the second was all the circumstances concerning the planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria, information about the buyer, the origin of the funds that are intended to implement the deal, what were the actions of the Bulgarian institutions with regard to their duties, or as they have been talking here since the morning, to clarify who is behind the company Inercom. Indeed, colleagues, I can tell you that the Commission is working hard. However, even with the Prosecutor General, the question to which we, the people's elects today, should be answered is whether the Commission, with its analyses, conclusions and proposals, has achieved its objectives, although the President, my respects to him, has done everything possible to have dialogue, finally, colleagues, we are currently staying in the National Assembly's annals a document that is manipulative, with our conclusions. As a member of this committee, I find that the task of collecting, systematizing and analyzing the necessary materials and for all the meetings that have been made, my congratulations, but finally in the conclusions and proposals, the essence of the task put forward creates a sense of idle working time consumption and unnecessary public energy expenditure and, which is seen today in the Chamber itself, there is no energy whatsoever, there is no need for what happened on 28 February. Colleagues, as I said, there are findings in the report and conclusions that are too controversial. I'm gonna focus on some findings. I do not accept a finding that in contrast with the other European countries, Bulgaria has done ahead of action in privatisation before the creation of the necessary reformed environment, the report said. I will just remind you that the privatisation of the electricity distribution companies was carried out in the presence of a regulatory committee, adequate legal and regulatory framework and with this peculiarity that it took place declaratively, on the recommendation of the World Bank and under the strong condition reform in the energy sector against preferential energy credit PAL 2. Moreover, for this purpose, the roadmap proposed by the World Bank was declarative and it required an increase in the investment attractiveness of companies with a number of their criteria: the consolidation of distribution companies, the declarative increase in the price of electricity, the freedom to determine the structure of the investment portfolio. No restrictions were introduced in the own funds approach which allowed privatizers to reinvest up to 95% of equity at a rate of return 16% instead of an average interest rate of around 2,5%. On top of that, there were two strategies: one strategy for privatisation, the second strategy for energy. And in the energy strategy itself, the colleagues who wrote the report, so manipulatively use those funds that we have given, the analysis of the previous government, they are now turning it around and presenting it to those who carried out the privatisation that they were in that environment that was until 1999. I do not accept the thesis that neither the energy nor the privatisation strategy define the long-term objectives for which privatisation is carried out. The purpose of privatization, colleagues, was formulated as political at that stage. The task of privatization was to eliminate the possibility of creating problems for our country on the road to democratisation and absorption of European values, or in simple terms, to not go back to communism, not to go back to what you are currently doing through your proposals for the 20 percent and the entry of the state without appeal, without pardon and with the appearance of the Prime Minister in the morning early: You will now see how we will take 34% of this enterprise... That's why privatization was done, colleagues. I also disagree with the finding that none of the governments that have staged privatisation are trying to correct irregularities. The city of wickedness of privatization can also stand out. That's a big discovery! Even such a saying that at least three professors must have written it! We can't accept that finding. I have witnessed all the parliamentary events since 1998, and I declare responsibly that during the post-privatization period, a number of steps have been taken to address the problems arising after privatisation, and I can give you an example, and a report of the Sub-Committee on pricing issues and the work of the electricity distribution companies to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has been prepared. Measures were adopted to change legislation on the basis of proposals even of NGOs. In this respect, by changing the legal and regulatory framework, the rate of return on the company's own capital was adjusted, which ensures a decrease in the price of electricity. A limit was introduced on the share of equity and on the investment portfolio up to 30%. Restrictions were introduced regarding the application of the outsourcing procedure of the companies' activities. Colleagues, there is no way to avoid confusion and the finding that the effectiveness of controls by the regulator does not meet expectations and should be increased by changing the regulatory framework strengthening the administration and its expertise. The main problem with the control of the requested institutional process was the failure of the Commission to work with the primary documents. The so-called depth analysis has been introduced, allowing the regulator to work with the primary documents. The regulator determines the price of electricity, including access, transport and even has the ability to correct them. I draw attention to the fact that the lack of commitments of privatizers in the texts of the privatisation contract is not a defect, colleagues, as Kostadinov said just now, or a omission of the legislator. The mandatory investment framework is impossible due to the regulatory authority's power to determine annually in relation to the single relationship between investment growth and the price of electricity. The Prime Minister and all of you, including you, the opposition, cannot say that you do not want an increase in the price of electricity, but at the same time want investment in these enterprises. Each investment leads to an increase directly in the price of electricity. The regulatory authority is the authority that controlled them. I pay particular attention to the finding that the KEWRC is the institution with regulatory and supervisory powers. The Commission has been granted licence power to issue, modify and terminate licences to the energy distribution companies, but is not empowered to approve, respectively, shareholding transactions in the licensing companies. The State has deprived itself of a necessary tool to protect the public interest. What are we talking about? What is this finding, colleagues? From this tribune you say: there was no criterion for this bill which the BSP proposed together with the nationalists. It is also the duty of those proposing the change to propose the relevant criteria. It was the duty of the MPs to enter the depth and not here from this tribune to immediately come out only in an effort to prove how and how we are interested in the state and offer more than 20% of the shares that will be sold, the state to have control. Under the new text of the Law, the Commission's powers for energy and water regulation are extended to prevent the ownership of the company's capital from changing. An ex ante assessment of the potential new owner is available for reputational and financial purposes in order to ensure the public interest in the implementation of the licensed activity and to ensure the provision of services of public interest. However, the change in ownership of the company's capital does not matter from a regulatory point of view, since it does not lead to the cessation of the business of the licensing company and does not create prerequisites for a self-condition for the change and implementation of the licensing activity with the relevant resources, subject to the regulatory rules. On the other hand, transactions of disposal of shares or shares of the capital of commercial companies are commercial transactions outside the energy market, colleagues. In this sense, they are an expression of the right to a free enterprise where you want to intervene and reflects the principle of the free movement of capital under art. 53 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Now I've read it to you, I've said it a few times without reading it. I hope that this time those who have submitted the text will assimilate it and that there will be no attempts to present the criteria. I hope with the new Energy Act all this goes away. From the Commission's work with regard to the planned sale of CEZ Group companies, Bulgaria is not able to meet the requirements for a Manipulation, colleagues! Manipulation by the BSP! Colleagues, I remind you that the CEZ deal is not privatization. There is a fundamental difference between privatisation and secondary sale. As we have pointed out above, the imposition of strategic investor-type criteria and others of the seller is a complete absurdity and will necessarily lead to cases with a pre-known negative result......................................................................................... and will also lead to cases............................................................................................................................................... In order not to blame me in excessive criticality, I would stress that we welcome the proposal of the Council of Ministers to revise Order No 181 to identify strategic sites and activities that are relevant to national security. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to a very serious problem, namely that the electricity network in the major cities of the country is in critical condition, especially for Sofia. In 2012, the power grid was found to be in critical condition for critical infrastructure. In the past period, investments in the network are insufficient. The reports from the SEWRC also found. The solution to the problem is the creation of a hybrid financing mechanism based on the donor part of the plan "Yunker", the Association of Insurance Companies, the Association of Banks and through direct lending. The motive for this approach of the banks is to make sure that the price of electricity does not increase. Therefore, my fellow Members, by finishing, I say to you, we, as MPs, must adequately assist this process. It's time to learn how to act pro-actively. [[the President signals that time has run out]] with regard to problems and not running off to put out the brakes. Colleagues, what has been said so far, of course, does not outline the Commission's contribution to an extremely difficult activity, with the possibility and attempts to increase the authority of the National Assembly. The absence of the Prime Minister, of a number of other institutions and the failure to provide correct information also speaks of the authority of the National Assembly. However, my criticism is based on the desire of the people's representation to be effective in its actions, to find effective solutions and not to enter into permanent scenarios. I will rephrase here to understand how we enter into scenarios, one opinion of Winston Churchill: that now the ruling GERB, the Patriots, BSP always find the right solutions after they have exhausted the list of the wrong ones. Let's hope we don't make any more mistakes, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. First line, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, I would just like to start by saying that it is not a coincidence that the name of the Commission is such because the case CEZ is a direct consequence of the distorted privatisation in 2002. When you start building something crooked, you can't expect it to get healthier at some point. It collapses, as is the case with what we are looking at. The second thing I would like to say to you is that much of the sentences you have read here from the Report are missing at your insistence in the new report. If anyone's manipulating this room, it's not us. The third thing, perhaps, when this privatisation was done, was looking for strategic investors and was doing everything possible to satisfy their interests. And they must have been satisfied! But whether the objectives of privatisation have been achieved, let each Bulgarian living outside Sofia tell you today what is the quality of his electricity supply, what is the price that pays for this electricity supply, and whether this privatisation has made our system more secure than it was before. I understand the desire to justify the privatisation carried out during the government of the NDSV and the DPS. It's natural to do that. There is no way you can deny this privatization of yours, but let's be realistic. Let us know that when for years something has been at stake from the very beginning, which has been done in the interests of the investor and the interest of the consumer has been forgotten, the results are such. Moreover, there is no way to say today that anyone who can, who wants and who wants, can come to buy an ERP in Bulgaria. There must therefore be criteria, so the regulator must have a preventive role, not run after events, find out what the consequences are and then try to smear them again to the detriment of the people, again to the detriment of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Atalay, I thank you for your detailed speech because it reflected the whole economic and financial philosophy of what happened in the energy sector after the privatisation of the electricity distribution companies and all the resulting consequences for the quality of the service in Bulgaria, its price and the discontent of the Bulgarian citizens. You, quite frankly, and therefore I welcome you, have explained the logic. You said the purpose of privatization was political. Well, I'm sorry, but when an economic action is justified by political goals, it's pure communism. [[Noise and lines.]] When you are doing privatisation, what needs to be leading is the quality of the service, the price, the investment and all the necessary financial and economic parameters for the process to be successful. Today we find through the Report that the process has failed. The emancipation of this thing that we observe is the attempt to resold the company, which you said could happen without interfering with the state and the government, because of this nothing could arise because it was secondary resale. This type of philosophy led to the destruction of tangible assets in Bulgaria on the scale of billions of levs and US dollars in 15 years. What is more worrying is that you have not given up on this understanding, and you believe that its incorrect implementation has led to the current vicious state of energy. There is no time to challenge this philosophy in its depth, but it proved in practice its bankruptcy. It is not the state, the opposition, the report and the dysfunctional institutions that are responsible for this condition, but the political privatization that you have carried out to destroy communism, as you just said. That was bullshit. Political privatization was also carried out in agriculture. Political privatization also led you in the Kremikovtsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u41	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u42	Thanks, I'm done. Everywhere the privatization was political and the results were anti-political, Mr. Atalay. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u44	Colleagues, change of ownership in Bulgaria changed the social order. If you wanted not to change the property, you also want it, but I wonder what GERB are doing there?! [[Noise and lines.]] With the policy you're leading, you're going to put us back in that line where party secretaries will run the power distribution companies, party secretaries will decide the elections by delivering electricity to minorities without paying. [[Noise and lines.]] Let me just tell you what privatization has achieved. With technical losses 30%, they are currently below 10%. With limited investment, innovations, today the meters are located right on the border with the owner and you can see exactly and clearly what you get as energy and as quality. [[Noise and lines.]] If you want to improve quality, let energy develop with the relevant economic processes. But then you won't like the price of electricity at all. As for the Kremikovtsi and other enterprises that have been privatized, read that report that we had done at the previous national meetings for the Kremikovtsi, and then you will see yourself as a political force involved in the distribution and destruction of the Kremikovtsi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here's your speech, Mr. Nikolov. Meanwhile, one message: Today our guests are the students from 61 schools. St. Cyril and Methodius. In Sofia. Let's say hello! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! As true as the numbers are, so are the findings. I'm setting it up for the audience and the listeners if anyone's watching. Half a trillion is the U.S. Army's budget... the largest army in the world. And this deal isn't so much. If it is half a trillion, it is 10 times the gross domestic product of Bulgaria. There's no way this deal's worth that much. It is said that none of us knows exactly how much it is. It is said about 500 million, including the loan granted by the EBRD in connection with the purchase of the assets which under the Energy Act are obliged to buy out. So much for the price. Why was this Commission established? Society must get answers, must know what happens when the ownership of the largest electricity distribution company passes from one to another. What happened before this Commission was done? Charges have begun that the Prime Minister and cabinet members are personally behind this deal. There were great suggestions that the ruling coalition and almost personally GERB produced this deal, almost created the company "Inercom", almost gave the money or guaranteed for this money. The Commission is working very well. I would like to welcome her President for the enthusiasm she has put forward for the dialogue she has implemented, but the problem is that this committee has been unable to gather anything more as information than the information that the Energy Commission and the Security Services Commission have gathered. In fact, all the information has been repeated. I don't get any personal reports from the service. I don't have any reports on this deal. Nevertheless, last September, in front of the Minister of Energy and representatives of the Council of Ministers, I said that we should be very careful about this deal that is coming, no matter who will win it, to examine the origin of funds, because at some point there will become one of the biggest scandals. In the reports that the services have sent, they have informed about things we know based on the information that was coming out in the media in the Czech Republic. However, there is no report that indicates that Inercom is the potential candidate who will win the deal. To the last, it was not known whether this deal would take place because the CEZ Supervisory Board hesitated whether to sell its assets in Bulgaria. There's no way the Prime Minister knows about this deal. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic should not also know about this deal until the last moment when the Supervisory Board came together and decided that Inercom is the winner of the tender. Finally, what are the Commission's findings? Neither the government is behind this deal nor the Prime Minister. No data was found at all from Bulgaria to be behind Inercom. We have no record of that. We may doubt it, but there's no record. About the origin of the funds. He wasn't specific either. We know that Inercom will be involved with its own funds, but we could not figure out how many. They talked about about 100 million, as well as a consortium of banks that will finance them. They said: a multinational consortium of banks with high credit rating and high authority. The line that the opposition had to expose in connection with the participation of the Bulgarian government is the Bulgarian Development Bank..................... under the dictation of the government would be financed this deal. What did it turn out to be? There was a letter "The Bulgarian Development Bank was interested in considering the possible refinancing, note the refinancing of the EBRD in relation to the money they gave as a loan to CEZ Bulgaria. Because the EBRD may require this money early on based on the deal CEZ made. But he may not demand them. In other words, we do not know whether the Bulgarian Development Bank will participate at all, and if it participates, whether it will need its money at all if the EBRD agrees to stay with Inercom and to pay it off. So this balloon exploded. The government cannot force the Bulgarian Development Bank to finance the deal. There wasn't a letter like that. This was confirmed by Mr. Mavrodiev in the committees that had gathered. The findings that we made in terms that the State cannot control such transactions between private entities, created and corrected in the Energy Act post-factum. If we set these criteria, which are already laid down in the privatisation and were laid down in the Energy Act in 2004, then in this case the E.ON would not be able to leave Bulgaria, they would not be able to sell their shares. The CEZ Group can also never leave Bulgaria anymore if we set these criteria, because no investor will come to Bulgaria anymore after the scandals that we are spreading to each other. We rather have to ask ourselves why no strategic investor applied for the purchase of the Bulgarian shares after the announcement of CEZ's tender in the Czech Republic? Not a single strategic investor who met the criteria set out in 2003 for privatisation! This shows that we do not give a good political environment for such transactions. That's what we need to think about! We need to think about what environment we are carrying out in this regard. And that Bulgaria should know, it really should know. However, this must be done wisely. We cannot go post-factum after the transactions, and at a time, if, God forbid, a case is brought against the Bulgarian state. Then who will pay these expenses?! We will all pay them, but these are the mistakes of politicians who create the environment that Bulgaria can be vulnerable. I think the Commission has done its job. It finds nothing of the accusations that have been brought about, but sets good roads in relation to the rationalization of such transactions, not only in distribution companies, not only in energy, but at all when it comes to transactions of public interest. Questions arise as to whether the services should monitor such types of transactions, questions are raised as to how much the state should interfere in such types of transactions. This is a liberal concept, but also of the left-wing parties in the examination of the state. Therefore, we need to reach consensus from now on, without scandals, how we should regulate this type of transaction and this activity. I think it's a good report. The committee has worked well. Once again, I congratulate the President of the Commission on dialogue and on reaching consensus. A lot of the balloons burst. For me personally, this is the satisfaction of the work of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! I have no intention of going deeper into the work of the Commission. I would like to say a few words about some delusions that were said by the stand - for example, the delusion that this type of privatization is a Bulgarian fiction. It was imposed on the outside by our so-called partners now. They forced us to make this type of privatisation so that we could destroy our country so that transnational companies, such as CEZ, could rob the Bulgarian people. This one first. Secondly, this was not any privatisation for CEZ, since CEZ is a state-owned company and 74% of its assets are state-owned. So this isn't privatisation, it's just our assets being sold to a foreign country. That's what no one paid attention to. Returning the main assets to the State does not mean communism at all. Yes, you do. If someone is watching TV, Alpha is aware that we have had a long series of special shows where and in which powerful large and developed countries they hold the main assets on which national security depends, oil companies, electricity companies that produce rare metals, and so on. It didn't happen in my house and it didn't happen at all, and from this tribune there's a lot of... But it's a purely neoliberal philosophy... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u49	Colleagues, please take your seats and be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u50	Most of them don't care about that, Madam President. They know that I speak the truth, but it has no value, because no one will allow such a thing to be done. However, someone should say from time to time that the king is naked so that they do not think that there are fools sitting in the Bulgarian Parliament. What is being commented today would not be if the state controlled these assets. Once again, Keynes is not a communist and Cainsianism is not communism. It is regulatory capitalism for the benefit of the entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u51	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! I was a Member of the Commission and supported the report, as well as the members of the Commission from GERB. I say this for some who attended the Commission's meeting, but have obviously not understood that we have supported the report with a particular view. I am not talking about the members of the Commission. Why do you have a special opinion? Mr. Nikolov correctly said: "The constitutions in this report and what was proposed in the Draft Decision have distracted.................... the many myths that have begun to be spoken since February on this deal, the speech that was made by the Commission and the ugly suggestions that were being made............................. I will not repeat the words about the participation of the state, almost for personalities from GERB, for the Bulgarian Development Bank. Turns out all of this isn't true. There are no such findings in the Report and there is no way. It was clear from the first joint meeting of the Energy Commission and the Security Services Control Commission. Colleagues have requested that there be a special committee with their supervisor. We voted it out, we gave all our cooperation to have such a committee. I'll talk about something else. On the basis of the findings of this report, there are no such findings, even vice versa, but colleagues are speaking here and continue to speak out in the media that, you see, this deal threatens national security. There's no such thing. Those who participated in the Commission and were conscientious and did not politicise the issue very well, and yet these statements continue here. In the Draft Decision, we have written that the Council of Ministers has given us a deadline, Mr. Boychev should review Order 181 with a view to including in the list of electricity distribution activities, which are currently not strategic sites. However, the suggestion continues and continues that this deal will eventually take place or not threaten national security as it concerned strategic sites. It is typical for opposition colleagues to draw false conclusions, distort facts and make suggestions. It's clear what they're after. Secondly, with regard to the services. It was said, on the one hand, that information had been submitted in 2010, on the other hand, I regret that this tribune had made the suggestion, and not only an suggestion, it practically destroyed the authority of the services, that, you see, the services had done nothing, which was why they almost had to stop funding. However, the findings of other opposition colleagues are in the opposite direction. Colleagues, let's be responsible. During the Commission meetings, it seems that some colleagues have read or remained under the influence of the literature on spy novels, or series [[Heckling]] Yeah, like they're throwing at me here, from the separation of the Czech Republic from Slovakia. The services work within their legal competences, honourable Members. And if anyone expects from the SANS that he will acquire or have information outside Bulgaria, he either does not know the laws that I doubt, or wants, prompts and suggests that the Bulgarian services, in particular the SANS, must work in contradiction to the Law that defines his competence and contrary to the Constitution. State Agency "National Security" does not have the competence to work outside Bulgaria. Excuse me, the State Agency of National Security has the competence to collect information from obvious sources through its specific tools within Bulgaria. Yes, you would say there are other services. Since this report speaks of DANS, this report mentions, excuse me, it is not in the constructive part and in the draft decision, too, a false finding. Come on, at least by doing these things, being competent and reading the laws. See what has been mentioned, I quote.............................................................................................. 4, 10, 47, 66, 98 and so on I will not list them. On the one hand, purely politically I will point out, honourable Members, you have generally voted under this law with abstention and abstention, but you are referring to it. It's okay. The majority has decided that there should be such a law. What, though, does the unfaithfulness of this statement contain? Maybe that's where the suggestion is that, you see, the services, in particular the DANS, received some money and did nothing. What's the false? First, the provisions that are set out were adopted on 31 March 2018 in this National Assembly with the votes of the majority, without your votes. Some of the texts that you have indicated will enter into force somewhere by August, as there must be rules on the application of this law and they have not entered into force. The funniest part is: you point to art. 98, para. 4 in the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Excuse me, colleagues, but they refer to non-profit legal entities. Nowhere in the subject matter of the Commission, in the investigation, in the collection it is a fact, has there been any mention of non-profit legal entities. This factology suggests that the purpose was only to tell certain facts, albeit false, and therefore to give reasons to make statements, statements, to destroy the authority of the services. By the way, in the Commission meetings of both the first and the second, there were representatives of the SANS, of the State Agency of Intelligence and of the Military Information. Once again, we have heard them in this committee and in closed session. They answered absolutely all questions and there were no comments, opinions or speeches. There were even questions in more of their competence: why were the SANS not able to check with the banks, notice the input and output documentation? On what grounds? Colleagues answered, but such questions were also asked. It is within the competence of the DANS if there is an investigation by the prosecution or if there is a crime committed, but there are no such findings. Yes, you had a signal to the prosecutor's office. We also heard from the Attorney General about this privatization that a crime has been committed. You would also be leading cases to break the deal either in a Bulgarian court or in a Czech court. However, this remained behind. There are no such findings. I will support the report with a particular opinion. There are other facts that have been inserted into this report. I would like to thank Mr. Boychev in this respect, the colleagues who were in the working group because there were strange findings that were dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Replies to Mr. Lazarov's statement? I don't see any lines. Speaking, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u54	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I dare say that in the Committee on Energy, in my work over the last few years, we have always had a very constructive dialogue, we have always sought a compromise in making important decisions relating to energy. I dare say we've done a good job in recent years. The topic with CEZ, unfortunately, went beyond normal speaking, as many of the speeches and the good intentions that the opposition may have, in particular in their speeches, are ultimately unrealistic. Neither the state can break the deal with CEZ as much as we would like, because colleagues have told many facts, but they did not say the most important "what is the mechanism in which the state can participate in a private-law deal, and people in the opposition who are respected by me lawyers who do not say what the mechanism is. I may not like a lot of things either, but at the end of the day, there's a right and people have to respect that thing. We've voted laws... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u55	Mr. Zablyanov, if you have anything to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u56	Mr. Zablyanov, if you'd like to come out and make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u57	There's no time. I'd make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u58	Mr. Nenkov, don't come in here and talk to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u59	I listened to you very carefully, Mr. Zablyanov. It does not do you the honor of speaking like this. In the end, no response is given to the mechanism on which this transaction may be broken. Here I see a little hypocrisy from colleagues, because other transactions have been happening in recent years, other electricity distribution companies have been sold, but such noise, such hysteria has not been created, nor has there been any desire to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate why one or another ERP has been sold into one or other private hands. Suddenly CEZ has become such an up-to-date topic. Yes, indeed, this is about nearly three million consumers, but behind the desire to set up this committee, I see two main motives. The first, that the government is almost behind the deal and the Prime Minister personally, as it also spoke at the beginning of the CEZ saga, I would say. The findings in the Report and the findings of the services in no way show that the government had any private interest in this deal and any personal attitude. Your second argument for the establishment of this committee, colleagues, is almost that the buyer is neither interested in Mrs. Varbakova, nor do I know her, nor do I have any relationship with you and you say that this company has no experience to manage such a company, which is undoubtedly with a serious commitment to many consumers. I'll give you an argument against this thing. All right, fellow Members, let's answer the question frankly: do we like current electricity distribution companies? You remember 2013 and 2014?! CEZ companies, "Energopro" and EVN companies are companies with international experience. Do we like them, do we always like them? No. Here the question is, are the control authorities doing their job or not? Whether it's called Ginka Varbakova, CEZ, Energopro. And if you don't have a serious corrective across the street, it doesn't matter what his name is. This is the honest answer to the question whether the Inercoms have experience or not. They have no experience. After all, especially in this sector, the regulator has huge powers. Since the thesis of poor privatisation was also expressed, I do not think that when the state started this process in 2004, it was a bad process. On the contrary, the state, in the long run, said what? She said: we privatize companies, move from state to private property, but the state retains the mechanism to regulate them. It's a private business that's really monopoly. After all, it is the regulator who can even change the management of these electricity distribution companies. You understand what it is about, what mechanism the regulator can apply when the company is not well managed. I think that with you, colleagues, in recent years, we have made sure that the regulator is at an ever higher level in its activities as a regulator. We have given them more powers, we have chosen them from the National Assembly in order to be more and more independent, now we have supported them with the proposals and financially to be better secured precisely in order to have more capacity to do so. We really shouldn't speculate too much about this subject, and we shouldn't instill fear in people. We need to look at this way that if we are looking for a mechanism, it is in strengthening the regulatory authorities. If we decide and adopt this bill in which each transaction is approved by the regulator, then we really give the regulator enough mechanisms and criteria to determine how and on what basis they can approve such transactions or not, and not on a purely subjective principle, because when we talk about subjective principle, there are quite unpleasant practices that could happen. This is our job as MPs. We must have more confidence in our institutions as well. Whether it's called the Inercom, the CEZ, the Energopro, we will never like these electricity distribution companies. However, if we have sufficiently well-functioning institutions, then there will be no need for such a debate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. The word is Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u61	Madam President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. The Commission has come out of it because it has not contributed any new information in the last two months, nor has it recommended anything that has not been discussed and has not been accepted before. The President of the Commission has been very active. I also congratulate him from the stands, and I congratulate him on all the media, because he is really very old, but he simply had nothing more to do and, as people have said, the whole pára went to the whistle, and the Commission summarized some well-known facts from the last ten to fifteen years. We sorted them out in a report and finally said: "Here, this has happened over time, and information that was also known before the Commission was established. We have supported you in the creation of the Commission without thinking about it. We supported the President by the BSP. We supported such a composition of the Commission that GERB and the United Patriarchs.We were a minority, that is, you had all the power in this committee to do whatever you wanted. However, unfortunately, our initial expectations have been confirmed by the same committee, but in order not to blame us for trying to hide something, we have supported you in relation to both the Commission and the President and the composition and the majority of this committee, and everything you asked for, we have given you. However, there is one good thing for the last two months, and that is that despite all your attempts, despite all the power you had in the Commission, and on this subject, you have not been able to prove any of the suggestions you originally made. You couldn't prove any of the suggestions, you couldn't find any new information. And in this helplessness at the last moment in the Report you included texts with which you force the Bulgarian National Bank to break the law.. one of the recommendations in the Report. This is my reason to sign the Report with a special opinion.. You are forcing the Bulgarian National Bank to violate another law with a decision of the National Assembly. You're saying someone didn't give you information. Someone does not give you information, in this case the Bulgarian Development Bank and UniCredit Bulbank, if I am not mistaken, did not provide you with a copy of the letters, as the copies of the letters themselves are a trade secret. And what the letters say was repeatedly stated, confirmed, retold, including in writing. So we know the contents, we don't have a copy of the letter. This copy will not contribute to greater clarity on the subject. It won't change the fact that the banks are making a commitment. There are letters of intent, there are letters of support and so on, which are not a binding document. But in this helplessness, in a situation where you couldn't find new information, additional information, you couldn't prove your own, you fell for it, why these banks didn't give us a copy of the letter, didn't tell us what it said. We know very well what these letters say. We've been told repeatedly, given information and so on. They don't give us a copy of the letter! And in this whole situation in one of the points in today's decision we tell BNB to break the law by giving us a copy of these letters. Even if the BNB decides to comply with the decision I do not know, I am not a lawyer, I cannot interpret what should be done in this situation BNB, is the decision of the National Assembly more powerful than a law that forbids you to do anything? The decision makes you do something, the law forbids you to do the same thing. I do not know what is more right to do in this case, but even if these letters are provided, to comply with the decision, to provide a xerocopy of the letters, this will by nothing change the outcome of the Commission, because this information is also known at the moment. So unfortunately, my fellow Members, the Commission, in my opinion, came out unattractive. The chairman was very active, for which I congratulate him. A colossal amount of work was done, only from the very beginning it was known that there would be no result, i.e. the whole pára went to the whistle, as people said. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any lines from the groups where they have time for lines? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u63	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Dobrev, I agree with what you said. Another finding, by the way, which we were willing to remove, but colleagues did not want, and that is why it is part of it. You neglected to say from the particular opinion that there is one finding that a representative of the Supervisory Board of CEZ informed the Commission that since 2013 there has been a offering of buying of shares to an institution of the Bulgarian state, something which the Bulgarian Prime Minister categorically disproves. However, this is set out as a finding that the statement by the Bulgarian state authorities is almost not in line with this finding. On the Czech side I will say and I will remind that the Czech side, I say it for a reason, is the one who is leading a case in Arbitration in New York against Bulgaria. But, you see, with this finding again, although it is said that it is a contradiction, there is a suggestion that it is given faith to representatives of Oversight of a private company and not to the Bulgarian institutions, although in this statement nothing is said. It is not said to whom, when, in writing, verbally, during which government, which minister. There's nothing like that! And it is put in the situation on the part of the Czech side again, I say it for a reason, the Bulgarian state to prove negative facts, which is very difficult and cannot happen. This is the finding that we too were willing to drop. The coworkers didn't want to. This is also the basis for the particular opinion............................. because some such claims can be used on the one hand..................................................................... I don't want to do any more qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I agree with your findings on the work of the Commission, on the so presented report and the draft decision which they have included from the Commission as a proposal to be adopted by the National Assembly, but I express a concern that many of the members of the Commission, obviously not understanding or not accepting the process of normal financing of a private transaction, between private companies, that it may be carried out over time, assume some guarantees and seek funding afterwards in its finalisation. For me, perhaps those people who do not understand the normal functioning of the financial relationship, again I say, between two private companies, stems from the fact that some times when some briefcases of money may have been handed out to buy some state-owned companies from the State back then, the transactions were cash, now and immediately. I can tell these colleagues that these times are not normal, the market economy is working with banks, it is also working with demand for funding. Looking for suggestion that there's something hidden in a deal, something dark, something unenlightened, that they don't have money now, right now, and cash available, is disturbing. So let me just tell you that maybe the time of the briefcases is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u67	Dear Mr. Lazarov, dear Mr. Ivanov, did not mention that there was a claim that the Czech side was proposing to the Bulgarian country to buy CEZ's assets because, firstly, this was public information in the media before the Commission dealt with it. That is, this was not found by the Commission, and this was still known. Secondly, all ministers and prime ministers throughout this period of 2013 have changed several governments, several official governments, Oresharski's cabinet, various energy ministers, all publicly denied this to be true. That is, even if it had gone in this direction, the Commission would still have failed because it would not have understood more. In terms of funding, Mr. Ivanov, this is a long topic. Indeed, project financing is not impossible, including for such transactions. During the Commission, we listened to the buyer's consultant who claimed to know how to secure this funding. I personally am a pessimist that such funding can be structured in the way they have explained to us. Yeah, there's a possibility for project funding. There's no need for that kind of deal to have cash or cash or briefcases or now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u69	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, because the lines that were addressed to the speaker Dobrev were not lines on the substance, but consent and contain insults to Mr. Dobrev's opponents. Colleagues, a line would be to note to Mr. Dobrev that it is not normal for the security services to report to the National Assembly and the BNB not to. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] A line would be to explain that it is not possible to repeat a letter, but not to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u70	That's basically it. I accepted your remark, thank you, Mr. Zarkov. [[The President turns off the microphones. National Representative Krum Zarkov continues to speak to off microphones.]] The statement is to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u71	Madam President, if everything were known, the speaker Dobrev would not have described this purchase as false news before this committee had it. As a result of this committee, it has proved that this news, unfortunately, is not false.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u72	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You took advantage of the procedure in the manner of conduct to make a reply. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of the companies of the CEZ Group in Bulgaria. The draft decision was read by Mr. Boychev. Voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: 148, none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT DISCRIMINATION FOR 2017 Here you are, Mr. Velchev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, before I introduce you to the report, a procedure under art. 49, para. Two for hall pass. Assoc.Prof. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and Associate Professor Dr. Baki Huseinov, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u75	Colleagues, please take your seats or leave the room so that there can be normal working arrangements. I put to the vote Mr. Velchev's proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u76	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination for 2017, No 820-00-12, submitted by the Commission on 30 March 2018. At a regular meeting held on 10 May 2018, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Report on the Commission's activities against discrimination for 2017, No 820-00-12, submitted by the Commission on 30 March 2018. The meeting was attended by associate associate professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Associate Professor Dr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission, and representatives of NGOs. The report on the Commission's activities for 2017, submitted on the basis of art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination was presented by the President of the Commission Associate Professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva. It reflects the results achieved by the Commission as a body on equality, building and implementing national and international policies in the field of combating and preventing discrimination. The report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2017 traditionally focuses on the work of the jurors, takes into account the activities of the specialized and general administration and identifies some of the most important objectives. Ms. Dzhumalieva stressed that in recent years there have been numerous complaints and signals in the institution, and every year there has been an extension of the scope of the subject matter. The trend has been observed that citizens, having put their problems before many institutions and not receiving assistance and a decision on them, should contact the Commission directly or through regional representatives. In 2017, the total number of complaints, alerts and inquiries is 645, the files formed are 300, the decisions given are 450. Of the protected signs present in the case files for 2017 are: supplied in 162 files; supplied in 79 files; supplied in 36 files, supplied in 60 files; supplied in 25 files; supplied in 25 files; supplied in 20 files. There are also many complaints of multiple discrimination. During the past year, 601 were organised open admissions by the regional representatives of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. There has been an increase in the number of citizens who visited the Commission's offices for protection against discrimination and organised admissions from 3472 in 2016 to 3821 in 2017. Ms. Dzhumalieva noted that regional representatives are extremely important for the Commission's activities in that they are the mediators of the institution in small towns. For the implementation in full of the European Commission's recommendations against racism and intolerance, it is necessary to open additional regional offices for which financial resources need to be provided in the Fund. As important initiatives of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2017, the Conference on Religion, Faith and Faith and the National Short-term Campaign is mentioned. The institution continues its joint work with a number of bodies of international organisations with similar competences or areas of activity. The Commission, as a member of the European Network of Equality Bodies, the quasi-court cluster, has hosted a working meeting. Among the 15 representatives of various related committees present, along with the high assessment, it was stressed that the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination has achieved serious development in procedural terms as a quasi-judicial body. Its activity is characterised by a complete and comprehensive process and a detailed regulatory regulation. Following the vote, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly 13 votes to adopt a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2017, No 820-00-12, submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 March 2018. Madam President, the Commission also proposes a draft decision to be debated and adopted by the National Assembly. I suggest I read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u77	Read it, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u78	Project! DECISION on the 2017 Anti-Discrimination Commission activity report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2017 Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Will we have an importer's opinion? We won't. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Like every year, this one clearly has no interest in the subject. The aim is once again to pass, to die, that is to say, the Commission to go forward, to present its report, and to vote here for......................................... for the activities of a Commission on nothing. From the very beginning of the attack in Parliament we are talking about the futility of this institution, which swallows the state budget earlier there were 6.7 million, now have increased. Now it's even more! We have always been in the position that it is about a tool, a baton in the hands of foreign forces for the implementation of the colonial model, for imposing certain standards in our society, for putting blame on the Bulgarian people, who allegedly discriminated against someone, deprived them of rights and, you see, that is why the victims, the wronged, the humiliated had to have protection and that protection was in that committee! Once it was under the expert leadership of the DPS, it was a place for dropouts from the DPS parliament, it was a sort of port and shelter of this and that depessar. It's been years, but things haven't changed much there. Apparently, the traditions they have created at its establishment, and in the years until now, are so strong that the Commission continues to be a repressive authority against the Bulgarians and the most regularly blames of certain people are written acts, fines are paid for this and that. In all these years, not once, if there is any discrimination in Bulgaria, we have not seen cases where fines should be imposed on persons who: in Kardzhali and Kardzhali, in order to sell bread, require the request and request to be in Turkish, or in Shishedjam, that only people from a certain ethnic group are required and there, in this enterprise, Bulgarian is not spoken, because in this enterprise Bulgarians do not work, or many more examples still in this regard and in this regard the discrimination should be sought where it does not exist. Do you know what's new this past year on this committee? I heard that in the Commission, in the building, one of the halls was named after Kemal Eyup. I'm not a fan of him, but I was worried about this guy because he wanted to name himself a hall or a public place in someone's name and he's worried something happened to him? Thank God nothing happened to Mr. Eyup, but I didn't know at first I thought it was some kind of folklore, that it was some kind of joke, but it turned out to be true! There is such a hall in the Commission, which is named after this prominent, this representative, this person, a hero of Bulgarian democracy and parliamentaryism. The Commission slid on the ground, talked and started to create structures by districts, from the centre down, and to reproduce. At one time, even during communism, we read a book............ how the administration builds itself, expands itself and it seeks its states, secretaries, cars, buildings, branches.. and this committee is a typical example in this regard, in this regard. Now you're gonna ask what to do? This committee is according to European requirements, this is lowered to us by Brussels, it is an element of our belonging to this world. In the European institutions there are widespread, built and branched similar institutions and networks, we cannot do anything different. We have been pleading for the closure of this committee for many years. First, as I told you, it costs money, millions, and another thing, it does nothing, and it's more harmful than useful. As in other cases happens from the beginning, however, when we talk about something, we have started many years ago, the society is growing gradually, so we are talking about it, this time again we say it to you and we insist: let us as a society, as a parliament we mature as soon as possible on the eradication of this institution as harmful and unnecessary for the Bulgarian society!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I can't see. Colleagues, today the guests of the parliament are students from the UNWE, majoring in Regional Development. Please welcome them. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Jumalieva! Mr. Hüseyin, good afternoon! Last year, the report you provided, as it was at the beginning of the new parliament, passed between the droplets and there were no debates, there were no debates. There's going to be some modest debate this year. Ms. Dzhumalieva, I would like to draw your attention to the following: not that it should not be closed, but the Commission on Discrimination should, apart from expanding its activities, become a Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The report is quite bulky, who has read it, will draw the appropriate conclusions, but to me it does not differ substantially from last year's and it looks more like an advertising brochure than the Commission's own report on protection against discrimination itself. We, as the National Assembly, would not like it to look like this because the National Assembly approves your report, your proposals, and your salaries, which are little at all, as well as your proposals to expand the activity by opening new offices, because, according to the report of the President of the Committee on Human Rights and Religions, there was a requirement by the European Commission to combat discrimination, anti-Semitism and so on. Naturally, in each of the individual configurations you point out the relevant examples of discrimination, but for me are very important a few things that I pointed out, as I mentioned last year in the Commission and last year in the Chamber. I do not see the Commission anywhere, especially the first composition, which has the very important function of self-sustaining problems of ethnic and racial nature arising under the.......................................................................................... I can list many examples, I will even give you a small book that we have issued to see what is happening in Bulgaria, especially last year. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Ms. Dzhumalieva, last year, there were parliamentary early elections. You have witnessed and observed as well as the entire Bulgarian society, some scenes on the Bulgarian border, when a Bulgarian citizen was pushed and was not allowed to enter her homeland to vote. That makes him acting Deputy Prime Minister right now. That's what happened to him. I would like to ask how many times has the Commission provided documents and materials in a case to a criminal court? In addition to coming up with an opinion to fine the person concerned, how many times have you, since this is in your power, required this case to continue? This is not mentioned anywhere in the report itself, but it is important because you have these obligations, because there is extremely much tension on ethnic, religious and racial nature in the Bulgarian society. I would like to ask, as you pay special attention to the interactions with different institutions: what is the Commission's interaction with the Ministry of Interior and especially with regard to the hooliganism of the Bulgarian Stadiums? Because in the last few days, we have seen an open manifestation of neophasism, and there were many of them last year. I would also like to ask you the question: does anyone in your Commission monitor what is happening specifically in the Bulgarian Parliament during parliamentary control? Because of this tribune there are dozens, hundreds of questions asked to the interior and justice minister for manifestations of fascism and neophasism, for honest discrimination against Bulgarian citizens. This is important for the activities of your Commission, Mrs. Dzhumalieva. Also, as I mentioned earlier, about the relationship: do you have any with the Ministry of Interior? Demand from the Ministry of Interior because they say they have video recordings from stadiums and around stadiums to see how and how small children with swastikas are painted, how the agitists themselves turn to footballers of non-Bulgarian origin, with what expressions and epithetes. In my opinion, this will precisely lead to the meaning at stake at the beginning of art. 40, para. 1 which says that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is an independent, specialized state body to prevent discrimination and so on. The main function of your Commission is to prevent discrimination, prevention of discrimination, dear Mrs. Dzhumalieva and Mr. Husseinov. I am sure that you will take recommendations from what is being said today in this Chamber so that the new composition, which was elected last year, can work in its fullness. A moment ago, our colleague mentioned that you are all from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Please, in particular, pay real attention to the recommendations I am making to you today. I would like to draw attention to your regional structures. In the report itself you indicate within four pages their activity. And just now, from the Report of the President of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights, it has become clear that you wish to expand their activities. Ms. Dzhumalieva, the report is of two hundred and several pages, and I believe that the report which the regional directorates themselves need to provide should be as much as the report of the Commission itself. Therefore, the question is also: how many cases of such racial and ethnic discrimination are there, and even a political sign, how many complaints have been filed by regionals to the Central Commission? Because the majority of the report relates to the activities of the individual Commission configurations in Sofia. In fact, I would be happy to see that someday we live to self-serve when a MP in the Bulgarian Parliament allows himself in the most rude way to insult and divide the Bulgarian society into yours and ours. And that makes him the chairman of the Commission. How did a Bulgarian MP afford to insult an entire Bulgarian community, Bulgarian citizens born in this country, even though they are of other ethnic origin? And nothing! These are the important questions that the Commission must ask itself and work in this direction. I explicitly stress that you are an independent specialized body, although we hear some babbles from the family who's who to whom. You have full freedom to work as the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Before I graduate, I would say that we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not accept the Report in this form, we will abstain from voting. I'm going to finish with a riddle that says: "Rodillo is not shabby, he eats, he doesn't fit." Do not obey this riddle. Be the Commission for Protection against Discrimination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ibryamov, it is very interesting to me, once again waving this pasquil, which you call a book, where there is alleged evidence of intolerance, discrimination, non-compliance with human rights, so you claim, why, after all, inside this pasquil that you have made, it is not written who gives it and who are the authors of this literary paper. Because it is a light piece, which makes the introductions on one page broken graves of an ethnic community, on the other page individuals from "United Patriarchs." That is, when you open the book and the people from abroad by reading this is your goal, to connect as if we were going to break someone's graves. That's your goal! It's Pacquil, but you don't have the courage to write it down. You can claim who issued it, but there are no authors, no publishing numbers, or who issued it, as it should be by law. So you, with one law, want to show and do so how the United Patriarchs are almost discriminators, people intolerant and so on. So have the courage to at least write the authors inside. Republish it, write down who issued it to know, so that it can bear the appropriate judicial and criminal responsibility. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Next line, Mr. Velchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u86	Madam President, colleagues, I could have asked for another procedure, but it doesn't make sense. Mr. Ibryamov, you have just shown how the law can be broken and how one can take advantage of office as a MP. You have now tried to influence a Commission decision. Since you have filed a complaint of discrimination against me, be patient to listen and do not influence a Commission decision. You are almost threatening the Commission to make a decision, because you will not vote or are not satisfied with this committee. This isn't right. I can't understand how a person can get involved in the work of a state commission like this. Just because you're a MP doesn't mean anything. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Will there be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! Whether it means or not that Bulgarian MP is a MP, Mr. Velchev, read the Constitution and you will understand what it means to be a MP. As for whether I have threatened the Commission, you claim the opposite. I didn't allow myself once in my speech to say I was threatening. I asked them when there were cases like this to self-serving. And that there is a complaint against you, naturally, the Commission will come up with the relevant decision, I hope in the right direction. [[(Noise and lines from GERB: Which is the right direction?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] As for the original replicator, I would ask them to read the book very carefully, to get acquainted inside with the excerpts that have been published and then again we can talk about this topic, but everything is a fact also based on official data that are exported to the Bulgarian electronic media and television. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. There were questions asked to Dr. Zhumalieva. Here you go, Dr. Jumalieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wasn't going to take the floor today, but there were specific questions being asked, and I personally have certain perceptions as a person, and they even told us that as an institution we are unnecessary and useless. Personally, I would swallow my ego, but in the name of the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination, I am obliged to address today's debate on the report of our institution. Firstly, I would like to say that personally, as a person and as President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, which has begun a second term, I am accustomed to the Commission's accusations that it is unnecessary, useless, that there are many millions spent there as a budget and as large wages. Here I will say that probably yes, you, as MPs, may not need the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, but we are called to defend the interests of all Bulgarian citizens. It is important to us when people from small towns have lost their faith and trust, including in all Bulgarian institutions, find the strength and courage to address our institution as a port for last hope. I would also say that the Commission's budget for protection against discrimination when the Bulgarian Commission was established was 3 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. More than ten years ago, today we have a much higher budget and a much larger state of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, which is slightly over 2 million. lv. The other thing I want to say: it is very easy to say: It is very easy to say: we do not need protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens! There's no man. There's no problem. That's what it tells me. In relation to the questions and accusations that have been addressed to the Commission's report on protection against discrimination, I will say a few things. The Commission's report on protection against discrimination, if someone accepts it as an advertising brochure, may be for him the perception, but every year we try in a relatively uniform form to present the report to the Commission for the simple reason that the activities of the Bulgarian institution and the only body for equality in Bulgaria are extremely diverse and diverse. And we want to have a certain systematization that very easily guides you, the MPs, in the activity and you can even do a comparative analysis with the other past years during which we have reported ourselves as an institution before the National Assembly. On the subject of self-serving, I remember the criticism you gave us when you listened to us about the new mandate last year. In this regard, I dare say that we are trying to be much more active than in other years. Here I will point to the self-secution of the children's home. Self - seizing in connection with the child who was denied treatment. We have over six self-esteems. But I would like to stress again not to make suggestions with regard to the Bulgarian citizens that they can turn to the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination only and only in cases where it is an ethnic or religious sign. We in the Commission are extremely proud, as the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination at European level is recognised to be one of the committees that examines the most signs. The signs are 19 in number. They are listed unexhaustiblely and may by other signs, which are provided for in a law or international treaty to which Bulgaria is a country. This includes personal situation, education, religion, faith, social status, marital status, and so on. In other words, the activity and the problems the Bulgarian institution is dealing with are extremely diverse. In addition, in relation to self-examinations, I would like to draw your attention if you have missed in our reports of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, to mention again the procedure under which self-examinations are carried out. This is a special formal procedure which requires a decision of the entire nine-member body of the Commission on protection against discrimination. Self-reservation takes place on a proposal from a Commissioner and then there must be a solution, with the majority supporting self-secution in order to initiate proceedings before the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination. So it is not so easy, and it does not depend on the specialized, permanent meeting groups in which the members of the Commission meet for protection against discrimination. This is very briefly about self - examination and the way we approach this issue that has been put to us. Otherwise, as an institution, I am pleased with the criticisms and the proposals that are being made to us, because I have always viewed criticism as a constructive thing, as something we can work on further, think about and, if you will, set a new approach in drawing up the report of the Commission on protection against discrimination. At this point, I think I have answered the questions that have been asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u91	Thank you, dear Dr. Jumalieva. Colleagues, I'm announcing a break by 12.05, and then we'll continue the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u92	Colleagues, we're moving on. There was a statement made by Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding the item under discussion on the agenda, i.e. the Commission's report on discrimination, the following questions arise for me. As far as the things presented in this report are concerned, the work that has been done is sufficiently objective, professional enough, morally enough, and so on, in view of a few concrete facts that I would like to recall, hopefully one day I will also receive an answer from the Commission on Discrimination, because that is not what I am getting, including from the previous Parliament, when I had sent a letter to the Commission on discrimination. Guess if I got the information I requested from them? No, I didn't get it. In the letter they arrogantly told me to search for my information myself. I mean, how can we believe that this committee really works properly? There's a problem for us on this committee, too. You cannot deny the MP information which is legally required to provide not only to me, but to every Bulgarian citizen who asks for information from them. How can I trust your reports and your reports? How can I believe that all the decisions made by this committee are objective and honest when I do not receive the answers I ask? And the answers I have asked are as to what is the effectiveness of the Commission for its decisions and how many of these decisions fall in the Bulgarian court? Because the vast majority of this information that I have unofficially, I do not have one from the Commission, the Bulgarian court cancels their decisions. I mean, what does that say? That this committee isn't effective or incompetent, I don't know. Why, then, does it exist when every Bulgarian citizen on whom some penalty has been imposed against him, appeals in court and decisions fall? So there's a problem. Do we have to close our eyes that there's a problem? Do we have to close our eyes that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we can be their clients in any way? No, we don't have to close our eyes. When there are problems in an institution, these problems must be solved. I really hoped that the leadership of this committee would make the Commission itself work effectively to make sense of it, because otherwise we see no point in having such a committee. Every Bulgarian citizen... Let us determine one formation in each Bulgarian court to look at such cases of discrimination, so that we know that the decisions taken are objective, professional and the sanctions imposed will be implemented. Because otherwise, if two thirds of our decisions fall into the Bulgarian court, why do you exist? To spend public money? I was also in the previous Parliament, a Commissioner for Human Rights and Religions, where I had also asked certain questions concerning the financial transparency of spending money in this committee. Because even today it has been hinted about how it expands its activities and how more funds are needed. I had asked about specific things that we had information about, whether they were true, to obtain information. Neither in writing nor live in the Commission by asking these questions about certain spendings of money. I didn't get an answer. I don't think that's normal! It is not normal for people who are elected by the Bulgarian Parliament not to respond to the MPs! That's not normal! So I cannot support such a report by the Commission on discrimination. I hope they dig through their archives, pull out the letter I sent them, dig through their archives and in the meetings of the previous Commission Parliament, the questions I have asked and answer me to find out what the truth is. Otherwise, how can people believe that the Commission on Discrimination is fair and protects human rights when they do not answer questions that are asked by MPs? There's no way to believe this thing. Or maybe we just set up some posters, and then we go in there, and we do our thing. We make decisions, we make reports, we write how many decisions, how many cases, but what is the effectiveness of these decisions, how they fall in the Bulgarian court, we do not care. Why should we care about this thing? We've done our report, we've done our heroic work. There's almost no end result. These are my questions, and this is my desire to finally get, it might not be today, again I say, dig up your archives and answer me, because that's normal. Because every Bulgarian citizen has the right to ask you and you are obliged to answer it, no matter how involved you are and whether you have administrative capacity to answer it. You'll trouble yourself to answer. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Then we continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u95	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Bulgarian brothers and sisters! Today must be one of the saddest days in Bulgarian history. In the noise of the day, we welcome dear guests, we meet, we solve immediate domestic, economic, political problems, we watch the report on CEZ, but few of us seem to remember that today's May 17th is the day of the Batak holy martyrs. I very much wished that some of the Bulgarian brothers from the other political parties would come out on behalf of the parliamentary group and celebrate this day. Unfortunately, we're not ripe yet. Because on the bones of the Batak holy martyrs came Bulgarian freedom. The April Uprising was a successful uprising because they, the Batak martyrs, died. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church, which is first of all the processes in Bulgaria, which has always been right, which has always told the truth and has always worked for the benefit of God, and which for me is the largest institutional authority in Bulgaria, has done its part. He did, he confessed to the holy martyrs who died in Batak. This happened at the time that some people tried to question what happened in Batak. You remember a Bulgarian Jew, funded by Turkish money through Germany, the creation, the Pasquila, the Mitak Mith, who tried to downplay the drama that had played in this town. And then we reacted harshly, irreconcilably. This was one of our main messages at the time, because the past must not be forgotten. If we owe something to the Bulgarian people, it is a day which the Bulgarian Orthodox Church has declared for a day of the Holy Martyrs - May 17th, that this should happen in the Bulgarian Parliament to be recognized the genocide of the Bulgarians. One of the greats of the Bulgarian Parliament, such as the emancipation of the Bulgarian people, as its representation to the highest degree, is that our parliament recognized genocide against other peoples and quite rightly, it is commendable to recognize the martyrdom of other peoples and to fight for historical justice. The Bulgarian people branded humane and criminal regimes, which in one period or another tortured the peoples and humanity. We are debtors because we have not yet recognised the multi-century genocide of the Bulgarian people which began in the middle of the 14th century and its end are considered the terrible events that occurred in 1913 with the Bulgarians of Eastern Thrace, thousands and tens of thousands of them for the last time at the end of the scary Ottoman slavery, also killed, slaughtered, left their bones at home, part of the Bulgarian national settlement. I can't figure out how long we're gonna delay this confession? And it is very important not only by honoring martyrs, not only to remember the past, but also to realize some processes that are relevant today. To be clear that Ottoman slavery has brought our people back centuries to be aware of the reasons for this in order to properly appreciate the fact of the Liberation of Bulgaria, because in this regard, voices are also heard against the Liberation of Bulgaria, which we did not properly mark on the occasion of the 140th anniversary. But that's a topic for another conversation. Because as a result of this genocide we Bulgarians at one point have left 250 thousand in number. You read Professor Gandev and his famous research in which Professor Gandev proved everything in Ottoman documents and archives. Imagine the size of this genocide, its scale and its consequences. It is also, I say, part to realize the present and the fact that the effects of the ugly Ottoman slavery have not yet been overcome. But this is also a topic for a very big conversation and a recognition of genocide over the Bulgarians during the Ottoman Empire from the 14th century to 1913 will clear us up and this moment will give us starting points for understanding what the problems are today as regards the inheritance from the Ottoman Empire. Here the recognition of the genocide over the Bulgarians will give us a starting point and will make us more determined in the search for those compensations for which we have been talking for so long and as a result of the request of And so I will conclude with this call to rise up and honor the memory of the martyrs of Batak and all, probably millions, Bulgarians who have fallen victim to the genocide over the Bulgarians during the years of Ottoman slavery.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Another procedure is required to pay tribute with silence. We can meet Mr. Shopov and Adhok's invitation. Please, when we get up, let's honor the memory! [[Everyone's up. A minute of silence.]] Thank you to the National Assembly. We are going back to discussing the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Jumalieva, Dear Mr. Husseinov! Somehow, naturally, from the Batak Declaration, we have moved on to today's topic. To a large extent, I can say that I have carefully familiarized myself with the Commission's report on protection against discrimination, and I have therefore listened carefully to the debates that have taken place. I agree with some of the findings that have been made, they are really necessary after one gets acquainted with the report. I cannot agree with the fact that the report is nothing, even more is a comprehensive, large report of about 200 pages, exactly 200 pages. I agree with the fact that there is to some extent an aspiration for enumeration, and with that a list of circumstances, there is also a slight sliding of some of the events. However, to a large extent, the report does not have what was in the Commission's first year when it was used as a bat definitely, and there are no such exotic checks in the report that found its place in it. In this regard, we also need the Socialist Party and our coalition's opinion that we will support this report. We are convinced that the Commission has a place in society, that it is in this committee that they should discuss issues of discrimination. Nowadays, when society is increasingly poor, increasingly divisive from each other, divided, increasingly discriminating, the place in all cases of discussion is precisely in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and the decision and discussion of the Commission's activities is in the Bulgarian Parliament and not because of Europe, but because of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian society. And to fellow governors who, on certain subjects, see that they do not find common understandings, and what is more, there are many differences, we recommend if there is anything that could be optimized in the Commission, or something that would recommend that the activity be optimized, that it be done in the Commission, whether in Parliament, with relevant recommendations and submitted projects for changing legislation. In this regard, once again, we will support this report because it is right for it to be discussed here and the events and the circumstances that they are discussing find a place in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Just a year ago, again in this room, with the start of the 44th National Assembly here we heard two things. One is that this committee is unnecessary. Once again, the second thing we heard was gunfire based on ethnicity and I wouldn't say religious affiliation. Dear Members of Parliament, since we, as the National Assembly, have decided that this committee is necessary, then this is the case. I think it's inappropriate to ask questions if she's doing a good job, is she necessary and that this committee should just go. All this is an indirect insult to me both to the members of this committee and to the members of the committee to which I belong. Because we're talking about a committee that works with one of the smallest budgets. And I say again, this is against the backdrop of the many agencies that have been created that serve a huge regulatory base and spend public resources. But we are also talking about 19 indicators, the sign of discrimination against Bulgarian citizens. I have to tell you that this committee is needed. It represents one front that serves as a buffer and assumes the discontent of our citizens, who are considered to be discriminated against by one sign or another. That is why I think this committee is not only necessary, but it must also be protected. Because the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is our, the Bulgarian phenomenon, a phenomenon that teaches us tolerance, justice; a phenomenon that keeps people from going out on the street and there seeking their rights before reaching for their complaints and signals to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-17.u100	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to say a line. Any other speeches? I don't see any MPs who want to talk about it. I'm closing the discussion. We move on to a vote on: Project! DECISION on the 2017 Anti-Discrimination Commission activity report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2017 Please vote regime. Vote 117 MPs: 106 against 9, abstention 2. The decision's been made. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the next item of our weekly programme is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSATION WITH IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATIONS AND THE COMPLAINTS OF CIVILITY. Importer is the national representative Gergana Stefanova. I'll read you the proposal: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, A.D. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please provide the draft decision for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. The proposal is to elect Mrs. Elena Stefanova Axieva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I will read the draft decision: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Elena Stefanova Axieva is elected member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Mrs. Elena Axieva has been elected a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Dear Members of Parliament, I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication, which will be held tomorrow: The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev, Ivelina Vassileva, Ivan Valkov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva and Asya Peeva. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MPs Anton Kutev and Mikhail Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova; and Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; to a question with written answer from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; and to a question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov of a question by the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and Economy Minister Emil Karanikov are unable to take part in the meeting because of the commitment provided for in meetings of meetings of the Calendar of Events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. Parliamentary control will begin at 9:00, Friday, 18 May 2018. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
