ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. The first item of today's agenda is: SELECTION OF A RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE AND THREE MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROCEEDING OF CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECOGNITION OF INDEPONSIBILITY. It's optional. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with the rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 21 March 2018. Colleagues, I'll introduce you to the rules. You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Karayancheva lied to all Bulgarian citizens on the air that BSP does not submit bills and that there are no legislations which concern the holidays of the MPs. I would like to inform Mrs Karayancheva that this decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure was tabled on 19 April and that this decision was also seen yesterday in the Legal Commission. I would like to inform Mrs. Karayancheva to be interested in what is happening in the National Assembly because it is unacceptable to state on the air, I quote: "These are only BSP declarations that there is nothing going on." There is, Mrs. Karayancheva, who have received bills, there are bills that are not seen for months, even some have kept them for years, and it is not normal that the President of the National Assembly should not know what is happening in the National Assembly. Only this time should it not turn out to be the fault of the Head of the Ministry, as it turns out the head of security was guilty when the disabled were not allowed to step foot here in plenary. Mrs. Karayancheva, I really ask you, I repeat, I ask you to apologize from here, from the parliamentary tribune, not only to BSP, but also to all Bulgarian citizens for the fact that yesterday you have speculated in this way so that I do not say an even stronger word, because this is indeed unacceptable for the President of the National Assembly. In this way you represent this institution and you undermine that authority. I'm waiting for your apology. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I did a background check. Yes, indeed these procedural rules were tabled on April 19th, and I apologize for that. Thanks for the remark, but you can never accuse me of incompetence. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-President and three members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report from the hearing held. 3. The candidates shall be represented by the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property under their order as defined in the list of candidates for Vice-President and members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property prepared in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 21 March 2018 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Firstly, I give the floor to the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, to read the report. Mr. Yachev, please come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u4	Mr. Anton Tomov Slavchev, Mrs. Antoaneta Stoyanova Georgieva-Tsonkova, Mr. Plamen Lyubenov Yotsov, Mrs. Silvia Rusanova and the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and Defeat of Illegal Property Mr. Plamen Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u5	Please, voting mode. Vote 173 MPs: 156, against 4, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u6	♪ I can't believe of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on the hearing of candidates for Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property At an open session held on 24 April 2018 and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interests and parliamentary ethics held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property (KKCONPI) under Section V of the Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Candidates, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents, Hearing of Candidates in the Commission for Counter-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics and for the Choice of Vice-President and Three Members of the CPCONPI, adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 21 March 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. The chairman of the commission Boris Yachev announced that four proposals were received from the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property Mr. Plamen Georgiev as Vice President and three members of the KKCONPI: the nominations of Anton Tomov Slavchev, Antoaneta Stoyanova Georgieva-Tsonkova, Plamen Lyubenov Yotsov and Silvia Rusanova Kardreeva. Proposals for candidates together with all documents are published on the specialized website of the National Assembly and are made public. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure of the candidates, a check was carried out under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and on the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. No documents establishing belonging to the bodies referred to in Article were found for either of the four candidates. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. All the candidates required under Section I, i.e. are submitted to the proposals of the candidates. 2 et c. 3 of the Rules of Procedure documents........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, written concepts of strategic management, if selected, Declarations of incompatibility according to template The hearing was held in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates for Vice-President and three members of the CPCONPI. The candidates of Anton Tomov Slavchev, Antoaneta Stoyanova Georgieva-Tsonkova, Plamen Lyubenov Yotsov, Silvia Rusanova Kudreva as Vice-President and three members of the KKCONPI were presented by the Chairman of KKCONPI Mr. Plamen Georgiev. Plamen Georgiev drew attention to the professional and moral qualities that the candidates possess, pointing out that it is they who make them worthy and suitable for taking the relevant positions in KKCONPI. After the submission of the applications, first, the word was given to Mr. Anton Slavchev to expose his concept of work if he was elected Vice-President. Mr. Slavchev pointed out that in the fight against corruption as a major challenge in the future work of the Commission, the following guidelines are outlined:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He also noted that employees should have the opportunity to build on their professional qualities to respond to the current challenges of fighting corruption. As regards the organisation and management of the Commission, emphasis should be placed on the planning of the activities, which will be essential in order to achieve the planned results. Another important and important point in the work of the Commission's bodies is that within each structure and unit there are leaders built. In the case of functional interaction in the structures of the Commission, the principle of uniformity must be respected. It is particularly important to achieve effective results that good interaction with all state authorities, including organisations carrying out corruption monitoring activities. After him his concept of work in the Commission presented Mrs. Antoaneta Georgieva-Tsonkova. In her statement, she pointed out that the continuity between the CONPI and the KPCONPI would allow them to preserve and increase the achievements in the work of this state body. The new Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property provides a good legal basis and provides sufficiently powerful means to carry out the two main tasks set with the ultimate aim of restoring predictability and justice in public relations and the damaged legal order. He also noted that teamwork, exchanging ideas and arguments based on life and professional experience will help to find optimal, legal solutions that will lead to the performance of the responsible tasks facing KPCONPI. Mr. Plamen Yotsov also presented his vision for work in KPCONPI. He pointed out that one of the most important countries in the work of the Commission should be optimizing the activities of prevention of corruption. According to him, it is extremely important to prepare and sign basic agreements for electronic data exchange between different services and institutions. He pointed out that the quantitative increase in the number of checks and proceedings, as well as the increased amount of assets withdrawn, are indicators that will give a positive assessment of the work of KPCONPI. Ms. Sylvia Kandrava presented her views on the activities of the new anti-corruption body. She drew attention to the activities of the Public Register and the upcoming changes in the declaration of the assets and interests of those holding senior public positions. Ms. Kudreeva pointed out that through the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property there is a link to the verification of property declarations in the event of a found non-compliance of BGN 20 000, with the check on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The analysis of property declarations and interests for the persons in the scope to be carried out by the Commission on the basis of the Law has an effective deterrent effect on illegal enrichment. After presenting the concepts to the candidates, a number of questions were asked by the Commissioners, including those previously received by the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives at the Parliamentary Commission. The following MPs took part in the discussion: Boris Yachev, Ivan Valkov, Spas Gurnevski, Kristina Sidorova, Milko Nedyalkov and Slavi Netsov. The candidates gave thorough and comprehensive answers to the questions asked, thus furthering their views on the work of the new body and protecting their professional qualities and intentions. One of the main issues that were concerned was whether the Commission would be able, within the time limit, to draw up the models of declarations of property and interests. The candidate Mrs. Kudreva replied that a team has already been formed, which is working on their development and as soon as possible after the establishment of the Commission the declarations will be made available for completion in order to comply with the statutory deadline for submission. For the first time in the declarations of property and interests will be given instructions for filling. After the hearing was concluded, the chairman of the committee Boris Yachev said that a report from the hearing will be submitted, to which a list of candidates who participated in the hearing will be attached, arranged alphabetically on their own names as Vice-President and three members of the CPCONPI and Draft of a decision to choose each candidate who participated in the hearing for Vice-President and three Commissioners. Dear Madam President, I present to your attention and draft decisions. In the course of presenting the project, I would also like to correct a technical error, Madam President, so that I do not take the floor further. Decisions to elect a Vice-President and three Commissioners. Here I want to edit each of the solutions, as the choice is separate, each of the decisions must be voted separately. They are a decision to elect a Vice-President and a decision to elect Commissioners separately, so I present two drafts for a decision. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED He elected Vice-President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. And another decision which concerns candidates for members of the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED He elected a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Colleagues, I give the floor to Mr. Plamen Georgiev in two minutes to present the candidates for Vice-President and Members. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev for each of the candidates for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 8, para. 6 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property under the Rules of Procedure adopted by a decision of the National Assembly on 21 March 2018, I submitted four applications to Parliament: for Vice-President and three members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Today I have the pleasure of presenting these applications to you, but I would like to clarify in a few words what exactly are the reasons for making these proposals. I personally know each of the proposed candidates and have had the opportunity to work with them in different fields during different periods of my career. I have direct impressions of their professional training and of their business qualities. For me, the leading motives in choosing the team, with which if you vote trust, we will work in the new anti-corruption body, were their expertise and their dedication, of course, to work. Specifically, for the proposed applications: as Vice-President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, I propose that Mr. Anton Tomov Slavchev be elected. I've known Mr. Slavchev and I've had the impression of his work since he was an investigative officer and then an employee at the DANS. At the same time as the prosecutor I had the opportunity to personally verify his high professionalism and knowledge of the legal basis in the performance of the duties and in solving the tasks put by the Prosecutor's Office. These qualities he was able to develop and prove them in his management of the Directorate of Corruption in the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. You probably know that in less than two months we already have three implementations under the fight against corruption. Thanks to the good relations created in the Directorate and its management skills, the main core of employees continued their work in the newly established anti-corruption body. Mr. Slavchev holds a Master's degree in Law from the Faculty of Law of Veliko Tarnovo University. St. Cyril and Methodius. He has also graduated from the Higher Military School of Todor Kableshkov, fluent in English and Russian languages and, as I said, has a rich professional experience of more than 22 years. My next proposal is for Mrs. Antoaneta Stoyanova Georgieva-Tsonkova. I propose that she be elected Commissioner. I know Mrs. Tsonkova from her work in the former Committee on Illegally Acquired Property. She graduated law at the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, fluent in Russian and French. He began his professional career in 1998 as an intern judge at the Sofia City Court. She is then a lawyer at the Bar Association and now her work goes entirely to the Commission for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, including Mrs Tsonkova was also Vice-President of that Commission, and for a certain period the President of the Commission carried out the activity when there was none. Ms. Tsonkova's joint legal internship has been more than 18 years. In those years she worked, she really proved herself to be a professional. I can say first of all that it enjoys exceptional authority in the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and now also in the new committee. My next offer is for Mr. Plamen Lubenov Yotsov. I've known Mr. Yotsov for many years too. I've discussed a lot of cases with him as a prosecutor. He's a proven professional to me. There are extremely many awards in connection with his previous works. Mr. Yotsov has graduated from higher education at the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defense. He holds a master's degree in the specialty of the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in the Master's degree in Initially he built his professional career at the Ministry of Interior and subsequently at the DANS. He's got more than 20 years of internship in total. He started working initially as a scout at the National Office of Security and later worked consecutively in many leadership positions in the Ministry of Interior and SANS. He has been awarded numerous awards, including the police officer of the year, the Giovanni Falconi prize, to which I also have sentiments. He had training abroad in the United States, in Spain. I think it's a professional application of a man with a lot of experience. And last but not least, because the work of the last member proposed by me is extremely important. I've known Mrs. Kudreva for several years, too. We participated in various international forums when we presented the good practices of the country in relation to the register of declarations of persons holding public positions. She presented them, and therefore I have presented good practices with a view to withdrawing illegally acquired property. She's an exceptional professional in her field. I dare say he knows the system of declaration best. Mrs. Kudreeva holds a Master's degree in the specialty of the University of Sofia. Kliment Ohridski " "Philosophical Faculty," speaks written and spoken English. So, as I said, this is a proven professional who has really created and developed a public register that gets extremely much praise. Ms. Kandrava has a number of publications in Bulgaria and abroad, she is a member of a network of experts for transparency. Mrs. Kudreeva's professional path is reason to propose her candidacy as a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I believe that her long-standing professional experience and expertise in preventing corruption, and her authority, which she enjoys in the various international partner networks and anti-corruption institutions, has strong arguments for her to be trusted. In a nutshell: honourable MPs, now is the time to show whether you really want a real fight against corruption. I'm proposing pro candidates. You know, the law envisions five years, and these candidates have 18, 20, 22 years internship. You can really make sure that these are some professionals and in no way are any of them tied up party. If today were to really continue with a political talk against these candidates, that would be a very bad sign to society. If you really want to support the fight against corruption, not just in words, but in real action, now is the time to support some professionals who have proven themselves in the areas in which they have worked. I call on the Bulgarian Parliament to show that it wants a real fight against corruption in order to support the Commission on the really long and difficult way to fight corruption, which we have already, as you can see, taken. I am counting on you and I hope you will indeed support these purely professional proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches. [[Heckling]] I take it there are no speeches? I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will read the draft decisions one after the other and we will vote, as is the procedure that we have voted before. I will remind you of this: the vote is carried out separately for each candidate on the order set out in the candidate list. Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Anton Tomov Slavchev as Vice-President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: 125, against 12, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Slavchev. We're moving on. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Commission to counter corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Antoaneta Stoyanova Georgieva-Tsonkova as a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and Detainment of Illegal Property. Please, voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: 126, against 3, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mrs. Tsonkova. Moving on to the next term. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Ljubenov Yotsov as a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and Acquirement of Illegal Property. Please vote. They voted 164 MPs: 126 against 9, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Yotsov! And the last one. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Commission to counter corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 8, para. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED She elected Sylvia Rusanova Kudreeva as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property. Please vote. They voted 164 MPs: 126, against 6, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mrs. Kudreva! In doing so, we have completed the procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents and Commissioners for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Let's congratulate Mr. Georgiev's team and wish them luck! [[Applause.]] Before we move on to the next item on the agenda that is second today, I will read you a message. Message: Under the Law on the Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an assessment of fiscal policy has been received in the mid-term budget forecast for the period 2019 and the spring macroeconomic forecast 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the document was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to item two on the agenda: SELECTION OF COMMISSION MEMBERS FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION. I'll introduce you to the Rules of Choice. The election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, with a decision of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within 2 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is apparent through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where one of the candidates for the position concerned does not receive the necessary votes, a second vote shall be held, involving two candidates who have received the most votes for the position concerned. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 21 March 2018. To get acquainted with the report of the Energy Commission Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for admission to the Chamber of the following candidates for Commissioners: Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov, Georgi Tonev Zlatev, Evden Todorov Nikolov, Penka Markova Trendafilova, Remi Dormush Osman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u11	Access mode, please. They voted 123 MPs: 113 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u12	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe concerning the hearing of candidates for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to a decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Energy and the Election Procedure of the National Assembly At its regular meeting held on 24 April 2018, the Energy Commission held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to Section V of the Energy and Water Regulatory Act, as well as the procedure for proposing candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. At the beginning of the meeting, the Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev noted that the proposed candidates met the requirements of the Energy Act for the posts for which they were proposed and should be allowed to be heard. Under the procedural rules, candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be submitted in alphabetical order by importers. Mr. Alexander Yordanov was nominated as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the field of energy by MPs from the parliamentary group. On behalf of the importers, his candidacy was presented by the MP Boris Yachev. Mr. Yordanov completed his higher education with a Master's degree in Economics at the University of National and World Economy and gained a number of other qualifications in the period 2004-2014. He has a long-standing experience in the field of energy and has held the post of Head of Department of Internal Home Affairs Control in the Department of Internal Affairs. From 2007 to 2011 he was the Executive Director of the Business Energy Bulgaria and from 2011 to 2013 he was an energy expert. In 2015, Alexander Yordanov was elected a member of the KEWRC in the field of energy and for three years performed with professionalism and expertise his duties and contributed to the good work of the energy regulator. In view of the reasons put forward on behalf of the importers, the people representative Boris Yachev pointed out that Alexander Yordanov has the necessary education and professional qualities for the appointment of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. From the political party's parliamentary group Volja. "The public representative Plamen Hristov reasoned presented Mr. Georgi Zlatev's candidacy for a member of the KEWRC in the field of energy. Mr. Zlatev completed his higher education in VMEI, with a specialty of "Electroenergy" with an acquired Master-Engineer degree. Its professional development begins as a main duty ell. Board in 1978, growing to the position of CEO. Georgi Zlatev is the head of significant enterprises in the energy sector He has participated in the development of a number of strategies for the development of heating companies, as well as numerous projects in the public and private sectors contributing to the development of energy. Mr. Evden Nikolov has also been nominated for a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the field of energy. On behalf of the importers, his candidacy was presented by the MP from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Mr. Nikolov graduated from Accounting and Control at the Industrial Academy D. A. Tsenov "with acquired postgraduate qualification" "Valuten and customs control." Its professional development began as a tax auditor in the Tax Administration and in 2000 it was part of the commercial team that carried out activities to secure and supply energy companies using coal as the main fuel component for the thermal power plant "Varna" and TPP "Ruse" as well as boiler fuel for the thermal power plant "Maritsa-Eastern" 3 Involved directly in the preparation and participation of tender procedures and negotiated procedures with electricity and heat producers. Mr. Nikolov has worked at the TPP Maritsa Iztok 3s as chief accountant, which contributes to his good knowledge of the production processes and operational work of the power plant. In 2010 he started working as a consultant for auditing and risk assessment in NEK EAD, auditing the implementation of investment sites for construction of electricity lines, rehabilitation and expansion of substations. Organizes and creates a risk register and risk management strategy in NEK EAD. He has also been appointed Head of the Internal Audit and Control Department in NEK EAD. Evden Nikolov has good professional qualities and nearly ten years of experience in the field of energy. People's representative Plamen Hristov presented Mrs. Penka Trendafilova's candidacy, nominated by the political party parliamentary group Volja......................................................................................... Ms. Trendafilova has completed her higher education, a Master's degree with a degree in accounting and accounting at the Economic Academy of D. A. Tsenov and holds two postgraduate qualifiers She began her professional development as chief accountant, and at this moment she is head of the Financial and Financial Department at the Burgas University of Water and Water. Ms. Trendafilova enjoys a good name and has proved her motivation and competence over the years. With her long experience in the field of water supply and sewerage Mrs. Trendafilova has established herself as a professional with excellent expertise and management qualities. A member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with legal internship from the political party's parliamentary group DPS has been nominated Mr Remzi Osman. On behalf of the importers, his candidacy was presented by the national representative Ramadan Atalay. Mr. Osman graduated from his higher education at the UNWE in 1997, with a Master's degree in Law. He has experience as a lawyer, is a member of the Sofia Bar Association and has been elected as a Member of the National Assembly consecutively at seven National Assemblys for the period 1990. During all these years, he has actively participated in the preparation and adoption of regional policy, local self-government, territory, water and energy sector regulations. As a lawyer Mr. Osman was elected a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in 2015. For three years he carried out his mandate with exceptional professionalism and contributed significantly to the Commission's good work. All candidates presented their concepts, which mainly highlighted the Commission's independence as a regulatory authority; transparency in the work and increasing administrative capacity; more in-depth interaction with the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Ministry of Energy, the State Financial Inspection Agency and the Energy Commission; continuation of the liberalisation process; careful assessment and analysis of the regulatory basis with a view to settling the legal consequences in relation to the already emerging and developed relationships between the participants in the electricity and water market; development of regulations in the Water Act so that the KEWR can proceed to the examination and approval of business plans and price applications of the water operators; improvement of the regulatory base; better operational and expertise of the VKM Directorate in the Water and Water Regulatory Commission. Following the hearing, the Energy Commission found that the candidates met the requirements of the Energy Act for taking up the relevant position for which they were proposed. On the basis of the hearing, the Energy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section VI of the Rules of Procedure and to the applications of Alexander Yordanov, Georgi Zlatev, Evden Nikolov, Penka Trendafilova and Remzi Osman, to which the report is attached a draft decision for each candidate for the respective position.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. According to Section VI, the election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly, p. 3 each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within 2 minutes. I give the floor to present the importers. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to offer to your attention Mr. Alexander Yordanov's candidacy as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the field of energy. Mr. Yordanov completed his higher education with a degree in Economics Master at the University of National and World Economy, and in 2004 he acquired a number of other qualifications. He has long-standing experience in the field of energy and has held the position of Chief-Department of Internal Affairs Control in the Department of Electrical Distribution in Sofia EAD, Chief-department of Internal Company Control in the Department of Electricity Distribution in Sofia EAD, CEZ Group. From 2007 to 2011 he is CEO of Business Energy Bulgaria AD and from 2011 to 2013 he is an energy expert. In 2015, Mr. Alexander Yordanov was elected a member of the KEWRC in the field of energy and for three years performed with professionalism and expertise his duties and contributed to the good work of the energy regulator. Mr. Alexander Yordanov has the necessary education and professional qualities and, on these grounds, the MPs from NFSB in the group of................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Mr. Georgi Zlatev's application was submitted by Mr. Plamen Hristov. Please submit the application.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u16	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! I present to you Mr. Georgi Zlatev's candidacy as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Zlatev graduated from the Higher Engineering Institute in the city. Varna, specialty "Electroenergetics" with acquired qualification "Electroengineer," Master. His professional career began in 1978 by successively passing through the posts: He was the head of structural-determining enterprises in the sector....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Zlatev was appointed Executive Director of the City of Galabovo and in 2014 he was Executive Director of the City of Radnevo. Next, Mr. Zlatev has been a member of the KEWRC since April 2015 until now. Mr. Zlatev has been involved in the development of a number of strategies for the development of heating companies, as well as numerous projects in the public and private sectors that have contributed to the development of energy. With his professional growth over the years as an energy expert, Mr. Zlatev has proven himself to be an excellent professional and lead shot. The candidate I represent enjoys a good name and reputation in society and in the sector. He proved by his work that he was not afraid to take responsibility and to bear responsibility for his decisions. By fulfilling his duties in various positions he has held, Mr. Zlatev has proved his competence and motivation for work. In view of the foregoing, I believe that Mr. Zlatev has the necessary education, extensive professional experience, good public reputation and moral qualities and I propose Mr. Georgi Zlatev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Evden Nikolov's candidacy will present Mr. Veselinov. Here you go, you're an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you the candidacy of Evden Nikolov. He graduated from Accounting and Control at the Economic Academy of Svishtov, 1997, with acquired postgraduate qualification of Valuten and customs control. In August 2000, he started working in "Britedon Trade" Ltd., in the position of "Specialist commercial operations" and the activity is in the implementation, provision and supply of energy companies using coal as the main fuel component. We are talking about TPP "Varna", Ruse, TPP "Maritsa Iztok-3", Heatfication Vratsa and others. He was directly involved in the preparation and participation in tender procedures, negotiated procedures with electricity and heat producers, including exports of briquettes from Since April 2001, he has been working at TPP Maritsa Iztok-3. He knows perfectly well the production processes and the operation of the power plant. He is directly involved in the processes of transferring NEK EAD's assets to the newly formed joint company. Supports the work of the Du Diligences of audit companies involved in the process. The experience gained at the TPP Maritsa Iztok-3 is validating it as a leader, organizer of financial activities at the second largest thermal power plant and one of the leading producers of electricity in Bulgaria. In 2006, he started his own company again in the field of energy. In early 2010, he started working as an audit consultant and risk assessment at NEK EAD. Directly audited the implementation of investment sites in the construction of electricity lines, rehabilitation and expansion of substations and so on. Organizes and creates the risk register and strategies for risk management in NEK EAD. He was subsequently appointed Head of the Internal Audit and Control Department in NEK EAD. Makes planned and ongoing audit commitments in all structural and organizational units of NEK EAD. He is familiar with the risks and manufacturing processes and activities in the company, including in its activities as a public supplier of electricity, a manufacturer of electricity. energy supplier of last resort and so on, including an investor in the NPP Belene. The professional and organizational skills and competences of the applicant can be summarized as a successful identification, management risks, quality of work control, efficiency of the implementation of the company activity, organizer of financial and economic activities and accountability of the business entities, compiler and analyst of the draft budgets, financial and management reports, organizer and performer of checks and control events, analyst of market trends with in-depth and comprehensive knowledge in the electricity sector and the economic reporting of energy companies. To conclude, I would like to point out that Evden Nikolov has all the necessary qualities set out as requirements for a member of the KEWRC. We believe that with its operationality and organisation in the work will contribute to the validation and improvement of the activities of the KEWRC.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. People's representative Plamen Hristov will present Mrs. Penka Trendafilova's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, honourable candidates for members of the KEWRC! I present to you Mrs. Penka Trendafilova's candidacy as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mrs. Trendafilova has two Master's Degrees: Her professional development Mrs. Trendafilova started as chief accountant in the profilerium of the Neftochemical combinat. The same position is held in the PFC Neftochemics &amp; since 2002 is a guide to the financial and economic direction in the city of Burgas. Ms. Trendafilova enjoys a good name and has proved her motivation and competence over the years. With her many years of experience in the field of water supply and sewerage, Mrs. Trendafilova has established herself as a professional with excellent expertise and management qualities, which would contribute significantly to the good work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In view of the above, I propose that Mrs. Trendafilova be elected a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the field of water supply and sewerage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Christov. And Mr. Remzi Osman's candidacy is Mr. Ramadan Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. On the basis of a decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of procedural rules for conducting lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, as well as for proposing candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for the election by the National Assembly, we propose that Mr Remzi Osman be elected as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Remzi Osman has experience as a lawyer. He is a member of the Sofia Bar Association, a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the period 2015. Until now. He was elected as a representative of the National Assembly consecutively at seven national meetings. He has been a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Local Government and Public Works throughout this period, including the Chair of the same Committee for two mandates. He was also vice-chairman for the period 1997-2001. In parallel, he was a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs several mandates. During all these years, he has actively participated in the preparation and adoption of regional policy, local self-government, territory, water and energy sector regulations. He graduated from UNWE in 1997. He's in law school. As a lawyer in the Water and Energy Regulatory Commission, Mr Remzi Osman was elected Commissioner in 2015. The first term of office of the newly elected committee. For three years he has carried out his mandate with exceptional professionalism and has contributed substantially to the good work and to the Commission's climate for energy and water regulation. In view of the above, we believe that Mr Remzi Osman has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation for taking up the position of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. This was the final submission of the applications. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. I don't see any requests for speeches. I close the debate and we start with the vote. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 12, para. 1, t. In accordance with Article 2 (2) (b) of the Energy Act, taking into account the results of the drawing-up of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the first term of office pursuant to § 41 of the previous and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act carried out by the Energy Commission on 4 April 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing the termination of the mandate of Valentin Dimitrov Petkov. 2. He elected Penka Markova Trendafilova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a period of five years. Please vote. They voted 120 MPs: 116, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next vote. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 12, para. 1, t. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Energy Act, taking into account the results of the drawing-up of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the first term of office pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act carried out by the Energy Commission on 4 April 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing the termination of the mandate of Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov/Georgi Tonev Zlatev. 2. He elected Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a period of 5 years. Please, voting mode. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 12, para. 1, t. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Energy Act, taking into account the results of the drawing-up of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the first term of office pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act carried out by the Energy Commission on 4 April 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing the termination of the mandate of Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov/Georgi Tonev Zlatev. 2. He elected Evden Todorov Nikolov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a period of 5 years. Please, voting mode. They voted 120 MPs: 29, none, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 12, para. 1, t. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Energy Act, taking into account the results of the drawing-up of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the first term of office pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act carried out by the Energy Commission on 4 April 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing the termination of the mandate of Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov/Georgi Tonev Zlatev. 2. He elected Georgi Tonev Zlatev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a period of 5 years. Please, voting mode. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The latest proposal for Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 12, para. 1, t. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Energy Act, taking into account the results of the drawing-up of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the first term of office pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act carried out by the Energy Commission on 4 April 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing Remzi Durmush Osman's termination of his term of office. 2. He chose Remzi Durmush Osman as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for a period of 5 years. Please, voting mode. They voted 116 MPs: 115, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The elected members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission are Mr. Remzi Durmush Osman, Mr. Georgi Tonev Zlatev, Mrs. Penka Markova Trendafilova and Mr. Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov. Please, the elected Members, come and swear. Please, colleagues, let's get up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u24	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u25	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY I'll show you where we are. By importer we have speeches. By § 7 spoke Iskren Veselinov, Ramadan Atali, Delyan Dobrev, Krum Zarkov, Atanas Kostadinov and Julian Angelov. We continue with the debate as we have expressed statements. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bojankov. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! Unfortunately, you understood Mr Tusk's words in your own way when he reminded us that Bulgaria offers newer, newer beauty at every glance. You started this presidency with a corruption scandal about the NDK. Logically, you end it with an even bigger scandal. If, colleagues, you are accused of undermining the inclusion of young people in politics, then you can always object that your new tiles in front of the National Palace of Culture represent a kind of skateboard park, and this is a living youth policy. We leave aside how humiliating Bulgaria is to be represented in this way. The main problem is that the young people themselves see precisely in the Bulgarian Presidency undermining and threatening the inclusion of young people in politics. And not only that, but the destruction of labor for generations in this direction. That's not what BSP says, that's not what the opposition says. That's what the youngsters themselves say. We are not talking about an organizational omission, because, fellow Members, you view young people as nuts in a party machine, who applaud when they have a warrant for it. But this is not a forum of the youth GERB and here jokes are not working, maybe this time we should be grateful that at least they didn't kiss a hand. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In a typical style, the Prime Minister sent a profound philosophical message to future generations: [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now they're lit up, too. Our young ones have long been given the light of who to become a shepherd, who to plant potatoes. At this point, we may recall other strategic thoughts of our Prime Minister, who reminded us how ministers personally and hand in hand carry storks or marshmallows. You may think this is normal, but only young people tell you there's something wrong here. Again, young people had the courage to ask the Prime Minister who he saw in the mirror. Again, young people ask: is this the way to spend European money? Apparently only young people have the courage to ask for another Europe and another Bulgaria. Some of them you can cause to applaud under command, but this is not totalitarian mode this is Bulgaria, this is Europe, and there will always be those who ask without having pre-written questions. Remember that! If, colleagues, we are used to the people paying for all the fixed orders and mistakes of management, let the government pay for the booze and dancers from their party subsidy because Europe refuses to do so this time! [[World and long applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. We continue with speeches. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The flower bouquet is missing. [[Laughter]] Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! The future of young people and their development is a top priority of both the political party GERB and the government. I'm very interested in all these things that my colleague before me says, where exactly have they been quoted and who is actually feeding them this information? Those things that are mentioned have nothing to do with reality. The European Youth Conference held in Sofia in the period 17 April 2018 is the most successful youth conference ever held. [[Applause from GERB, cheering and whistling from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the first time 11 goals and priorities are written to be for young people in Bulgaria and across Europe, 250 young people from over 40 countries, including the Western Balkans, is this the failure for you? It just hurts you that the Presidency is successful, it hurts you that there are praises from all over Europe for Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]] Yesterday, in a special letter to Minister Krasen Kralev from the Director for Central and Eastern Europe, it was mentioned that the conference that took place in this period was the most successful conference. And here I want to ask, where exactly does your information come from, is it coming from your political persons who have been brought into this organization?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u29	That's enough! From TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u30	What's on TV? Alvarado, which you all quote, was present for exactly one day at the Conference, the last day, where did he get these impressions? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u32	Please, honourable Members, do not criticize when you have no facts and you have no compelling evidence. The Youth Conference is the most successful youth conference held so far, and this has been proved by supporting letters, it has also been proven by opinions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. We continue with the Second Reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. A statement was made by Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As in a multiserial film, given yesterday's interruption of the debates, although we wanted them to be started from the very beginning today, I will make a brief review of what happened yesterday, so that you have not forgotten by accident, and to know what the connection is to what is to be said now, at the moment. Otherwise, I'm starting to talk about something that people don't remember what happened yesterday. Yesterday, when the Commission's report on amendment and supplement to the Energy Act was read, there was a disagreement between the parliamentary parties, because the Report and the text proposed by the Commission had missed a proposal by the United Patriarchs, which was the basis of their bill. We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, consistent in its policy for more energy state, raised the question that the KEWRC should now be authorised, after claiming that it is not such, to exercise control and to be able to grant permissions to deal with undertakings that could violate the security of energy supply, regardless of its nature, the protection of our national security and public order. Quite an emotional statement has been made, as you recall. I'm going to try now to be a little more constructive and concrete. I remind you that during the first reading of all, except for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which we were consistent in our policy yesterday, we voted to adopt the text of the Patriots in the Bill. We voted in the belief that it is only in this way that we can guarantee the peace of the people, and only in this way can we change the existing situation in which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has rights indeed to those companies to which it has granted a licence, but only once problems have been identified or these problems have started. There are no ones who allow such problems not to be allowed to come to them. In this regard, we still support this decision by the Patriots and this text. We believe that, in this way, the Energy and Water Regulator Commission, having given it the opportunity to self-finance once we have given more remuneration to its employees, to have more responsibilities to meet the requirements of an independent regulator, which ensures the smooth functioning of the system. Madam President, in this regard and in order for us to be constructive, yesterday was proposed by colleagues from.......................................................................................... 23a to be voted separately, but since it is not in the text of the Commission that we need to vote, I am making the following editorial changes: In § 1, which becomes § 7, I propose the following editorial amendments: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5, as we have spoken with the lawyers of the National Assembly, the word "licensiants" is replaced by the expression "skilling enterprises receiving licenses."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u35	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5, t. 22 a.k.a. by the owners of... a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u36	The word "licensiants" is replaced. It is requested from owners of energy enterprises that received licences under this law. That is to say, we replace the word "licensians" with the expression "suspicious enterprises" received licenses. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6. after the words are created we add. 23a, and we add the text to this. 23a by importer, as follows: 23a. It authorises actions under an arrangement of shares representing more than 20 per cent of the capital of commercial companies engaged in a licensing activity in the transmission and distribution of electricity, heat or gas, with a view to ensuring the security of supply, the protection of national security and public order. I think that we are also meeting the expectations of society for legislative changes that will allow the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to carry out its work on prevention as well, not just on the eradication of the consequences, and we will bring some comfort to people that, as legislators, we take care of their interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u38	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members! We are already entering into a very serious change in our proposed report amending and supplementing the Energy Act. This is not an editorial proposal that can be made in a room. This is the reversal and return of the initial philosophy, which I think in the Commission was rejected by a majority. I therefore believe that under the Rules of the National Assembly should not be adopted, first. Second, the distribution is not on the national security list. Yesterday we heard from Mr. Dobrev, who said that if we accept such text, the production and distribution of bread is also national security. Is that where the state will have to give prior consent to sell your oven? I ask you once again, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, a large enterprise such as the Kremikovtsi, when it was sold for a dollar, you did not then oppose. When this enterprise was then sold to a young boy at the age of 21, you voted, then you did not propose such an amendment and an addition. You ruined a whole sector of Bulgaria's heavy industry. At the moment, with your attempts to get the state to intervene in transactions that are already in progress and in progress, you will also make arbitration win, you will also make those who are currently going through the deal make demands to break this deal, demands for the equivalent of the transaction that has taken place. [[The President gives a sound signal that time has run out.]] It's very easy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u39	You have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I'll have a little more time to explain to the MPs. I hope at least these Democrats among GERB, like Mr. Georgi Markov, Mr. Gurnevski, understand what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u42	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, you are not right that we are making substantial changes, on the contrary, we are inserting a text that has been adopted at first reading in plenary, and we are putting it where it belongs so that it can be voted on. There was a proposal from the Patriots that I'm joining. 23a to be voted separately, there is no problem in doing so. Once again, I suggest it as an option. In order for it to be voted, it must enter into the text of what we are voting on and not be somewhere hanging. That's why I'm putting an editorial amendment into the body of the text that's being read on the report. Totally normal procedure, nothing new, nothing illegal. As for the fact that the distribution of power is not at all on the national security list, yes, it is. Because it's about transport of energy from generating power to end-user, but we've only put as national security high voltage and state property. The rest that's after high pressure, dogs to eat it, is that it? We cannot have a division of the transport of energy with high and low voltage and this is a reason for one to be on the national security list and the other not to be on that list. You're giving me a good idea: let's also offer the distribution to get on the list as a national security activity so there's no problem. Finally, I would like to say once again: when it comes to bread, we hold the grain. You know, it's a strategic raw material, there's a state reserve, there's also the state interfering, protecting its interests, giving orders and filling its state reserve with grain. Let us not put bread into electricity, moreover, that when there are over one million companies producing bread, and only three ERPs dealing with electricity distribution, this is not serious and we are a little bit out of the question. As for whether, why and how we have not voted in the past, everyone has made their mistakes, we are currently trying to correct them. And the last thing I want to say. In my speech, I never once used the word "CEZ" or "Ms. Varbakova" I talked about things in general so as not to make such mistakes in general. The fact that someone guessed or recognized that it was about CEZ is no longer my problem, it's the problem of the person who got it right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Nikolov has made a statement. Mr. Boychev, come in. Tolerance to the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u44	Thank you for this gesture, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a statement in favour of the proposals Mr. Ermenkov made just now to the paragraph we have discussed. They are in the spirit of the proposals adopted by us here at the first reading of the draft submitted by the United Patriarchs. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has regulatory and supervisory powers. He has license to issue licences, to change those licences, to revoke those licences and to suspend those licences to the electricity distribution companies. However, it does not currently have the power to rule on the approval and transfer of shares of these companies. Like fellow Krum Zarkov here yesterday, from this tribune, gave a very appropriate example of the situation at the time when the electricity distribution companies should ask the regulator's consent to sell a trappost, but the situation we are currently in with the deal with CEZ, when you sell the entire enterprise, the regulator is not even informed. At present, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has not been informed of this transaction, and it considers that there is no right and reason to intervene in it. With the changes we are proposing today, I think we are protecting the public interest. The state has so far been deprived of such a tool to protect the public interest in this type of transaction, because we are talking about a monopoly supplier, we are not talking about a service that you can get from anywhere. We're talking about assets that I think are assets from energy critical infrastructure. We are talking about a service that has huge social dimensions and on top of that directly affects the country's security. I therefore believe that the proposals so made will enable the regulator to really have these powers to pronounce and approve such transactions. [[GERB's line.]] Okay, I'm explaining that kind of deal. Because at the moment, this claim that the state has enough mechanisms does not correspond to the truth. See, the Commission for Protection of Competition must rule on the CEZ deal, but it will rule from the point of view of market influence and concentration. That's where CEZ works, no problem. The Financial Supervision Commission will rule on the transaction in terms of whether the Law is respected and whether the tender proposal will be made by the new majority owner to the minority shareholders. In essence, it turns out that there is no institution that can stop this deal right now. There is no European country that can take care of who acquires the ownership of such assets, which, again, I say, are an element of national security and provide a service with a huge social dimension for citizens. I therefore hope that this House will support and protect the public interest by giving this instrument to the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Dobrev, come in for a line. Colleagues, let's welcome our guests to the balcony [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u46	Dear Mr. Boychev, in order to calm the passions, we see that both our colleagues from "United Patriarchs" and the BSP insist on this text very much, although we have had some doubts, we have a political decision to adopt the text of art. 23a, so I suggest we proceed to the vote on the Paragraph 7. We support your proposals, as we have done for the Temporary Committee for CEZ, including the election of President. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u47	Is that a line, or do you have a procedure to end the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u48	It's a line. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no duplicate, but a procedure to end the debate. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u49	All right, folks, let's get to the polls. Then, first of all, we have to vote to enter art. 23a in the Commission Report, as it is not here, but in the first-reading report it was there. We vote to enter the Second Reading Report art. 23a c t. 6 and so on. 6 to look like this: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 41a, t. 41b et cetera.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u50	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u51	They voted 167 MPs: 152 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dobrev, let's do the editorial amendment, let's do it in a row, because art. 23a's in. Let's get to the point. 5, where Mr. Ermenkov proposed that the replacement of the energy enterprise be replaced by the. This is because the Official Journal of the European Union defines an energy undertaking as being on the basis of a licence issued. So his proposal for a claim is dismissed and remains only an energy enterprise. 5 instead of................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 160 MPs: 143 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now we're going to t. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u52	In the same paragraph there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase, which is for dropping out of art. 23a. The Commission in the report supported it, but since it was adopted art. 23a...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u53	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u54	Now I'll give you a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u55	...for clarity, I suggest that we make a separate announcement of the proposal of Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan A base for dropping out, which in this case the House has supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u56	Mr. Dobrev, let's take a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u57	Madam President, so that there is no confusion, as art. 23a has already been adopted, in this sense, the point is lost in voting on a proposal to drop the text already adopted by the House. That means I'm withdrawing my offer. As all other proposals are supported, let us proceed to the vote of § 7 on the Commission proposal with the adopted text of art. 23a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u58	Please vote on § 7 with the corresponding corrections and accepted proposals. Vote 158 MPs: 142 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u59	Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. 83, al...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u60	Sorry, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Atalay, because you didn't give me a sign, I thought you'd given up. Negative vote, come in. [[Replications from the MPs Julian Angelov and Milen Mihov.]] He asked for a negative vote that I didn't give him. Now I reserve the right to give him a negative vote. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Even if he spoke, I made a commitment in front of him. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u61	Dear lady... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u62	Colleagues, I've decided to make an exception because I didn't keep my commitment before I gave Mr. Atalay a statement for a negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u63	Colleagues, we voted three times the same text, and on three times I wanted a negative vote, obviously you have...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u64	Get to the point, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u65	...some concern, some guilty conscience, something is chasing you in all likelihood. My fellow Members, what we have adopted at the moment is a political decision, and from now on, we can hardly distinguish between the left and the right in this Parliament. This approach, which you have now taken for interference in private relationships, and it is commercial, does not speak well of the state. The message you sent to every investor is: from now on you cannot build anything without the permission of the state. Even in Todor Zhivkov's day, that wasn't it. I was surprised when there were protests before the Council of Ministers, why didn't the Prime Minister come out in front of them? Now I am convinced that if there is such a protest to intervene the state in all private transactions in this country, and the Prime Minister should be there. Yesterday, when I told you: colleagues, you haven't understood in a year you've given them coalition partners, now you may already understand. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] I told you that you led them to the abyss...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u66	Negative vote, not a political statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u67	...but today I see that GERB didn't respond to you so well. Good use of the BSP, too. [[Noise and lines.]] But, guys...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u68	Mr. Atalay, time's up. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]] We're moving on. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u69	Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following 1. In para. 1 words................................................................................. 10,21' are replaced 2. A new para is being created. 2: In the exercise of its power under art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 The Commission applies the criteria lower price, seasonality and coverage of peak loads. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u70	You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u71	Dear Mr. President, I would like to take the floor in the manner of conduct and express my personal disapproval for the way Mrs. Karayancheva is led. In defiance of the Rules of Procedure, she gave the floor for a negative vote to the MP who spoke. You didn't notice my request to take the floor on how to conduct it, and I see it as a personal disregard for my character, not as a disregard for the United Patriarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We'll take this note from now on. Are there any requests for statements on the reported § 8? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u73	There is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Commission's budget is part of the state budget and is drawn up, implemented and accounted for under the Public Finance Act. (4) The budget of the Commission shall include all revenue and resources under art. 27, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u74	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on § 9 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u75	There is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) c. 2 the words "30 per cent" shall be deleted; (c) point 4: shall be created: "4." subsidy from the central budget. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Commission's budget cannot provide for the financing of expenditure and the provision of transfers at the expense of revenue under para. 1, t. 2 to be reported as a contribution to the central budget. 3. A new para is being created. 5. In the case of overrun of income under para. 1, t. 1 and 3 as well as in the case of outstanding amounts of expenditure and transfers for the financial year concerned, additional expenditure and payments for transfers under the Commission's budget for the following year may be approved under the terms and conditions of the Public Finance Act. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 5. The creation of para. 7. At the end of the current year the unused stocks of the budget shall be transferred as income to the fund under art. 36b.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any statements on the proposed text for § 10? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the wording of Paragraph 10 of the Commission Report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u77	By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u78	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. I shall put to the vote § 2 which shall become § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u79	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u80	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission for § 3, which becomes § 12. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u81	Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The Commission shall be entitled, where necessary, to amend the defined premiums, but not more frequently than once every 6 months, provided that there is a significant change between the estimated market price for base load for that period, compared to the achieved and estimated premium for the remaining period, in an organised stock market. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u82	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the proposed text for Paragraph 13 of the Commission Report Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u84	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the proposed import text for § 4, supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u85	Under § 5, a proposal was made by the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u86	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the text of § 5, which becomes § 15 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u87	According to § 6 a proposal was made by the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 6 31, t. 2 of the Bill is amended as follows: In the case of the electricity sector, the energy undertaking shall be entitled to submit a request to the Power System Security Fund for the compensation of costs under para. 2, p. 3 and 3a. "Secure of the power system" claimed the costs under para. 2, p. 3 and 3a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u88	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u89	Mr. Atalay says he's withdrawing the offer, so there's no point in putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u90	Is it wrong, Mr. Atalay, for the shorthand to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u91	The committee withdrew it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u92	In the Commission, you claim that it has been withdrawn? It wasn't reflected in the report. You withdraw the offer, I repeat your words. We move on to speeches on the proposal, as reflected in the Commission report presented by Mr Dobrev. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 16. Vote 112 MPs: 105, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u94	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of § 7, which becomes § 17 of the Commission Report. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u95	According to § 8 there is a proposal made by the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan A base. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u96	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the text of § 8 by importer, which becomes § 18. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u97	Under § 9, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u98	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches on the reported paragraph. We are going to vote on the import text for § 9, which becomes § 19 in the Report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u99	Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be added for a period of 5 years. 2. A new para is being created. 3: After the expiry of the period referred to in para. 2 members of the management board of the fund may be re-appointed as members only for a further period of 5 years. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become para. 4 and 5. 4. A new para is being created. 6: The Chair of the Management Board shall: 1. organise the implementation of the decisions of the Management Board; 2. organize and manage the activities of the administration of the fund; 3. schedule and manage the meetings of the Management Board; 4. represent the fund in its relations with third parties; 5. appoint and dismiss employees from the administration. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7. 6. They're creating an al. 8? 10: The mandate of a member of the Management Board of the Fund shall be terminated in advance: 1. at his request; 2. in case of incompatibility; 3. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. when convicted of a common offence with an act in force; 5. in the event of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties; 6. in the event of death. (9) In cases of early termination of a member of the Management Board of the Fund, a new member shall be appointed within two months of termination. The newly elected member shall complete the term of office of the person in whose place he is elected. (10) The remuneration of the members of the Management Board of the Fund shall be determined as follows: 1. the President's "93 per cent of three average monthly salaries of employees by labour and by service in the sector "Production and distribution of electricity and heat and fuels" according to the data of the National Statistical Institute; 2. to the other members.. one third of the remuneration of the President under point 2. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u100	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u101	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make two editorial amendments. In fact, one is legal and technical and the other is editorial. 5 in the so far al. 5 to be added........................................................................................................ Then the text reads:....................................................................................................... Seven The numbering is changed downwards and in t. 6 are set up not ss 8 and 10s, but s9 and 11s. And, respectively,.. 8 and 9 and
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u102	Alinei 8, 9 and 10 in the text you read.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u103	In the text I read, they become "al." 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u104	I will put this proposal to the vote. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u105	One more suggestion I'd like to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u106	First let's vote on these editorial changes on Mr. Dobrev's proposal. May I have everyone's attention, please? Editorial proposals were made, which are expressed in changing the numbering of the paragraphs to the proposed text. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the MP Delyan Dobrev. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u107	One more suggestion, if I may, Mr. Chairman. In para. 10, c. 1 which reads to the President "93 per cent" the words "93 per cent" to be replaced by "two thirds." The reason is that 93 percent of three average monthly salaries is perhaps disproportionately high remuneration for the President of the Fund. In this sense, I propose that this remuneration be two thirds of the three average monthly salaries. My specific proposal is to replace it with two thirds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u108	Just to clarify that we are talking about a proposal to amend the text under point 1. 1 of art. 10 on the Report, which we agreed to be art. We changed it with the previous decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u109	Alinea 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u110	We've changed her numbers with the previous vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u111	That's right, she's already al. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u112	Is there any misunderstandings about this proposal? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on Mr. Dobrev's proposal to change the text to para. 11 of the § 20 concerned. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the whole text of the Commission's proposals § 20 with the editorial changes made as a result of the votes just taken in today's sitting. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u113	The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The Governing Council shall manage the Fund by guided by the following principles: 1. independence; 2. transparency in the management of the funds; 3. traceability and accountability of all revenue and expenditure; 4. objectivity in decision-making. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u114	Are there any statements to the proposed text? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the proposed text for a new § 21 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u115	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 6 and 7: It's six. revenue under art. 27, para. 7. 7. revenue from the price and/or component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17; "Stephen'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The funds referred to in para. 1 shall be spent for maintenance related to the activities of the fund and to cover the costs under art. 36b, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. He's creating an al. 3: The support funds related to the activities of the fund shall be one hundred of the funds collected under para. 1, t. 1 and 3............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u116	Are there any speeches? There are no requests to make a statement. We are going to vote on the text of the Commission Report on § 10 which becomes § 22. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Honourable MPs, a parliamentary delegation led by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Vietnam is held at the Balcona plenary. Our Vietnamese colleagues are visiting Bulgaria. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Thank you. Let's get back to work, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u117	According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36f The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1, ct. 1 shall be added at the end for those who receive a premium under Art. 1. 162a and under the Renewable Energy Act and its revenue excluding VAT. 2. In para. 2 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 3. Allinei 5, 6 and 7 are canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u118	Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak on the proposed text for § 11, which becomes § 23? I don't see any requests for a statement. We are going to vote on the text presented in § 11, which becomes § 23. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u119	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. A new article is being created. Art. 36g. 36h and 36i: Art. 36g. (1) Invoiced funds from the price and/or component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 shall be contributed to the fund by: 1. a trader, a producer, an organised stock market operator and a last resort supplier entering into transactions at freely negotiated prices with end-users connected to the electricity system; 2. final supplier who enters into transactions at regulated prices with final customers; 3. a transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators for the electricity consumed for technological costs. (2) The funds shall be paid up to the 20th of the month following the month to which they relate and shall be recognised as operating expenditure for tax purposes. (3) The obligations of traders and producers under para. 1 for the current month shall be secured with a bank guarantee and/or a deposit in cash on the fund's bank account of 150 percent of the highest monthly value of the product of the price and/or the price component under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 and the amount of electricity sold by them to final customers for the previous 12 months. In the absence of data for the previous 12 months, the collateral shall amount to 150 percent of the highest monthly value for the previous months, for which data are available, but not less than 20 000 BGN. (4) When the obligations under para. 1 are secured by a bank guarantee, its validity period is 12 months. (5) When the obligations under para. 1 is secured by a deposit, no interest is due on it. (6) When the obligations under para. 1 shall be executed for exactly 12 consecutive months the bank guarantee and/or deposit for the month following that period shall be reduced to 100 percent of the highest monthly value of the product of the price and/or the component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 and the amount of electricity sold by the trader or producer to final customers for the previous 12 months. (7) When the obligations under para. 1 shall be executed for exactly 24 consecutive months the bank guarantee and/or deposit for the month following that period shall be reduced to 50 percent of the highest monthly value of the product of the price and/or the component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 and the amount of electricity sold by the trader or producer to final customers for the previous 12 months. (8) The Fund shall check the amount of collateral on a monthly basis and shall notify the trader or the manufacturer of the alignment of the bank guarantee and/or deposit in accordance with the requirements. The trader or manufacturer shall, within 7 days of receipt of the notification, submit an updated bank guarantee and/or deposit. (9) In the event of default by a trader or a producer of obligations under this Article, the fund shall take action to absorb the collateral provided in the amount of the liabilities under para. 1 and submit to the independent transmission operator a request for its removal from the electricity market. Art. 36z. (1) The contributions under 36f, para. 1 and the means of 36e, para. 1, t. 6 are public government claims subject to enforcement by a public contractor under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The instrument establishing the claim shall be issued by the President of the Fund. (2) The funds and operations of the fund shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act and are not part of the state budget. (3) The funds of the fund shall not be the subject of the seizure and shall be non-secvestable. Art. 36th. (1) The Fund shall conclude with a producer under art. 162a and producers with a total installed capacity of 4 MW and more than 4 MW under the Renewable Energy Act. (2) The premium shall not be paid when a producer under para. 1 has obligations to the fund, and in this case the fund does not owe interest for the delay. (3) The Fund shall not owe a premium for the quantities of electricity for which a producer under para. 1: 1. he has not entered into a deal in accordance with Article 1. 100, para. 3 and/or 5 or on a balancing market; 2. no transfer of monthly certificates of origin or guarantees of origin under art. 34 of the Renewable Energy Act. (4) The Fund shall pay the premium by the end of the month in which, at the 20th period, a supporting document has been submitted and it shall have been transferred with monthly certificates of origin or guarantee of origin under art. 34 of the Renewable Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u120	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, if I may suggest editorial............................................................................................. 36z, para. 1, t. 6 to become t. 7. It's an editorial proposal, an error in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u122	It's more like we're solving a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u123	We're removing an error in the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u124	However, I will have to put this proposal to the vote. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Dobrev in art. 36h, in a sentence first the proposal under art. 36d, para. 1, t. 6 "To be read" by art. 36d, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the paragraph reported on a proposal from the importer, supported by the Commission, in the version of the Commission's report, which is § 12, which becomes § 24. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u125	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The current article. Art. 36g becomes Art. 36k.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u126	Thank you. Are there any speeches? No statements have been made. We are going to vote on the proposed version by the Commission with the adopted text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 25. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u127	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 2 words. 5, 6, 7, 10 and 13 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 13
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u128	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed text for a new Paragraph 26 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u129	According to § 14 there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u130	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u131	Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! What the Commission has proposed to remove the text was in the sense of the entire report so far and that Article. 21, para. 1, t. 23a didn't exist. Now by voting the National Assembly here, which we attended, we have decided that in art. 21, para. 1 is going to have t. 23a and it is quite natural, following the philosophy of this article, which is part of the bill submitted by the United patriots, to comply with the importer and to reject the Commission's proposal, leaving the text of the importer to be effective. Once again, this is about something that we have already solved in the National Assembly. That's one logical step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u133	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u134	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a line to Mr. Ermenkov. Actually, Mr. Ermenkov is right. I'm sorry I have to say it in a line. Because we've already accepted them. 23a, that is, in this case, we should also adopt § 14, that is, we should vote against the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u136	Thank you. Are there any other statements? [[Reply of rapporteur Delyan Dobrev to President Yavor Notev.]] If there are no other speeches, we shall proceed to the vote. First, I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan A base for dropping § 14. Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 64 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for a text of § 14 by importer, which shall become § 27 according to the importer's proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Time's up until recess, I'm calling a 30-minute recess until 12:00 a.m. with a recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u137	I ask the Quaestors to urge the MPs to enter the Chamber. Moving on to § 15. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, before the break we adopted § 14, which became § 27. This will require the renumbering of the paragraphs by the referees subsequently. For the sake of clarity of the House, we will read the paragraphs as proposed by the Commission, and then they will be renumbered by the National Assembly referees. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 27. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 28, and shall propose the following version: ....... 28........................................... 28 The creation of Chapter................................................................................................... 74 ..the head................................................................ CONTROL OF THE IMPLEMENTING OF REGULATION (EU) No 1227/2011 Art. 74a. (1) The Commission may be referred to the Commission for infringement of art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of: 1. a market participant or a parent undertaking or a related undertaking within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011; 2. a person carrying out trades by occupation within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011; 3. a person whose interests are violated or threatened by the infringement; 4. a regulatory authority of a Member State of the European Union or of the ASRE; 5. state body; 6. Prosecutor. (2) On the basis of a request made by a person under para. 1 The chairman of the commission shall appoint officials to carry out a preliminary examination of the existence of a reasoned assumption of infringement. (3) Preliminary examination of the existence of a reasoned assumption of infringement may be initiated on the basis of an order of the President of the Commission. (4) For the preliminary examination carried out, the officials under para. 2 prepare a report. A common study report shall be drawn up in a joint study with other regulatory authorities. (5) The chairman of the committee shall hold a closed session at which the committee shall examine the report under para. 4 and decide on: 1. the formation of proceedings for the detection of infringement of art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011, which shall immediately notify the ASRE; the decision shall not be subject to appeal; 2. termination of the preliminary study. (6) In the cases under para. 5, t. 1 The chairman of the commission shall designate by order officials who shall carry out an inspection to establish an infringement under art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011. (7) The person inspected shall be informed that proceedings have been initiated for the detection of infringement under art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 following its formation or when carrying out the on-the-spot verification. (8) The decisions and minutes of the meetings of the committee relating to the preliminary examination and the identification of infringement under art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 shall not be published on the Commission's website. Art. 74b. (1) Officials under art. 74a, para. 6 when carrying out the check for the detection of infringement under art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 are entitled to: 1. require information and/or documents, material, written, digital and electronic evidence, regardless of the carrier on which they were stored, and obtain a copy thereof; 2. remove oral or written explanations from all persons concerned with the case, including those who participate consistently in the transmission of orders or in the execution of the relevant operations, as well as from their contracting entities and, if necessary, call and hear any such person or contracting entity; 3. carry out on-the-spot checks; 4. propose to the Commission to entrust the expertise by an external expert; 5. propose to the Commission to implement the measure under art. 74l; 6. require through the Chair of the Commission information or assistance from another regulatory authority of a Member State of the European Union and/or the ACRE. (2) In carrying out the verification, the person to be checked, including his parent undertaking or related undertaking within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011, as well as the state and municipal authorities and their administrations shall be obliged to assist the officials of art. 74a, para. 6. Art. 74c. (1) Persons from whom information and/or documents are sought may not refer to a production, commercial or other secret protected by law. (2) The requested information and/or documents shall be provided within the time limit laid down by the officials of art. 74a, para. 6. The information to be provided shall be complete, accurate, reliable and not misleading. (3) Where the person requested information and/or documents prevent their collection, the Commission may accept the facts to which the information and/or documents relate as evidence. (4) Where documents and contain data giving rise to reasonable doubts and/or other infringements under Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 shall be seized and the Commission may, on the basis of them, initiate a new proceedings. (5) The information and/or documents collected in carrying out the infringement check shall be used only for the purposes of control under this Chapter. Art. 74 C.E. (1) Oral explanations shall be taken and recorded by at least two officials appointed in the order under art. 74a, para. 6. (2) The minutes shall be signed by the person from whom the explanations have been removed and by the officials of art. 74a, para. 6. Art. 74e. Where a person who has given explanations or provided information and/or documents of infringement under Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 has reasonable grounds to believe that the disclosure of his identity would have serious adverse consequences for his or her activities or for his or her person, the Commission shall take measures to keep his or her identity secret under the order laid down in the ordinance under art. 60. Art. 74f. (1) The Commission may carry out an on-the-spot check of the person, including his parent undertaking or related undertaking within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 after obtaining an authorisation under art. 74g. (2) In the on-the-spot verification the officials of art. 74a, para. 6 shall be entitled to: 1. enter premises, vehicles and objects of the persons under para. 1; 2. review documents and records related to the activities of the persons under para. 1, including commercial or accounting documents regardless of the medium on which they are stored; 3. recall or receive on paper, digital or electronic media copies or extracts of documents, as well as existing records of phone calls and data transmission, regardless of the medium on which they are stored and, where this is not possible, recall the originals as well as other evidence; 4. seize or receive electronic evidence, as well as traffic data from all types of computer data media, computer systems and other media, and seize means of transmission of information; 5. receive access to all types of information media, including servers accessible through computer systems or other means located in the premises inspected; 6. seal for a specified period premises, vehicles and other objects used by the persons under para. 1; 7. take oral and written explanations from a representative or member of a governing body or from the staff of the persons under para. 1 for circumstances relating to the subject matter and purpose of the on-the-spot check. (3) In carrying out an on-the-spot inspection, the police authorities shall assist the officials of art. 74a, para. 6 according to their powers under the Act of the Ministry of Interior. The procedure for organising and conducting joint actions shall be determined by an instruction issued by the Minister of Interior and the Chair of the Commission. Art. 74g. (1) The on-the-spot check shall be carried out with the permission of a judge of the Administrative Court of Sofia, at the request of the Chair of the Commission, which shall contain: 1. the purpose of the on-the-spot check, the start and end date of the verification and the name of the person, including his parent undertaking or related undertaking within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 for which authorisation is sought; 2. the nature of the alleged infringement; 3. justification of the reasons for the on-the-spot verification; (2) The decision of the Committee on Art. 2 shall apply to the request for authorisation. 74a, para. 5, t. 1 and the order under art. 74a, para. 6. (3) The Administrative Court of the Sofia City shall rule on the request under para. 1 on the day of its entry into a closed session with a reasoned definition. In the order, the court shall indicate the person for whom authorisation is sought. The authorisation shall apply to all premises, vehicles and other objects used by the inspected person. The court shall communicate to the inspected person the definition by which it authorises an on-the-spot check on the day following the start date of the verification under the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) When the on-the-spot check is to be carried out simultaneously to several persons, the Chair of the Commission may submit a common request. In that case, the court shall rule with separate definitions for each person for whom authorisation is sought. (5) The definitions under para. 3 and 4 shall be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within three days of notification to the Commission, respectively, of the person or persons examined. The appeal doesn't stop the execution. The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule on the appeal in closed session with a reasoned order within three days of the date of its entry. (6) In the case of an effective order of the court refusing authorisation to carry out an on-the-spot check, the evidence collected in the course of the on-the-spot check shall be returned to the inspected person and shall not be taken into account in the proceedings. Art. 74h. (1) The gathering of evidence during the on-the-spot inspection shall be carried out by the officials of art. 74a, para. 6 in the presence of the person inspected, his or her employees or any other person entitled to attend the premises or vehicles or found during the inspection therein. (2) The copies of the documents seized shall be certified by an official of art. 74a, para. 6 and by the person examined or authorised by him. Upon refusal of a verified or authorised person to validate the documents, the certification shall be made by the official and the refusal shall be recorded in the minutes referred to in para. 7. (3) Information on electronic or digital media, electronic copies of documents and electronic evidence. (4) The original documents shall be seized in the state in which they were discovered during the verification and returned to the person inspected after the decision of the Committee on Art. 74n. (5) The original documents seized shall be returned before the decision of the Committee on Art. 74n when: 1. the exercise of rights under them is related to their actual conduct; 2. at the request of the inspected person. (6) In the cases under para. 5 The Commission shall use copies of the original documents which shall be certified by an official of the Commission and by the person inspected or authorised by him. (7) For the seized documents and evidence under para. 2 minutes shall be drawn up in a place with a complete and accurate inventory of the seized. The minutes shall be drawn up in duplicate, signed by the persons referred to in para. 2 and one copy thereof shall be made available to the person inspected. Art. 74i. (1) Where special knowledge is needed in order to clarify the circumstances of the proceedings, the Commission may, by decision, entrust the expertise to one or more external experts. The decision shall specify the expert, the task of the expert and the time limit for submitting a report with the expert conclusion, and shall be communicated to the verified person. (2) The expert may not be a person concerned directly or indirectly with the outcome of the proceedings. (3) Within three days of notification under para. 1 The person examined may request a reprieve of the expert determined in the decision by providing evidence in relation to para. 2. (4) Where the request is justified, the committee shall, by decision, assign the expertise to another external expert. (5) The expert conclusion shall not be mandatory for the Commission, but shall be discussed together with the other evidence collected during the proceedings. Art. 74k. (1) The person inspected shall have the right to access any evidence collected during the verification, except for materials containing a manufacturing, commercial or other secret protected by law. The Commission shall not be granted access to internal documents, including correspondence with ASRE and the regulatory authorities of Member States of the European Union. (2) Any person who provides information to the Commission in the course of the proceedings shall indicate the materials which he claims to contain a production, commercial or other secret protected by law and shall be considered confidential by the Commission. In such cases, the person shall justify his claims and provide the same materials in an option in which the data he considers confidential are deleted. Art. 74L. (1) In case in the proceedings initiated for the detection of infringement under art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 there is sufficient evidence of an infringement, in urgent cases, due to the risk of serious and irreparable damage to the electricity market, the Commission may require immediate suspension by the person inspected and/or his parent undertaking and/or related undertaking within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 in practice which is contrary to that Regulation or to delegated or implementing acts adopted on the basis of that Regulation. (2) The measure under para. 1 shall apply at any time in the course of the proceedings, by a decision of the Commission to be implemented without delay. (3) The decision under para. 2 shall be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of notification. The appeal of the decision shall not stop its execution. Art. Seventy-four meters. (1) After completion of the inspection the officials of art. 74a, para. 6 shall submit a report to the Commission. (2) The Chair shall hold a closed session at which the committee may: 1. give mandatory instructions for carrying out an additional study by setting a deadline for their implementation; 2. adopt the report and where the report contains a production, commercial or other secret protected by law and its summary. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 The officials referred to in art. 74a, para. 6 carry out the additional study to which they submit a report, subject to the order of para. 2. (4) The report, respectively, the summary of the report, shall be sent to the inspected person for submission of an opinion within a period set by the committee, but not less than one month. (5) Within the term under para. 4 The person examined shall be entitled to access the collected materials in the course of the proceedings, with the exception of those containing a manufacturing, commercial or other secret protected by law. (6) The Commission may set an open meeting at closed doors for the hearing of the inspected person. Art. 74n. (1) The Commission in closed session shall adopt a decision by which: 1. establish that no infringement has been committed or that no action has been taken to commit a violation of art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 and terminates proceedings; 2. establish that an infringement has been committed or that actions have been taken to commit a violation of art. 3 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011; by the decision the Commission shall impose the fine or penalty under art. 224d and may apply the measure under art. 74e. (2) The decision shall be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code, and the appeal shall be suspended except in the part of the decision imposing a measure under art. 74L. Art. 74o. (1) The Commission shall carry out preventive, current and subsequent controls to comply with the obligations under art. 4, 8, 9 and 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011. (2) In the execution of the control under para. 1 The Commission shall carry out checks by means of officials appointed by order of the Chair of the Commission. The checks shall be subject to art. 78, para. Two and three. (3) For the verification carried out, officials shall draw up a consolidated protocol to which the evidence collected shall apply. (4) The violations of art. 4, 8, 9 and 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 shall be established by an act establishing an administrative infringement which shall be drawn up by officials appointed by order of the President of the Commission. Art. 74p. In carrying out its activities under this Chapter, the Commission shall cooperate with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Competition Commission, the Consumer Protection Commission and the competent judicial authorities. The interaction and cooperation of the Commission with the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Financial Supervision Commission shall be carried out on the basis of joint rules adopted by the relevant committees. Art. 74p. (1) The Commission shall cooperate with the ASRE and regulatory authorities of other Member States of the European Union, receiving and cooperating and exchanging information under Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011. (2) The information exchanged shall be used by ensuring the same degree of protection as the regulatory authority of the Member State of the European Union or of the ASRE that makes it available.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I open the debates under § 15 and § 16. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We're going to vote. We are voting for § 15 which becomes § 27, supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. A statement on the next paragraph, most likely.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in the longer paragraph that I have read, we need to make editorial amendments. I promise this will be the last editorial. I note to the referees that in the plenary of the parliamentary platform it is not right and it is uncomfortable to make such amendments!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u141	That's right! It's not right and a little uncomfortable to make repairs. Everything should be refined!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u142	I understand that, Madam President, and therefore I pay attention to the referees who wrote the Report. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74c, para. 4 The text states when documents and contain data are to be read when the documents contain data. Accordingly, the next row shall remain only for the next row. This is the first editorial amendment. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74z, para. 3 there is no verb: the information of electronic or digital media, electronic copies of documents and electronic evidence. This text shall be read: The electronic copies of the seized documents, digital and electronic evidence seized through a special software shall be appropriately sealed. I'm providing you with both repairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u143	Thank you. Are there any other speeches and suggestions? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We will first vote on the editorial amendments that have just been read by Mr. Delyan Dobrev. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 28, in the version of the Commission and the editorial changes that we have just voted on. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u144	According to § 17 the proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, t. 6 words to identify the cases of non-dimensional, improper and/or inaccurate electric energy, as well as the creation, maintenance and access to a database with registration from the means of commercial measurement and shall be replaced by the order and means for the calculation of the amount of electrical energy in the establishment of non-dimensional, incorrect and/or inaccurate electric energy or for which there is measured indications in a non-visualized register of the means of commercial measurement, order and method of service of the means of commercial measurement, as well as the creation, maintenance and access to the data recorded by those means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u145	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the wording of § 17, which becomes § 29, in the version of the Commission, just read by Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u146	Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u147	Under § 18, there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u148	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on § 18 by the text of an importer which becomes § 30. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u150	Are there any speeches on the proposed texts? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposals of an importer for § 19, which becomes § 31, and by an importer § 20, which becomes § 32. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u151	According to § 21 there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u152	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 21 to be rejected. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u153	Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u154	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 33. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u156	Are there any speeches on this Commission proposal? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for the support of § 22, which becomes § 34. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u157	According to § 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Atanas Kostadinov. In § 23, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. A sentence 5 second after the word "supplier" shall be a point and the text shall be deleted by the end of the sentence. (b) in para. 6 the words "six" shall be replaced by "six" and "six" shall be replaced by "six" and "six" shall be replaced by "six" and "six" shall be replaced by "six" and "six" shall be replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "and final customers' shall be replaced by the co-ordinators of balancing groups, final customers and transmission and distribution grid operators to compensate for the technological costs of transmission, respectively by distribution. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The public supplier may purchase electricity at freely agreed prices in the event of a shortage of quantities of electricity, in accordance with which the public supplier makes transactions with the final suppliers. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words "over 5 megawatts', including from producers of electricity from renewable sources with a total installed capacity of more than 5 megawatts, are replaced by "4 megawatts' and more than 4 megawatts, by operators of transmission and distribution networks to compensate for the technological costs of transmission, respectively by distribution and after the words "al'. The following shall be added to the list: 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become para. 6 and 7 and are amended as follows: suppliers under art. 162a and producers with a total installed capacity of 4 megawatts and more than 4 megawatts under the Renewable Energy Act may sell all or part of the electricity produced by them through a coordinator of a balancing group. In this case, the coordinator shall register with the independent transmission operator producers as a sub-group in the balancing group and shall necessarily sell their purchased electricity through separate registration on an organised stock market. (7) The coordinator under para. 6 prepare a monthly reference for the electricity sold on an organised stock market by producers, which provides the Commission and the Fund up to the 10th of the month following the month to which it relates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u158	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am the author of a proposal that the Commission does not support. I'd like to present you with the motives, because I think there's a reason. In principle, the proposed mechanism of the IDE of the Energy Act for the sale of the produced energy from renewable sources and highly efficient cogeneration only on an organised stock market in my opinion is unclear and, in a sense, I can prove it, contrary to fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union, namely: freedom of movement of goods. What are my two arguments: ambiguity is mostly in relation to the use of the term................................................................................................. The first question is this: does this address the sale of only the Bulgarian independent energy exchange or enable producers to sell to others within the European Union organised such exchanges, stock markets in which there are, of course, platforms for trading in electricity? If the latter is true, namely that there may be access to other European exchanges, it means that the purpose of the bill that we are proclaiming is not largely implemented. The idea of this bill is, however, to provide sufficient amount of energy according to production and demand to balance prices, and a hypothesis where sales on other European exchanges are valid, I can develop the following hypothesis that it will expire to markets, i.e. stock markets organised at a higher price, cheap Bulgarian electricity. That is, instead of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange, cheaper energy will be offered on stock platforms outside Bulgaria and that, if the offer of importers is true, no one can stop it. Of course, here we can expand this hypothesis if there is a lower price, what happens to large state-owned power producers and whether they also do not enter into the context of the so-called liquidage, i.e. the leakage of the lower price to higher prices such as markets? My second argument relates to the nature of the technological production of these producers. The only possibility that is for producers of energy from sun, wind and water, as if they remain the two not to the end and sufficiently developed platforms currently developed for the "During the day" platform and the "Day forward" platform, where conventional producers have a dominant market presence. In my opinion, the proposed changes to the c. 1 give producers the opportunity to choose their trading partner through bilateral contracts the essence of my proposal. In other words, I would like to say the following: the free market, honourable Members, is a greater value than the obligation to sell only on the market. Of course, access to the independent energy exchange is an approach to liberalising this trade, to lightening. All of us here see how the vote is going, we are convinced of that and I am glad that it is a fact. The excessive fixation, in my opinion, and the obligation to sell only and only to the Bulgarian independent energy exchange or to other only energy exchanges, in my opinion, becomes a restriction. Free trade is something much more valuable, and I regret that we say it on the left is something much more common than the introduction of liberalization rules. Those are the arguments for my proposal. If you understand them, I'll thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u161	Mr. Kostadinov, you have nothing to be sorry for claiming that the free market is a good thing. We're all convinced of that. I'm glad your colleagues on the left are convinced of the free market and you're trying to protect it. In fact, this text of yours will change a provision of December, with which we obliged producers to sell on an organised stock market with the idea that we should finally have transparency in the sale of electricity in Bulgaria, because it was previously unclear by what rules, how, to whom and so on sold this electricity and it was concentrated in a small number of producers. Your question whether or not it prohibits, in fact, this bill does not provide for any change in the way of trade. It has been changed since December last year and the results, by the way, are there because we already have over 100 different manufacturers, traders and consumers registered on the energy market, and there are dozens of them every day, not to mention hundreds of transactions. That is, we not only have transparency, we also have liquidity that determines the real market price. With regard to whether it can be traded on other exchanges, yes, it can also be traded on other exchanges, but this is an existing situation of safe over 20 years. The first deals of NEK directly abroad were in the 1990s and although the price of neighbouring markets in the past was even higher than the price in Bulgaria, this energy leakage has never happened, which you are worried about. Moreover, you have advocated the thesis that we are a single European electricity market, that is, it should not be in this single, open energy market in the European Union, the price in Romania or the price in Hungary to differ from who knows how much of the price in Bulgaria and that, by the way, is observed. Prices followed the same trend with small deviations, but followed the same trend. Furthermore, the main argument that transactions should be concluded transparently through an organised stock market and that they should be concluded at market prices is that a number of revenues and costs in energy have to be reperformed exactly that price. That is, if trade is not transparent and transactions are concluded at some non-market price levels, this will dramatically change both revenue and energy costs to the detriment of society. The only case or the only case in which I agree with your proposal and which I suggest we discuss in the next amendments to the Energy Act, I know that Minister Petkova is also here, May there will be a draft Law by the Ministry of Energy there. We can think about whether or not to authorise new building capacities, for those not currently built, which will be built in the future, whether or not to allow them to enter into direct long-term contracts with another private in the sector. Because, on the one hand, we're going to have a private producer, and on the other hand, we're going to have a private consumer, which shouldn't have bothered us particularly. Logic in such a proposal can be considered together with you "even to be together importers. Here in a number of texts we are importers: Mr. Ermenkov first and I after him, so there is no jealousy on our part in this regard. The logic is that if we authorise this type of contract, then an investor who wants to invest, for example, in renewable sources, will enter into a long-term contract for 10, 15, 20 years as much as they want, at whatever prices they agree with the consumer of this energy, with someone in the industry and having this contract, will be able to provide funding for the construction of the installation. The problem now is that these investors do not have the certainty that stock prices are constantly changing. When they go to the bank and say: we want credit to build this plant, the bank says: yes, but here there is uncertainty about how the price of electricity will change. While if we allow these non-existent, I repeat, investments in RES, in gas, in whatever, to conclude in the private sector bilateral contracts with each other, this contract could be the basis for a loan to finance the investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u162	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, honourable colleagues! I apologize if it's not the classic line, but your logic, explanation and answer, I can say that I largely satisfy myself. The only thing I want to say is that we will still retain the right to adhere to the data that immediately after the introduction of these changes are registered by the stock market, the price movement and whether producers, businesses and consumers, again by business, as well as the population, they achieve this effect... Otherwise, we would gladly participate in anything that makes this law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Does he have a back? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We will proceed to the vote on the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 28 against 50, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the wording of § 23, which becomes § 35, on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u165	Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Supporters" "Suppliers" is added. 2. A new para is being created. 2: After a change of supplier, if the final customer has failed to fulfil the obligations under a contract for the sale of electricity to its previous supplier, the latter shall be entitled to suspend its supply of electricity in order laid down in the rules of art. Reg. 91, para. 2..................................................... 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become para. Three and four. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One and three. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u166	Are there any statements to the reported text? I won't. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for a new § 36. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u168	Are there any statements to the reported texts? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 24, which becomes § 37, § 25, which becomes § 38, § 26, which becomes § 39, § 27, which becomes § 40, and § 28, which becomes § 41 in the version of the Commission Report. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u169	Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase. The Commission does not support the proposal: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Paragraph 29 is amended as follows: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 of the Bill the following amendments and additions are proposed: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205, para. 1 a new sentence is added: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205, para. 2 a new sentence is added: 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. II. New § 29a.. 29i shall be created with the following text: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 206 the following amendments and 1. In para. 1 a new sentence is added: "In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall amount to 3 000 000 BGN." 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. § 29b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 2 after the words the capital charge is added to the amount of 3 000 000 BGN § 29c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207a, para. 2 after the words the capital charge is added to the amount of 3 000 000 BGN § 29 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207b, para. 2 after the words the amount of EUR 600 000 shall be added to the amount of BGN 600 000. § 29e C. 208, para. 2 after the words the capital charge is added to the amount of BGN 150 000. § 29f. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2 after the words the capital charge is added to the amount of 300 000 BGN § 29g. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210, para. 2 after the words the capital charge is added to the amount of 300 000 BGN § 29h. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a new sentence is added: In case of repeated infringement, the fine is 3 000 BGN. 2. In para. 2 a new sentence is added: 3. In para. 3 a new sentence is added: The penalty is BGN 15 000 and the penalty is BGN 30 000. § 29i. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216 a new sentence is added: In case of a repeated infringement, the penalty is 3 000 000 BGN. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 29, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts (prom., SG No. 39 from 1974) proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs of § 42 to § 49: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 43. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 206 words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 44. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207 words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 45. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207a words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 46. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207b the words "size determined' shall be deleted. § 47. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 208 the words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 48. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 209 the words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 49. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210 words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u170	Are there any speeches? Quiet and attention, please! We are about to vote on the reported texts. First of all, we will vote on the Commission's unsupported proposal by MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase. They voted 110 MPs: for 67, against 4, abstention 39. Mr. Dobrev, please come in with a re-vote request.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u171	It's a revoting request. My fellow Members, I am paying attention to you because there has been a confusion in this House. We are voting on a text which is not supported by the Commission. Thank you. [[Shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u172	Please be quiet, there will probably be another confusion if we don't hear from you! I would like to re-vote the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase, not supported by the Commission, a proposal for a text of § 29. They voted 121 MPs: 12, against 33, abstentioned 76. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for § 29. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u173	According to § 30, there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan 30. Article 217 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u174	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan A base. They voted 121 MPs: 15 against 34, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the support § 30, which becomes § 50. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Just for a second, Mr. Dobrev, to announce that for the previous § 29, which becomes § 42, we have voted together paragraphs 42 to 49. Proceed, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Under § 31, there is a proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219, para. 2 after the word "global" is added to the amount of BGN 24 000 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 31, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 of 24 April 1974 on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts (prom., SG No. 39 from 1974) proposes to be formed in separate paragraphs from § 51 to § 55: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 52. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222 words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 53. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224a words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. § 54. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224b the words "size determined' shall be deleted. § 55. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224 in the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u176	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan A base. They voted 110 MPs: 16 against 44, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31 to form separate paragraphs 51 to 55 supported by the Commission in principle. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u177	Proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan Abase: A new Paragraph 31a is being created with the following text: § 31a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222, para. 3 words by para. The words "in the amount of BGN 15 000" shall be added after the word "sanction." by para. 1 and 150,000 leva. by para. 2. § 31b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224a, para. 2 is amended as follows: In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be BGN 120 000. § 31c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224c, para. 2 is amended as follows: In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be BGN 120 000. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u178	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay and Bürhan A base. They voted 117 MPs: 20, against 37, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u180	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission § 32, which shall become § 56, and § 33 respectively, which shall become § 57. They voted 116 MPs: 115 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u181	According to § 34 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali and Bürhan Abase. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1a the words "electric power traders, users or owners of the networks organised" shall be replaced by "volunteering participants." 2. A t is created. 1b: 1b. It is a production with a constant power output of electricity and its consumption over a certain period of time. 3. A new t. is created. 42: ..42. The estimated market price per producer group, depending on the primary energy source, is the weighted average annual price determined by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on a methodology for electricity produced from solar energy, wind energy, hydropower plants, with installed capacity of up to 10 MW, biomass, other renewables and electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of natural gas and coal. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 61 words which are not intended to work in a given period of time and shall be replaced by production and/or consumption capacities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u182	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer with the corresponding version of the Commission Report, in which § 34 becomes § 58. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u183	Proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddy. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 59: ............... 59................................................................... Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of Paragraph 4 shall be inserted. 4a: If the buy-in transaction is not executed or there is no reasonable refusal under para. 4, the energy enterprise within three months after an invitation by the owners under para. 1 is obliged to pay rent according to a methodology determined by the Commission depending on the type and power of the facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u184	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 59. They voted 115 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u185	"Transitional and final provisions' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u186	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the name of the division and § 35, which becomes § 60, supported by the Commission, and § 36, which becomes § 61, once again supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u187	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 29 the words "April 30" shall be replaced by "May 15th."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u188	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the newly born § 62. 110 MPs voted: 100, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u189	According to § 37 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 t. At the end of the year, the energy storage unit is added to the installation of a total capacity of less than 4 MW. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1, t. 6 the word "sources" is deleted and after the word "sources" is added the word "sources" of sites with a total installed capacity of less than 4 MW. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "The electricity from renewable sources shall be purchased from the public supplier, respectively from the final suppliers' shall be replaced by the public supplier and the final suppliers shall buy the electricity from renewable sources produced from sites with a total installed capacity of less than 4 MW. (b) the creation of para. 14: In the case of reconstruction and modernisation of an energy site which requires commissioning within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area, the conditions for buying-in under the contracts under para. 2 and the determined net specific production of electricity are retained. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words "supplier' for "supplier' is added "supplier'; (b) in para. 4 a sentence 2 is created: the guarantee of origin is used when transferred to a final customer or where the share of renewable energy in the total energy composition of the supplier is proven; (c) in para. The 6th sentence is first amended as follows: The guarantees of origin are used only to demonstrate to a final customer that a certain share of energy in the total energy composition of the supplier or amount of electricity is produced from renewable sources. (d) a new para shall be created. 7. The guarantee of origin may be transferred independently of the electricity for which it was issued but only once to a final customer. (e) The so far para. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it after the words. 31, para. The following shall be added: 1 " and the words under the order of the regulation under art. 35, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. Art. 2, Art. 61, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 63, para. 2 the words defined by the maximum amount shall be deleted. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 34, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. Art. 3, Art. 66, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u190	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 37, which shall become § 63, on the Commission's report. They voted 121 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's congratulate our guests today [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u191	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a new § 64. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Since the entry into force of this Act for producers of electricity from renewable sources through energy sites under § 18, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy (prom., SG No. ...), put into operation until 7 November 2011, the prices adopted by a Commission decision on energy and water regulation of 7 November 2011 setting preferential prices under art. 31, para. 8 of the Renewable Energy Act, and for sites put into operation after 7 November 2011, prices operating at the date of their entry into service within the meaning of the Area Device Act shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u192	Statements? Minister Petkova has a comment on this paragraph. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to bring some clarity to the proposed text in the Law. I would only like to recall that this provision concerns about 300 producers of electricity through renewable energy sources who have received free funding under the operational programmes for rural development by the State Fund. This free financing for the construction of these capacities, when setting their preferential price, this grant has virtually not been taken into account and has received a price which is actually overfinancing or is over-supporting in terms of the investment they have made. In this respect, a change in the Energy Act was made in 2015, which restored in practice the unfair price range in relation to this factual situation. This provision in the Law was subsequently appealed before the Constitutional Court, it ruled and confirmed the correctness of the decision that the parliament then adopted. In addition, State aid notified to renewable energy producers was notified within this framework in 2016. Any change with regard to these provisions will therefore also lead to problems with the approval of State aid to producers of energy from renewable energy sources. Last but not least, in order to initiate this change in the Law, in 2015 there was one information from the Ministry of Agriculture which made it clear that an audit of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that these considerations be taken into account when voting on this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u194	Thank you, dear Minister! [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u195	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I absolutely cannot agree with Minister Petkova's opinion for several reasons. The Constitutional Court came up with a decision that we have the right to change price schemes, which means that we have the right to change them now. The Constitutional Court has not said that once we have replaced them, we can no longer change them. The second thing I would like to say is that when the price for the purchase of energy is fixed, then they have fully respected the Bulgarian legislation, declared their benefits correctly received before the ERP, and that the KEWRC has set that price for them is not their fault. Let's even say that for three years they have received a higher price, and according to the calculations that we have received from the KEWRC, including, they have already paid off overpaid funds and are currently in a state of absolute insolvency. Now I'm going to read you a few facts so there's no problem. We are talking about 273 small renewables, producers of such energy, with a total installed capacity of.. note the huge amount of 23 megawattpics, which represents 0,0008% of the total installed power of the energy sites in the country. Currently 274 companies with the fact that we lowered their price in 2015 are in absolute insolvency. 50% of the companies are in debt, 8 of them are already bankrupt and there is a request for another 10, and 5 is requested a return of the support from the State Fund. At the moment, they cannot pay back the obligations we have imposed on them with the additional restrictions on net specific production, the 5 per cent they have to pay at the Energy Security Fund and so on. I just want to explain to you that what we are talking about right now, and what will be as an influence again on KEWRC's letter on common obligations to society, amounts to 5.6 million. lv. Annually. On one side of the scale, there are 5.6 million. BGN, and on the other side stands the fate of 274 companies with about 1000 people built in those areas, which are remote and have at least jobs, with at least the least income. I agree that in 2015 we played our part of the Sanctuary and took over this money that was overrun, but let us not become executioners of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2018. Please! Let us also unite this time to show that the parliament is working not only for large companies, for large capital and for large producers, who, by the way, have received subsidies from the state in the form of programmes and projects over 80 million. BGN, and are exempt from paying public debt due to green energy by 90 million. BGN, which is 20 such companies, and to destroy 300. I understand that it is difficult to reverse the one-time decision, but please: let us be sympathetic to these people! This is not about lobbying, this is not about raising the price, and the price of energy for the end-user will rise by 1 mild again according to the calculation of the KEWRC. You can figure out what a thousandth of the current price means, such as raising the price. Against this we stake the fate of people, we stake the fate of companies, we stake the fate of Bulgaria as a state. There is also a directive which obliges us not to take measures that could lead to the destruction of such undertakings. It may finally turn out that we will be obliged to repay this funding because we have taken restrictive measures that do not guarantee the viability of those enterprises that are created with money from this programme. Once again I ask you, let us fix this injustice, let us be human, let us be those who take care of small and medium business! This is even about microbusiness. And don't let us be called executioners and business killers from tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u197	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I might have kind of agreed with yours if they were, however, turned to the whole business of Bulgaria. I can give you an example of any other business. I think there is no other business that is fixed, guaranteed by the state, except this one. I don't know why there have to be misfits of fate for someone to fight for. For example, for miners, why don't we guarantee them a buying-in price for coal so they can exist? I can tell you the most concrete example with many pharmacies that went bankrupt, because when they signed a contract with the Health Insurance Fund and invested in creating these sites, they had the opportunity to overestimate, for example, within 5. Right now, for an expensive drug worth $30,000. BGN, which the pharmacy has to buy, sell it in a month, after two more months to pay it, the Health Insurance Fund pays two levs. With this only the value of the current, the pen is not covered. Not to mention the value of a pharmacist's work. Who's gonna think about these people? In principle, if we are going to make communism, to whomever everything is guaranteed, we may support you, because it will still be equal. But when we create an environment for certain people to have a guaranteed business and others to be on the free market... Who will fix the price of milk for dairy farmers? The grain producers? If we are going to think in complexity, we may think about supporting you, but only certain structures to make pets, we will not support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u199	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Mareshki, I understood you this way: because the ruling majority has gone after and destroyed the pharmacies, let's destroy the little RESs. That's how I understood your statement. That's what I heard from you. That's what I heard because the majority responsible creates such conditions for working in the mines, the miners will go out on the street, go out on the street, let's destroy small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, including in the RES sector. If this is the policy of your pragmatic party: to take from some money and to stay for others, namely in brackets for us no longer, you will probably not support me. I am convinced that you will not support me even by the philosophy of your position. But I'm not addressing you. I turn to those who ride in slightly cheaper cars, those who know what it's about, and those who make a living with both hands and with calluses on their hands, rather than managing pharmacies, importing medicines or selling them in any other form. Please let us not confuse business with our personal relationship. We're talking about things called non-creating conditions and non-creating environments. We are talking about things that are called restoring those conditions that were at the beginning when these enterprises were concluding their contracts. They didn't invent the prices, they were assigned to them. And from then on that the state changes the rules for the game, we have this as a result at the moment when foreign investments in Bulgaria drop dramatically precisely because of such decisions, precisely because there is no permanent investment environment in Bulgaria, precisely because at any given moment a law can be changed to the detriment of the investor and in favour of a fisca as a result to talk that we have the smallest debt in Europe. And the smallest foreign investment for this thing because of the environment. Therefore, I call on you: let us show that we have come to our senses and that we can restore justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u201	Madam President, honourable Members! I was thinking, essentially, just to give the clear example of why it should not be supported, but we have entered demagogy and I have to answer. Look, ladies and gentlemen, those who took commissions to set high prices for someone and guarantee them business. You know that the whole of Bulgaria currently suffers from similar contracts that have been concluded for these thermal plants, the so-called U.S. thermal plants. Isn't that right? If someone in the years has taken money to make some fixed prices and now feels committed and obliged to protect this interest, we have not taken money, we will not take money, and therefore we will not defend corrupt interests. Thank you. [[Private applause by.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u202	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u203	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Mareshki, yes, there must be people who have taken commissions in setting prices, but they are not in parliament. They are where these prices are set. For your information and expansion of knowledge in energy, this is called the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Parliament doesn't set prices! We define those rules on which a system works and bring it into line with the current moment. I agree with you, they must answer and call you, and I really call you "If you also know the names of these people, if not here in the Chamber, at your next meeting with the prosecutor to tell him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u205	I'm not answering.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u206	No douche. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u207	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will try to reduce the tension and try to understand what we will do and who will vote on this text. Why do I want to try to explain it to you? Those were some deals that were made in violation of the law. Fifty per cent of the subsidy they had taken on this subsidy was charged the preferential price. Because of this thing, these manufacturers were punished. £600, I think. The price went down to 100 leva. It has passed, I think, somewhere around 5 years and at the moment we have to make a political decision, colleagues: is it the National Assembly, according to these 270 companies, to return at least to the 50% they have invested, from now on to pay them this price because they have suffered their punishment? But it must be clear to every single MP that by voting on this thing, we will raise the price of electricity. She's gonna be two. I do not want the political forces to leave here and then say: those who voted for them have raised the price of electricity, and those who do not vote must bear the responsibility. Is it necessary for these 270 companies to be bankrupt and 3,000 people to stay on the street? This is the task of the people's representative to make such a decision, which must be balanced. Why? Because if we had to judge and say today did we increase the price of electricity trading? Yeah. Only with the bank guarantees we want during trade to guarantee us the funds that traders will provide in the Fund is also an increase in the price. Then someone would have gotten up and said why. The issue is political and any political formation will bear its responsibility. It is not about commissions, nor about those errors that were made during the conclusion of the contracts of both US power plants and the sale of Lukoil and the sale of Kremikovtsi. That's what this is about, guys. If it has become clear to you, you must decide the political formation with your presidents, say: yes, we support or not, we do not support. And we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the new § 64 created, which the Commission proposes and supports. Vote 138 MPs: 57 against 55, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u209	Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Energy Efficiency (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 is finally added on the basis of a Strategy for Sustainable Energy Development of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 3, para. 2 of the Energy Act. 2. Article 4 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 the words "the national energy efficiency strategy" shall be replaced by "the sustainable energy development strategy." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 t. 1 is canceled. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 t. 1 is 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 t. 1 is 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 t. 1 is 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 2 9. In Chapter 2, in the name of Section III, the words "National Strategy" are deleted. 10. Article 24 shall be repealed. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2 the words "the national energy efficiency strategy" shall be replaced by "the sustainable energy development strategy." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1 the words the National Energy Efficiency Strategy is replaced by the Strategy for Sustainable Energy Development
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u210	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the new § 65 created, which the Commission supports. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u211	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Act for the National Revenue Agency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 7 is canceled. 2. In para. 8 words as well as non-submitting in the term of a declaration under para.7 for no good reasons shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u212	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the creation of § 66, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u213	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u214	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 38, which shall become § 67, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u215	According to § 39 there is a proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) By 31 October 2018, the producers of electricity from renewable sources with a total installed capacity of 4 MW and more than 4 MW of energy sites shall conclude with the Energy Security Fund a premium compensation contract for the quantities of electricity produced by them up to the amount of their determined net specific production of electricity on the basis of which their preferential price is determined. The premium compensation contracts shall enter into force no later than 1 January 2019. (2) The premium shall be determined annually by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by 30 June as a difference between the preferential price fixed until the entry into force of this law, respectively the updated preferential price of the site and the estimated market price for electricity produced from renewable sources, depending on the primary energy source. (3) The Fund shall inform the public provider in due time of the date from which the premium contract concluded with the producer concerned enters into force. (4) The premium shall be granted until the expiry of the term under the relevant long-term purchase contract or contract under Paragraph 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Renewable Energy Act concluded until the entry into force of this Act. (5) In the case of reconstruction and modernisation of an energy facility which require the entry into service within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Area, the provision of a premium shall be maintained by applying para. Two and three. (6) For the electricity produced producers under para. 1 declare the issuing of guarantees of origin and transfer them to the "Secretary System Security" Fund. (7) Fund "Secure of the power system" after payment of a premium transfer to the persons under art. 36g, para. 1, t. 1 guarantees of origin for the month concerned in proportion to the amount of funds due by those persons for the same month from the price and/or component from the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17................................................ (8) From the date of entry into force of the contract under para. 1 the purchase contracts of the respective producer under para. 1 concluded until the entry into force of this law is considered terminated and the public supplier, respectively, the final suppliers, do not buy at a preferential price the electricity produced by this producer. (9) From 1 July 2018 until the entry into force of the contract under para. 1 The public supplier buys electricity at preferential prices from the producers under para. 1 connected to the power grid. (10) From 1 July 2018 until the entry into force of the contract under para. 1 the final supplier buys electricity at preferential prices from producers under para. 1 connected to the grid. The public supplier shall inform the final supplier in due time of the date on which the premium compensation contract concluded with the producer concerned enters into force, as notified by the (11) The final suppliers shall sell to the public supplier the quantities of electricity under para. Ten at the price they bought her out. (12) The public supplier shall sell on a stock market the electricity purchased by him under para. 9 and 11. (13) For the quantity of electricity purchased by each producer, the public supplier shall receive compensation from the Power System Security Fund at the value of the premium for that producer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u216	So far, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 39, which shall become § 68, with the corresponding version of the Commission Report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Mr. Dobrev, a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u217	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u218	Mr. Dobrev, it's an extension procedure to finish because we have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u219	I think we won't have to, Madam President, but I suggest an extension of time. The consensus texts will take us a few minutes if we extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u220	Until the vote on the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u221	It won't be like yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u222	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend the time until the bill is adopted. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. And one procedure that I'm going to do. I suggest tomorrow's parliamentary control begins at 9:00. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made tomorrow for parliamentary control to begin at 9:00. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u223	Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Minister of Energy shall notify by 30 June 2018 the State aid schemes in the field of energy for the production of electricity from renewable sources and from high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and electricity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 70. Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. Within 18 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Energy shall develop and submit for approval by the Council of Ministers a Strategy for Sustainable Energy Development of the Republic of Bulgaria. Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 72: ................. The term referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. H6c, al. 2 shall apply to the members of the Management Board of the Fund. Proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 73: .............................................................................. (1) The fixed-term service of civil servants from the administration of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory shall be converted into fixed-term and fixed-term employment, respectively, and employment contracts shall be concluded with the employees. When the time period for testing under Art. 1 has expired up to the time of conversion of the relationship. 12 of the Civil Service Act is less than 6 months, it shall be included in the testing period under art. 70 of the Labour Code and when the expired period exceeds 6 months, the period for testing under art. 70 of the Labor Code has expired. (2) In the case of transformation under para. 1 the individual basic monthly salary under the Code of Employment for civil servants and employees of employment by the administration of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory shall be determined so that the same, increased by the additional wage for acquired work experience and professional experience and reduced by the tax due and compulsory social contributions at the expense of the insured person, is not lower than the individual basic monthly salary received so far, reduced by the compulsory social contributions due at the expense of the insured person, if they were due, and the tax due. (3) Unused leave of service under para. 1 shall be retained and shall not be compensated by monetary benefits. Under § 41, there is a proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 69. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraphs 11, 14,15,16, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25, 31, 32, 34, 35, 38, 39, 40, 41, and § 63, relating to t. 1 s 4 which shall enter into force from 1 July 2018; 2. paragraphs 62 and 66, which shall enter into force from 30 April 2018; 3 paragraphs 5, 6, 9, 10 and 73, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-26.u224	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote a new § 69, supported by the Commission, § 40, which shall become § 70 by importer, which the Commission shall support, new paragraphs 71, 72 and 73 and the version of § 41, which shall become § 74, in the Report of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted, and with this, the Bill. Since there has been a renumbering of the individual paragraphs, the Financial Texts Directorate will ensure that this is refined. Colleagues, tomorrow's parliamentary control at 9:00: 1. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva; and Anna Alexandrova, Altimir Adamov and Kiril Kalfin. 2. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev. 3. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MPs Emilia Staneva Milkova and Ruslan Toshev. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer five questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev; Georgi Turnovaliski, Dimitar Georgiev and Teodora Halacheva; Stanislava Stoyanova, Daniela Maleshkova, Venka Stoyanova, Asya Peeva and Galya Zaharieva; Tanya Petrova, Vasil Tsvetkov, Milena Damyanova, Radostin Tanev and Asya Peeva; and Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova. 5. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer seven questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev. Three questions; Georgi Mihailov; Georgi Mihailov and Milko Nedyalkov; Nikolay Tsonkov, Hristo Prodanov and Rumen Georgiev. 6. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Valentin Lambev; Alexander Nenkov, Daniela Maleshkova, Desislava Todorova and Martin Tinchev; Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vassileva and Asya Peeva; Petya Avramova, Desislava Todorova, Martin Tinchev, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Emil Tonchev, Stefan Apostolov and Alexander Matsurev. 7. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Dilyan Dimitrov, Plamen Nunev, Diana Savateva and Plamen Tachev; and Georgi Mihailov and one question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions with written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tishev; and to a question written by the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question by the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to a question written by the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev two questions; and Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev of a question by the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and Economy Minister Emil Karanikov will not participate. Due to a prior international commitment related to a working visit to Sofia of a delegation from the Republic of Macedonia, led by the Minister of Local Self-government Suhail Fazliu, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment, which will be attended by the US Ambassador to Bulgaria, representatives of the New York Stock Exchange and other senior officials, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov are unable to participate in the parliamentary control meeting because of their commitment to the scheduled meetings included in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. I'm adjourned today's session. Tomorrow, parliamentary control at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
