ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u1	Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I will read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for an extraordinary plenary session on 23 January 2018, Tuesday, at 1300 p.m., item only: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO BENEFICIATE THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER OF THE PRESENTAL BORISOV CLOSED IN THE POLICY FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE CORRUPTION. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 January 2018. The voting of the draft decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the debates, according to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 80 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 17 January 2018, Wednesday, 11.21 pm, No 854-02-5/17.01.2018. On the same day the materials were distributed one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I would like the floor to make a procedural proposal for the direct broadcast of the debates on today's point of our extraordinary sitting. We have always insisted on publicity and transparency even when unwarrantedly attacking us... [[Noise and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u3	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u4	... And that is why we are making this proposal to be able by broadcasting on the Bulgarian national television channel 2 and the Bulgarian national radio our arguments, debates to be heard by all our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the proposal just made by the MP Mr. Kirilov. Vote 216 MPs: 216, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Second procedure Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure under art. 49, para. 2 for admission in the hall of the following Deputy Ministers: Mr. Todor Stoyanov Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Please, a voting regime for the admission of the newly read Deputy Ministers. Vote 206 MPs: 184 against 9, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Mr. Stoinev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, Madam President! I'm also doing a procedure to invite the Prime Minister. After all, it is his government, and this vote of no confidence is in his cabinet. I am pleased that our ministers have respected us here, but I believe that without the Prime Minister we cannot begin the debates because this is a vote of mistrust, I repeat, to his cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We'll notify the Prime Minister, the colleagues will contact him. We move on to time distribution in connection with the application of art. 58, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The parliamentary group of GERB has a number of 95 MPs and a time of 30 minutes under art. 58, para. 1; "BSP for Bulgaria" "80 MPs and 26 minutes; "United Patriarchs" "NFSB", "Ataka" and "VMRO" "27 MPs with 14 minutes of time; Movement of Rights and Freedoms " 25 MPs, 13 minutes of speech; Parliamentary group of "Volja" "12 MPs," 10 minutes of speaking time; non-members of parliamentary groups "one, five minutes of speech." That's what we're going to move on to reading the motives. Let me just say that during the debate period that I introduced you to a moment ago, the time for presenting the reasons of the vote of mistrust on behalf of the importers and the speaking time of the cabinet ministers will not come. Who will present us with the motives on behalf of the importers? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The vote of distrust for the government, which was tabled by the parliamentary group of BSP, is not a demonstration of self-will opposition. This is not sabotage, nor any kind of hostile act or search for cheap advertising, as some have tried to say. This vote, alas, is a harsh necessity. It is dictated mostly by the own actions and by the blatant inaction of the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs on a sensitive topic for our society. The vote draws its motives in unshakable logic, according to which, when a government, whatever it is, cannot deal with the main problem in our country, it simply loses its right to rule. And the fact that corruption rules in Bulgaria hardly needs proof. Corruption tumor eats away at the organs of our country, and it's visible with the naked eye, and it's visible from afar. It is seen by the World Bank's charts, the World Economic Forum, the European Commission's charts, the Transparency International, and our fellow citizens see it. According to the 2017 Eurobarometer, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 83% of Bulgarians believe that corruption is widespread in the country, while an express survey from last year shows that the convergence of power and corruption is the main problem for our society, and that each, every political action and event lately makes the Bulgarians feel this problem. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 88,5% of respondents believe that tenders are not assessed objectively and 80,9% of them are certain that the conditions in the tender documentation are tendential and established for the benefit of a specific person. Simply put, this means that the vast majority of that 10 billion. BGN, which the current government has spent through public procurement, are distributed according to subjective criteria and with a pre-set winner. Diagnosis is very clear, the diagnosis is "Corruption." But what is the treatment we are offered? For the nine months during which he is in power, the government has used more energy to wonder what corruption is than to oppose it, debating whether it is a crime, or if it is simply a phenomenon, is it a feeling in the Bulgarians, or is it a brand that is undeservedly glued to us from the outside, we have adopted a confused Law whose anticorruption is exhausted in its name. On the other hand, the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council, another special, independent specialized body in nine months, found the time to gather only once. During that time, the faucet from which public funds were leaking remained open. That's how it is in health care, for example. There, according to the Minister of Finance, the system is plentiful of interest and a lot is being stolen from it. Seven hundred million. lv. Annually. It is so in the trade of excise goods whose control is carried out by an information system protected by the same, and this simple password. But what system are we talking about? [[a line from MP Tasco Ermenkov]] When there are no secrets.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u11	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u12	There are no secrets either about where and when VAT is hidden or how... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u13	Mr. Ermenkov, we're listening to motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u14	... And who makes public procurement. There's no secret, there's no punishment. Every road construction businessman knows that without taking into account, he will not win a public contract. He pays the man, he wins, and then he kills from the sub-contractor who saves the bribes from the wages of the workers and the material. If you want, I can wait, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u15	Please take your seats, dear ministers. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u16	Thank you. What about concessions? In a month or two, the legal regime of concessionation on the beaches has changed twice radically. On this occasion, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy exclaimed, I quote: Will this handout continue, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, depend not only on the Law, depending on the vote the day after tomorrow and your party will also participate in it? We can continue with quotes, and we need to move on, because these quotes are essentially confessions. During the short period between my dismissal, the restoration of his post and his final resignation, the former CEO of the National Palace of Culture found the power to write: I absolutely refuse to sign new public contracts related to the preparation of the NDK for the Presidency under pressure and under conditions that do not comply with the rules and the law. Words don't belong to the opposition. The charge was specifically directed at a cabinet member. An answer to what this pressure is and for whose benefit it has been implemented there is no answer. What we do know, however, is that 45 million have been spent. lv. for this repair at initially foreseen 17. Another 180 million went to our unfortunate fence. For it, the BBC announced: The corruption in this country undermines the security of the European Union. Crossing the border is not just easy, it is often useful. These 180 million aroused many interests because they directly affect national security, the security of Bulgarian citizens. But 180 million is just crumbs, if we compare them to the billionth program for the so-called free sanitization. And it all connects in Haskovo. Haskovo Gate, ladies and gentlemen, is not just nepotism, it is a comprehensive model for acquiring public resources, where participants are close first, with each other, and then common to the ruling party. The party appoints a man who, in turn, directs the country's resources. People see it, they know it, but many of them are silent. Why do you think? The answer can be found in the words of one of the witnesses on another grand affair of Sudzhuk Gate. This man tells a Bulgarian newspaper: They are doing everything possible for the consequences of Sudzhuk Gate to be minimal by attacking everyone who has signaled the Prosecutor's Office. They are putting the whole country against us to show that this should no longer be done. The truth doesn't matter. This is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! With Thursday's vote, each MP will prove his attitude towards the truth.. the truth that is known to all. Will there be 121 of those present who will have the courage to recognize her? That's what we're about to find out. However, one thing is certain: if the vote succeeds, every next government, whoever it is, will know what kind of archin will be measured and judged. This is not a guarantee of success, but gives us a chance at a chance, which unfortunately we do not have at the moment. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, we come back to the question that, according to the Constitution, we are a state of parliamentary rule, and when it comes to a vote of no confidence in the government, there is no way to justify the later coming or not at all the Prime Minister's coming to this event. It has already been mentioned that he should be here and you said: "I will invite him. Doesn't he know there's no distrust vote? Hasn't he learned it yet? I think he knows that, judging by his reaction. Now that he knows, and he's not here yet, I think we only have two approaches, according to our rules. As a state, once again I say with parliamentary rule, and you are the President of Parliament at the moment, you are the person who should actually ensure the presence of the Prime Minister here, if we want things to stand in their rightful places and not up with their feet. And since by the Rules of Procedure, which you well know, our parliamentary group is not entitled to ask for a break one hour after the beginning of the sitting to wait for the Prime Minister, although it would be good to do so, because for the third time I say 64, para. 1 which, among other things, foresees that in the case of noise and riots, but for other important reasons that require rest, you can ask for it. For the fourth time: we cannot discuss a vote of no confidence in the government without the Prime Minister. You are currently the President of Parliament, and you are the person who must provide it. If you can't provide it, ask for a break, give it a rest now until the Prime Minister arrives. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev! I'll inform the Prime Minister of your wish. I'm not taking a break because there are no special circumstances. There's no noise in the room. I'm opening the debate on a no-confidence vote. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u20	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, MPs! It's like the vote ended before it started. The deafening absence of the Prime Minister is a confession of guilt for corruption. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If he wasn't, he'd be here. I mostly address Bulgarian citizens: Dear Bulgarian citizens, we are making this vote of no confidence for you. Each of you is a free man to support BSP, GERB, Patriots, DPS, Volja. It's a free choice! But each of you has faced corruption in your life and also has a free choice whether to pay and keep quiet or to oppose it, not to be afraid, to stand up to it and to name it. This vote we are doing for you to give you courage, to give you strength, to free you from fear, to give you confidence that no government is greater than you. This vote is not only for BSP and BSP. It belongs to the mothers of the children in Sofia who have not paid and are not on that list of kindergartens with priority; it belongs to the workers who have not received their salaries, but their employers will get out of responsibility because they have paid the right person or are close to the authority; it belongs to the owners of small and family companies who will not receive a public order because they are not of the seven-eight God-selected, but will have to redeem themselves from power with at least four tons of sudjuk. This is the vote of the mothers from Svishtov, where the ward is closed and they have to travel 80 km to give birth in the private hospital in Tarnovo because there is no money, and by recognition of the minister they are not because the system is being stolen. This is the vote of those people from the block in Burgas This is also the vote of pensioners who live with 200 leva. a pension because 10 billion dollars are stolen annually in the country. lv. And there's no money to update the pensions. I can go on with many examples. Corruption is one of the main causes of poverty and inequalities. Today the government of Boyko Borisov will deny that it is corrupt and will lose not mathematically, and not by BSP, but by you, honourable Bulgarian citizens, because there is no one who does not know that corruption has conquered everything from the lowest levels of government in the country to the highest. Of course, corruption is not from yesterday, not from today. But this government of Boyko Borisov has turned it into a state policy, and talking against corruption is a threat to national security. Whoever calls, gets fed or branded, there's no middle ground. When authoritative European publications wrote that Bulgaria is today the most corrupt country, they did not dare to condemn them and say: "Don't give us brains. There's more corruption in Europe than here. Keep your mouth shut. When the coalition partners in the government started talking about corruption, they got together, they found out and they shut up. Mr. Simeonov, what happened to those words of yours, I quote: In tourism, corruption reaches the level of minister. The signals I have will be provided to the D.A. How many such signals have you provided against the Minister of GERB? What happened to your words that power is used by GERB as a board for political ladybugs, quote? Mr. Siderov, did you decide the last time you would give your vote today or did they tame him with the promise of money for the dam? However, in addition to this dam, which is run by the Ataka, there are more than 100 dams in Bulgaria in this state, and if you have bargained for a dam because it operates there, there must be at least 100 votes of MPs here today, who have equally cared about dams in their constituencies, which are given to a concession of businessmen to watch carps, and who will never go to jail for drowning Bulgarian citizens. That will be today's choice. Perhaps Mr. Mareshki will also support the government. We ask ourselves which half of me: with the one who spoke the words: I will rewrite the book to Anton Todorov for Boyko Borisov and I will take it to the Prosecutor's Office to investigate him, or with the other half, over which he weighs like a Damocles sword the immunity and several counts of crimes? That is today's choice: how will 240 people vote with their conscience as our constituents have authorized you, or because of their personal and party interests? This, dear Bulgarians, is the painting today. Stealing, buying obedience, silence, and if you don't want to be bought, beat with dirt, with manipulations, with checks, and sometimes literally. And they're perfecting themselves, and they're modernizing themselves because the world is modernizing itself. Remember how Boyko Borisov used to run Customs years ago? Well, it's a simple phone call: "Hello, Vanyo, pull the customs officers out of there because I promised not to check them out, and I'm doing what I'm saying about Misho Beer. It's primitive, isn't it? But today it's fashionable. You order an electronic system, you put a password on a lot of people, you log in whenever you want, you delete ten truckloads of cigarettes, you delete ten truckloads of fuel. One ten million excise duties disappear here, the other ten there, and the D.A. raises his shoulders and says, "We can't. The author is unknown, anonymous. That's how it's done today at modern times. But it's the 45 million that didn't reach the municipal hospitals to heal them, or the seventy-five that didn't go to the disabled children. That's why we asked the question of BASIS. And caught in the closet, the power went wrong yesterday, with Minister Goranov saying three things, each next excluding the previous one: first, there is no problem, BSP lie, the system works normally. They're making up fake news. Second, there's a problem, we've got him. We've set up a task force, and we've decided it. And thirdly, we haven't decided it yet, but we will decide it by April 2018. Which of the three is true? And, of course, the biggest manipulation: you stopped smuggling and increased the income from excise duty and VAT. No, my dear, the revenue has increased because you have increased the amount of excise duty. Here's how: cigarettes from 155 to 168 BGN.; the excise of the diesel for heating from 50 to 646 BGN; heavy fuel from 50 to 400 BGN; kerosene of 50 leva. £646. That's why the excise revenue has increased! But where did this money come from out of the pockets of every Bulgarian citizen who uses these services and not from the government's efforts to combat smuggling? In a week or two, an analysis of Customs will come out here, with me, where for the first time they will take into account that in 2017, they have not collected the excise duty as planned in the budget by 50 million less. Looks like this balloon of fighting contraband is starting to pop up, too. And against the backdrop of these facts, you want us to keep quiet?! Let's not embarrass ourselves in front of foreigners. It's European Presidency! As you can see, we keep our word and everything that applies to the future of Europe and the worthy place of Bulgaria in it, we work together and we have received your recognition for it. Thank you. But when you reproach us that we are anti-Europeans with the vote of no confidence and you keep Europe's values, I have three questions for you: in which European document does it say or in which European country there are decisions that one of the Union's values can be temporarily frozen the right to free speech, of a different opinion, of pluralism, of a democratic procedure to vote of no confidence or of protest? Where in Europe does this freeze temporarily? In the desire to lock up these rights for six months is anti-European behaviour, not European. Secondly, isn't corruption a European problem? A few days ago Mrs. Tsacheva assured her that we need a common European Prosecutor's Office to combat our common problem with corruption. Which European leader told you: see there for six months not to talk about corruption? Is there one? Because we met with them and not one of them all the commissioners, did not even hint at these meetings that there should be no vote of no confidence. On the contrary, they accepted civilized and respectfully, with respect, colleagues, that Bulgaria's domestic policy is our business and democracy for poverty, there is no ice age for the theft. Thirdly, when you ask us and the Bulgarian people to remain silent for six months, will the theft stop? I doubt it. Dear Bulgarians, in a moment you will hear a single sentence from the stands, I am sure that they will say it, which should never be spoken in a democratic state, which will be: The BSP does not have the right to speak of corruption. [[Noise and lines.]] No, there is. Because behind these 80 socialists are one million Bulgarians. You can't tell a million Bulgarians: you won't talk! Dear colleagues from all parties and Bulgarians, you will never hear this sentence from the BSP: You will not speak! On the contrary, we respect you in your choice to vote for GERB, for DPS you are free people. We will criticize the government, we will criticize the leadership of GERB, but we will never allow ourselves to say: "You have no right to speak on behalf of those who sent you here." [[GERB lines.]] In a moment you will hear: The BSP should be silent, because they were ruled and were corrupt. They'll bring you back to the past so you don't think about what you're doing today, about your present. They will try to deprive the BSP of the moral right to be the leader of the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u21	You have no moral right, no moral right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u22	We won't let you! I will tell the Bulgarian citizens why we will not allow it. For at least two reasons. The first because BSP is the only party in Bulgaria, the only party that at its highest forum has made an analysis of its mistakes and accepted murderous self-criticism. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I quote: The behaviour of some of our officers in the management of different levels have disappointed people's expectations regarding the party as a moralist in politics. [[Noise and lines.]] Who can pronounce such a sentence? Only a brave, wise and honest politician to his constituents. Tell me what other party in Bulgaria has pronounced this sentence and has borne its responsibility? No one. So there's not even a reverse opinion, so there's no abstention there. One hundred votes for one hundred. That is why we have a moral right today to seek and fight corruption. Secondly, a year and a half ago, we announced our main goal: the destruction of the parallel country that steals 10 billion from you. BGN, honourable Bulgarian citizens! This parallel state immediately confronted us. First, the attempt with the carrot offered us to become a part of it, to sit at the table: for one President of Parliament; for another Minister, minister's chair. Next up, deputy ministers, maybe regional governors?! What did this parallel country hand us the carrot? Let's eat and keep quiet. It's not cultural to eat and talk against your host, even if it's corruption. We endured this, refused the parallel state to be part of it, despite the pressure outside Bulgaria, despite the pressure inside Bulgaria, despite the internal party pressure. We didn't agree to be a part of this parallel state. We didn't agree to be a part of this parallel state. We've declared against her. Then this parallel state pulled out the staff.. rained dirt, manipulations, lies, slandering and masquerading. You'll hear that in a minute, that's for sure. It will make us stronger and give us another moral basis to fight corruption, and it is that we have had the opportunity to become part of this several times, but we do not just want to change one to eat. We don't even want to share the table with them. We want to change the model of the 28-year-old management model of Bulgaria. Dear Bulgarians of all political colors, don't give up.. It can be difficult, it can be slow, but sooner or later, who steals from you, no matter what your own or foreign, will be imprisoned. Dear Bulgarians from GERB, BSP, DPS, before we are partyers we are all Bulgarians, just don't give up. Sooner or later, however difficult it may be, Bulgaria will become a normal country, I promise you that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to Mrs. Ninova's statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a personal explanation. Then Mrs. Tsacheva made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Mrs. Ninova, I understand that you divide the Bulgarians from your own example, only to those who can be bought or scared. That's how you're used to it during your precincts. [[Applause.]] I will vote with the third part, which clearly does not exist for you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] This third part, which has not participated in pillaging privatizations, has not participated in the creation, tolerance and preservation of corruption, cartels, monopolies and all others who rob the Bulgarian people. She has not participated in governments that have condemned the Bulgarian people to a slow and painful doom, leaving it with a few dollars' income. She hasn't been involved in governments that have imported budgets. [[Heckling]] The $10 billion you're talking about missing was also missing under your management. We have not participated in governments that have imported budgets... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u25	A personal explanation makes Mr. Mareshki why he would vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u26	Yeah, I'll vote with my third half. [[Laughter and raging]] The one who wasn't involved in that robbery, which apparently you were involved in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u27	Go on, Mr. Mareshki. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u28	I understand that you have no tolerance, no education, but since these debates are transmitted on the Bulgarian national television, you may at least have a little respect for your constituents who want to hear the truth. And the truth isn't, and we'll be showing it in a moment with a poster from two years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u29	Your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u30	The truth isn't that corruption is now. The truth is, corruption has been all these years you've ruled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u31	The weather, Mr. Mareshki. Thank you. Any other speeches? Mrs. Tsacheva said please come in. Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u32	Madam President of the National Assembly, Vice Prime Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I asked for the floor at the beginning of the debate because I do not want the debate on this so important topic to pass as a report on decisions at party conventions. [[Applause.]] I therefore believe that we need to go back to the motives of the importers, to those contained in them, and I am in a hurry with a confession. When I was reading the reasons for the draft decision requesting a vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy, I asked myself: are the signatures the draft decision and the motives part of the political life of the country during these months since 4 May? Because, esteemed MPs, the importers, to claim that the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs and not only cannot, but also does not, I quote:... to counter corruption is a deeply false statement, a speculative false statement. At the very least, because in those months a National Security Advisory Council was held, where you came up with an opinion.............................................................................................. This Advisory Council highlighted and discussed the main problems which unfortunately do not lead to the result that the whole society expects of us in the fight and fight against corruption. Your statement is false, because only if you see what are the prescriptions to the executive and to you, the MPs will become clear and the conclusion can be only one "the government works to implement the anti-corruption and anti-corruption programmes on the highest levels of power, as well as in the fight against petty corruption, but I will draw a little further attention to this. Before that, I would agree with the importers that according to the survey of the............ in 2017, nearly 83 percent of the people believe that corruption is a big problem in Bulgaria. Nobody's denying that. Moreover, days ago in Brussels, Prime Minister Borisov said, I quote: "Corruption is everywhere and we are fighting a huge battle." Why, however, do you, honourable Members of the Left, not state in the reasoning that corruption is such a problem not only in our country? Why are you doing this? I am convinced that you have the data of this study, I am convinced that they will not surprise you. I will allow myself very briefly to illustrate the manipulative approach in the motives when you justify your false claims. Ninety-six percent of Greeks and 94 percent of Spanish, Cypriots and Croats believe corruption is widespread in our society. Before the Bulgarians in this ranking were representatives of 12 other nations. To ask: Is it acceptable to give a gift to a clerk in order to receive a service from the administration?... 60 percent of the Hungarians and Latvians respond affirmatively, as well as 50 percent of the Croats. The Bulgarians are in ninth place. To ask: Is it acceptable to give money to a clerk in order to receive a service from the administration? To ask: "Are you personally affected by corruption in your everyday life?" the Bulgarians are back in the 12th place. According to the latest poll of the European Union, 68% of the people of the European Union generally believe that corruption is rampant in their country. The Bulgarians are back in 12th place. I do not submit the data you have, I am sure you know them to minimize the complexity of the problem of countering and fighting corruption. I only brought them in to make it clear the full picture. I also believe, if I am wrong, convince me the opposite that you speculate that you are only subtracting certain data to prove one, I repeat: a deeply false thesis! I will not go into comparisons of what it was like during the governments with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, but with your speech in the debate you provoked me to see what it felt like for the Bulgarians before 2009. Before the first cabinet of Prime Minister Borisov entered the government?! In 2007 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Regulation on the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the rules of procedure of the European Union for the participation of Member States in Union programmes in the field of research and technological development in the field of research and technological development in the field of research and technological development. This is the first year in which Bulgaria becomes a member of the European In 2009, this percentage was already 97. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The above proves that although this height falls to 83, I do not accept it, and no one in the cabinet. Both the Prime Minister and the majority MPs want us to have faster results, but to claim that there is no will, that nothing is being done, that there are no policies, is a deeply false statement. Several elements of these efforts in the years to overcome this ugly phenomenon of corruption. I think there's no question that fighting it should be fought systematically, not campaignly. There is no time forbidden for such debates, including during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This topic should stand and stand on the agenda of the Bulgarian society on a daily basis. But, I say again, not campaign, but only as a system of policies that consistently take place in the state, no matter who is in power or who is ruling. In 2009, the Integrated Strategy for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime was adopted. After the independent assessment of its impact in 2015, Prime Minister Borisov's second cabinet adopted the new National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. In implementation of the 2009 Strategy, in 2010 a Center for Prevention and Countering Corruption and Organized Crime was established at the Council of Ministers. In May 2015, the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council was established as an inter-agency body with advisory, coordination and control functions regarding the development and implementation of policies in the area of prevention and countering corruption. But to return, as I promised you at the beginning, to the implementation of the Advisory Council's opinion on executive power. The members of the National Security Advisory Council of the President of the Republic have united around the following proposals to the executive and legislative authorities. Firstly, to make changes to the Criminal Code on Corruption Crimes in order to adequately cover the forms of corruption not only in the public but also in the private sector. Secondly, the National Assembly should examine and adopt a Law on Countering Corruption. Thirdly, the new Law regulates comprehensive measures involving the prevention, seizure of illegally acquired property and the timely detection and investigation of crimes related to corruption of persons holding or holding senior public positions. Let's see what of these recommendations has not been fulfilled at the moment, for the little time, slightly more than eight and a half months, for which the responsibility for the management of the state bears the office of Prime Minister Borisov in his third edition. The government's efforts during this time were aimed at a comprehensive reform, I say again, according to the recommendation of the Advisory Council on Law. I will not dwell long and wide on the already adopted, promulgated in the State Gazette. The Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. This is the Law, which I dare say is one of the good examples of the way in which it was prepared with the participation of a wide range of experts, magistrates, NGOs, in preliminary assessment of the impact, such as none other, there is a whole new law after the amendments to the Law on Legislative Acts. Yes, we are waiting for the results and actions of this Law. But here is your responsibility, honourable MPs, within the terms of the Law to select the President, the leadership of the anti-corruption body, to start it effectively countering corruption, according to all the other powers and competences it has. Adopted changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. What do we achieve with them? It's already in effect. Faster justice, including corruption crimes on high levels of power; investigation and examination of corruption cases on high levels of power. You know that this was also applauded in the last November Report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, precisely for specialised courts to be involved in this power. The government proposed in September, and you adopted the amendments to the Administration Act to strengthen the role of inspectors, which the European Commission reports account for as an important structure responsible for internal control in the administration. And in order not to take the floor twice, I would like to say a few words about the work of the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council, as he has also found a place in your motives. An analysis of all anti-corruption plans of the ministries was carried out in this Council. It was given a deadline which expired on 15 January 2018 to identify the problems in order to adopt a final version of actions and measures to address corruption practices that are in all sectoral policies under all ministries. And when I talk that the government is conducting anti-corruption policies, there is no way I can not be tempted and return to the election platform of GERB, the management program, and do a brief analysis with the election platform of the left. Colleagues on the left, you mention in your election platform for systematic fight against corruption, do you know how many times? Zero! [[Reply and applause from GERB.]] The only thing you point out in the section of Justice and Justice about corruption is, I quote it verbatim: In order to eliminate corrupt practices, we will change some of the texts in the Public Procurement Act, such as clearly and specifically defining the elements of the element of existence and unforeseen circumstances, which are at the heart of changing the public procurement contracts. That's it! [[Noise and lines.]] We have said and I think it is clear enough: the fight to counter the crimes committed for corruption must be fought indefinitely. And it is not true that we have no results in this struggle, which I do not want to say that we do not want them to be better and not have this feeling among all of us and Bulgarian citizens on the topic of corruption. But here, to respect the judiciary, as they cannot share what the judiciary is doing on this subject, I will allow myself to provide you with the information I have from the Supreme Court of Cassation, by Mr. Panov, information related to the work on corruption cases for the period 2014 - 2017 under the criterion of an entity holding a senior public office, which is displayed on the Single Catalogue of Corruption Crimes introduced by the order of the Prosecutor General. Member of the National Assembly of 17 Members of the National Assembly for acts relating to tax crimes, for the conclusion of a bad deal, for crimes against the monetary system, for assistance to official embezzlement, for the purchase of votes, for extortion and for the assistance of a person to be prevented from being prosecuted against it. Executive power and budgetary organisations - 40 persons for official embezzlement and assistance, for abuse of office and bribery, for crimes of service, for carelessness, for tax crimes. Local authorities.. 17 representatives for crimes of service and bribery and again list the types of crimes. Forensics, 22 judges, prosecutors and investigators for abuse of office, for official embezzlement, for document crimes. Independent bodies.. 10 for crimes of service, for the conclusion of unfavorable contracts and bribery. State-owned companies and state-owned companies - five to make a bad deal. The total number of actual corruption cases over the same period is 57. What do the unbiased listener records show? There is will, the government can, the government implements its strategic documents and commitments consistently, systematically, complexly opposed to this ugly phenomenon. Make your contribution, gentlemen of the left, with proposals for other policies that the government has not thought of so far. But be well-intentioned, because from such opposition to this so important to the whole country and society, I do not believe that dividends will be made. I don't think of you either, that you believe that if you say an untruth a hundred times, it will become the truth, because I am convinced that these facts you know them, you account for them, but in this room is also the place where for political purposes, for the needs of the parliamentary debate are maintained statements. Bulgarian citizens will not believe that nothing is done by the Borisov cabinet, as you claim in the motives of the decision. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivan Ivanov and then Mr. Lachezar Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, I will read you an excerpt from the National Security Strategy 2011: Corruption and, in particular, high-level corruption remains one of the main problems of modern society. Corruption threatens the existence and compliance with social, legal and moral norms. Corruption opportunities create shortcomings in the management of the state and municipalities, expressing themselves consciously or due to incompetence, increasing and complicating permits and licensing regimes, lack of the necessary transparency and consistency in the award of public procurement and spending of public funds. Mrs. Tsacheva, this is 2011. After all the measures you have outlined here, after all the strategies you have adopted, after all the actions of the government. [[GERB noise and lines]] , in 2018 8 years later, in § 52 of the same updated Strategy you offer us the exact same text. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What have you been doing for eight years?! That's why we don't believe you! That's why! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, the Council of Ministers offers us this text. It's a recognition of corruption. Admit it, and support the vote! Thank you. [[Replyes: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor for procedure.]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u36	Honourable President, Vice Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a procedure in the way of conduct, because for an hour now there is no courage, the political one who is leading the government against whom the vote of no confidence is against, to come here. Is he afraid, is he worried, or does he not respect the National Assembly, which made him Prime Minister in its vote, regardless of how they voted for..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................! Can such an attitude from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to parliamentaryism in Bulgaria?! There is no country in which a vote of no confidence is voted in respect of the corruption policy of the government, not of a separate minister or a separate ministry, and the prime minister is not to be present here. If he's afraid, if he has any concerns, I understand him purely human. He probably won't find the expression forms to convince us how brave, how struggled he has done since 2011 so far, as we have just heard from the statement. Therefore, Madam President, given that it has already been an hour since the beginning of this meeting, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, I would like a break until the Prime Minister comes here so that he can explain to us what he has done. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u37	I am giving a 15-minute break at the request of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. At 2:15 p.m., come back to the gym. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u38	Colleagues, please take your seats. Fifteen minutes is up. We are continuing the debate. [[Voices of disapproval, as the Prime Minister is not present in plenary.]] Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Ms. Karayancheva, my procedure is in the way of conduct, as in the parliamentary state you stand highest. You are the person to defend parliamentaryism. I suppose you may have invited the Prime Minister, but he's not in the Chamber yet. In order to protect the Constitution in your position, you must ensure its presence here. Please take appropriate measures and ensure that the Prime Minister is present. I'll tell you why I have faith in you. Because you're a brave woman, unlike the coward who hid in the Council of Ministers! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u40	Mr. Mirchev, please don't insult the Prime Minister! I've notified him. He's following the debate, but he's got international meetings. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the vote of mistrust and the members of the Council of Ministers. They're insured. And the deputy prime ministers are here. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u41	That's right, procedure in the manner of conduct. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! The fact that the Prime Minister is watching the debate on the vote of no confidence from his cabinet during international meetings...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u42	There are international meetings!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u43	That doesn't work for me, and I'll explain why. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] I want to support this man right now, only I don't have a mechanism to address him and ask him what he meant. I'll tell you why I want to support him. In the last 10, 15 days...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u44	Your procedure is the way you conduct it. Turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u45	...he launched a thesis that this is the greenest government that has ever ruled Bulgaria, which I agree with.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u46	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Prodanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u47	But I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister if he meant, by lighting up the government, if that's the thesis...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u48	This is the minister of the press. Mr. Prodanov, you have a chance to speak. This is not a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u49	...that today's power likes what it gets, to be only green? But I don't have a chance to ask him. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u50	Please, I'll take your word for it! Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov. [[The National Representative Lachezar Ivanov is heading for the stands. People's representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for procedure.]] Procedure? I've given Mr. Ivanov my word. You'll wait a while. [[Loud shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm returning Mr. Ivanov a few times. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov. [[Loud shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria "Omission, resignation, resignation!" and banging on banks.]] Please be quiet! I'm gonna give you a procedure in a minute. Mr. Velkov agreed and sat down. Let's continue with Mr. Ivanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u51	I'll make a gesture and give it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u52	Okay. Mr. Ivanov is making a gesture to Mr. Velkov. Here you go, Mr. Velkov, for a line. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov made a gesture to Mr. Velkov. I had already announced the statement of Mr. Ivanov when I saw the raised hand of Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u53	Thank you, Madam President, for choosing me. Moreover, during the break Mr. Tsvetanov said: "Give Slavcho to speak. Is that right? That's right! Madam President, I had prepared to present to Mr. Prime Minister evidence of blatant corruption, an attempt to cover up corruption on a large smuggling deal at the Bulgarian border, including medicines, dear Minister Ananiev, but unfortunately he is not there. So I want to tell you that I have these materials. Since you don't want to call him here, we'll have to make them public.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u54	The D.A.'s office!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u55	I'd like to say this. I respect that the Bulgarian Prime Minister has his duties...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u56	In the manner of conduct! To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u57	Yeah, the way you run it. So I suggest you, Madam President, after these meetings are over, let's call him here. We'll wait. We can wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u58	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. And another procedure, Mr. Svilensky, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u59	Madam President, good afternoon to you too!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u60	Good afternoon, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u61	I didn't take the procedure today in the manner of conduct. Indeed, I feel uncomfortable precisely for you to have a procedure in the manner of conduct, but, Madam President, five Members of the National Assembly have made a procedure for the Prime Minister to sit in this chair here [[the chair on which the Prime Minister has to sit]] , on the day when a vote of distrust should be seen against his government. I am impressed that, here, in this part of the Chamber are ministers, for the first time participating in the government. Why did Mr. Borisov get scared, so he sent his colleagues to pick his shame now?! I'm looking at Mr. Ananiev looking interesting, Mr. Radev looking interesting. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u62	There are ministers who have been to other departments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u63	Do these fellow Members deserve to carry out all the criticisms that have brought this government together for the fight against corruption?! And you continue to hide Mr. Borisov! Is it that scary? Mrs. Ninova spoke, said her reasons. He can now come and sit quietly, listen to Mr. Velkov's motives, the motives of other colleagues who will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u64	All right, Mr. Svilensky. I understand your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u65	Well, when you found out, what did you do? [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u66	I've informed the Prime Minister. I told you he had international meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u67	Our wish, Madam President, is to interrupt the meeting until the Prime Minister arrives. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] It is a precedent in the Bulgarian Parliament to look at a vote of mistrust and not to have a prime minister! You brought, by the way, seven-eight deputy ministers. They can be replaced at any time. There's no need for a no-confidence vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u68	The ministers are currently in Brussels. You know that we are presiding over the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u69	At any time, these deputy ministers can be replaced not by this House. So don't make fun of the Bulgarian voters, the MPs. Let this chair, which Mr. Simeonov has taken, be filled with content.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u70	Why, can't I lean on this chair?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u71	Of course, stay and listen. [[Voices from all over the room:.. Procedure, procedure....]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u72	Procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Shopov. Here you go. Let's give the others a chance to give me some advice. You can't be the only one! Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u73	Madam President, this is exactly what I would like to advise you not to enter into a conversation with the speakers, neither the opposition nor the government, and with me, as I am speaking at the moment. Because that's exactly what the opposition is after. The French say the deja vu. I don't claim to know French. Here, the Francophones can apostrophy me for pronunciation and pronunciation. We Bulgarians say to him: "This film has long been seen. We can say it in another way. " This film has been seen many times since it is infinitely uninteresting for the government, for the opposition. The goal is to reextreme, to create an abscess again, to become something to attract attention. Because on the subject of the vote we are looking at now, just ten days ago, we were debating again, arguing, fighting, fighting on the president's veto. We saw this theme at the first reading of the Law before the New Year. So it's infinitely uninteresting to society, however important it may be, because the opposition is devolving it, and now it's trying to pull it out again and make it interesting. And that could happen again with a scandal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u74	To me, Mr. Shopov! Let the remark be to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u75	Therefore, Madam President, my advice to you is to master the Chamber, not to give out emotions, including the government, to pass things quietly, calmly, formally, as is the rule. That's the point, that's the point, but that's not the purpose of the gentlemen's exercise on the left. [[Loud shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. [[Many MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u77	It's an abuse of rights!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u78	Colleagues, let's limit the procedure in the manner of conduct, because this is an abuse of rights, as I'm told. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u79	Where's Maslarova?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u80	Madam President, I'm addressing you, but first something is hot Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u81	Here you go, Mr. Gokov. I gave the floor to you, not to Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u82	Madam President, I'm addressing you. I respect you very much, I even sympathize with you... [[the MP addresses the President, loud noise in GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u83	Tell it to the microphone, Mr. Gokov, so everyone can hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u84	Madam President, I must tell you that you are not performing your duties. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Do you think it's normal when you look at the vote of mistrust of a government, that the one who runs the government, is absent from the House?! You say he had important international meetings. And didn't you, as President of the National Assembly, specify with him when his important international meetings are, so as to schedule the extraordinary meeting of parliament when he does not have important international meetings?! And do you think that these important international meetings are more important than what is said in this room about this beastly and embodiment of corruption, which you say you know very well about? But you don't want to take action. With this behaviour of the Prime Minister you show it in practice to the entire Bulgarian people. Do you think, Madam President, that those people standing in front of the TVs believe that you are performing your duties and making an extremely good impression? Do we not confirm in these people that we are no longer a parliamentary republic, but a Prime Minister's Republic?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u85	Mr. Gokov, will you allow me to answer that question?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u86	I could go much further in this spirit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u87	I understand what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u88	I believe that you should call off the meeting and until the Prime Minister arrives, do not proceed to this meeting! Everything else is completely irrelevant to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u89	I'm not going to adjourn! Here are all the ministers from the government and those deputy ministers whose ministers are in Brussels. A staff of the Council of Ministers is provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u90	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u91	I believe that the debates should continue. Final procedure please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! There is no way to continue the meeting without the Prime Minister for the simple reason that when it comes to corruption, I have direct questions to him, and I do not believe that you will answer me. But let's try it. I have a question: when was the corruption in Bulgaria greater? When he was head of a security firm or when he was prime minister? Maybe one of the ministers will answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u93	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u94	Yes, I would like, if you can't ensure the Prime Minister's presence here, you can answer me. I hear Mr. Ivanov wants to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u95	Mr. Ivanov has been wanting to answer for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u96	I would also like to be answered by the second question: is it corruption when the wife of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior in a single mandate acquired a bank with at least a hundred privatized properties inside? Is that corruption? Which of the ministers will answer? Madam President, answer me. When a woman buys the bank of Slavcho Hristov this is CIBANK, when immediately afterwards and at that time she lives with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u97	In the manner of conduct! You asked me the questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u98	...do you think this is corruption? I think it's corruption. Well, if that's the case, let's talk about it. Who should I discuss it with if there is no Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior in question? Who to discuss it with, if there is no man who was and grew up, he grew up a lot! He was head of a security firm, became prime minister. How can we not discuss this when we are talking about corruption?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement. I hope you can answer some of the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u100	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! I'm gonna start with this corruption thing because there's a lot of talk. There are many definitions of corruption. In general, corruption means abuse of office for the purpose of personal benefit. Corruption means the receipt of illegal payment for services or for the use of the office for the pursuit of illegal purposes. Corruption has no political colour, no government of its own. The creation of corruption and corruption schemes requires many years of building relations between business and accordingly responsible administrative and political figures. With this introduction, I would like to point out that the Political Party GERB has been on the field since 2009, and corruption has not started since 2009, gentlemen. I will conduct a historical review and analysis of the creation of corruption in Bulgaria since 1989. I will start with the genesis of post-communist corruption in Bulgaria. One of the reasons for the growing in progression corruption in the early 1990s came from three legal acts that allowed this. The first is the Law on Cooperatives; the second......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These three regulations are the basis for the exemption of cooperatives, foundations and sports organisations from taxes and fees, which allow through such structures, which immediately constitute powerful criminal groups, to accumulate the initial capital and the actions following them. All of these operations have one single goal -- the state's savings, and the money saved goes to fund the forming mafia in the early 1990s. This is how the formation of the parallel state began, which was given by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Thus began the formation of the parallel state in 1992 the government, headed by Andrey Lukanov, adopted a decision establishing a preferential regime for foundations. The decree became the basis for legitimate implementation of disguised speculative transactions which created unfair competition on the market from imports and the sale of goods with an unjustified low dumped price. This decision gives foundations, cooperatives and sports organisations the right not to pay taxes, but to be an opportunity to pass assets into private companies. The corporate philosophy of BSP at the beginning of the transition is built on three main pillars. Listen up! [[Radio.]] The first pillar is the so-called entry-exit economy. She had to provide some of the financial resources for the growing power of the oligarchy related to the BCP and the secret services of the regime. What is the mechanism of action of the entry-exit economy? As a result of this model, huge amounts of public money were drained, leading to a collapse of growth opportunities and an increase in gross domestic product. A large group of people were deprived of the prospect of improving their incomes, and oligarchy and the mafia gained their initial financial power. In practice, the mechanism works by placing the entrance of the state-owned non-performing enterprise private companies, supplier of raw materials and services at increased prices. The State-owned enterprise buys the raw materials and services in question and produces its production. At the output of the production, which is sold at fixed prices, is again placed a firm intermediary that sells the finished production already at market prices. In other words, all losses remain for the state enterprise, at the expense of the taxpayer. The profits remained in the companies and trusted people. The second pillar was robbing through the banking system. Criminal capital owed its rapid growth to the emerging decapitalization in the public sector. State-owned enterprises recorded significant losses and sought to transfer these losses to external sources, especially to the banking sector. The increase in the debt of the banking system has become a major source for covering up the losses of state-owned enterprises in the real sector. Too much of this debt was and was transferred to bad loans, according to BNB data in 1995, private sector loans at the end of 1995 amounted to 179.7 billion, which actually enabled banks to become indebted. The third is through cash and mass privatization. In an interview with Mrs. Nora Ananieva in 2013, she said, quote: "What red briefcases, people?! This is the most accurate characteristic of corruption, its ideologists and cynicality of the host of the BCP, today "BSP for Bulgaria". Specific examples of corruption related to BSP. All the heads of the BNB in most so-called private banks up until 1997 were either former members of the BCP nomenclature, or state and substance collaborators of totalitarian services, or both. The former senior BCP nomenclature was involved in most cases of smuggling during the first Yugoslav. Then over 400 major transactions were detected with various goods from Yugoslavia, which damaged the state and the state treasury with more than 250 million dollars. As a result of dozens of cases of fuel smuggling, hundreds of millions of dollars have been damaged by the state. Naturally, such large-scale smuggling is not possible without the participation of state structures, people from the highest levels of power. A Christomatian example of this time is the so-called case Atia. In 1993, the military base of Atia was discovered smuggling cigarettes for millions of dollars. He was involved in a former state security officer and Syrian citizen, a DHS agent from the 1980s. Party funding through commissary service to remind the Caves, the scandal "Petrol" "Iraqian oil" foods. What do you say? To mention the affair of Monica Stanisheva. I can tell you a lot. Everything said so far shows how corruption is built in Bulgaria, who are its idea creators and current millionaires, patrons of BSP. With the above examples I give the chronology of the creation of corruption schemes, their construction, their connections and the establishment of the parallel state. Where did you see the political party GERB in building the parallel state, I ask? In the reasons set out by BSP, it appears that they want to attribute corruption as such only to the government of GERB, so I felt obliged to give this chronology. In your motives you have been sliding on different topics as a skier in a skiing slalom competition, bypassing the essence of the problems. In your arguments, you see a journalist-sociological finding that there is no author, but there is only an importer. How would you answer me, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, about the achievements of the GERB party in terms of economic growth and the rising credit rating of Bulgaria?! Lowest unemployment rate since 2008, gross domestic product growth, measures have been taken in the years of the GERB government to increase funds for education, health care, pensions and a number of others. There is an increase in the incomes of the NRA and Customs. Where do you think all this could have come from?! Your critics would answer me: from the European programmes. I will say: yes, because in the management of GERB they are all open even with the slightest doubts, you well know, European programs are stopped. GERB implements large-scale constructions to improve road infrastructure, which enabled many investors to come to Bulgaria to do business and to do businesses. Ladies and gentlemen of the BSP! With your no-confidence vote tabled at this very moment, when Bulgaria is the centre of Europe and the focus of all of us, you show your absolute political weakness and weakness. Your attempts to discredit Bulgaria and its achievements will not bring you dividends. Instead of all of us being united for prosperity in the name of Bulgaria, you have tried to raise your party above this through this vote, but this will not remain so. It will be punished both internally and internationally. You are trying to put your mark by trying to mask Bulgaria's name in service of your backstage games. Laugh, Mrs Cornelia! [[Radio.]] Ninova! You, Mrs. Ninova, are trying with your last strength to save your political party from the disintegrating internal party problems and contradictions. To save yourself from uncomfortable topics about Technoimpex, where you have no answers to questions: how exactly did they choose you? Your husband? Where did you get that money? What did you do with the accounts left in the foreign trade banks? You are not giving answers to these essential questions, but at the same time trying to shift the focus and attention from you by talking about corruption, injustice, the rule of law. It does not suit you to talk about these topics, especially about the parallel state, as you are an example of how the transition becomes rich. Whose back? ▪ Those poor workers who do not receive salaries. Many of our BSP colleagues bragged and took hold of your raincoat, and look like homeless, orphaned children who look to you in hopes of saving them, their political future to be saved. [[Radio.]] But there are people with dignity among you. There are also people with dignity who were immediately forced by Mrs. Ninova. Now you are looking at GERB and its coalition partners, their success in the foreign and internal policy plan, where we received high praise from our European partners in the face of President Macron, Chancellor Merkel, Mrs Teresa May, Mr Juncker and other high-ranking politicians. Ten times in a row you lost elections from GERB and in the last elections and, ha, to win, but Naisi. [[Radio, laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] You lost again! Once again you lost and remained in opposition again disappointed and bitter! And these windows are teeming with countless craven things - constructions, roads, renovations, factories, investment in agriculture. [[Radio, laughter and lines in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And all that remains is a mirage! Well, you can't! You can't. You're in a lot of pain. [[Radio.]] You're in a lot of pain! With these scandals and constant threats, lies and hysterical excuses, which Mrs Cornelia Nino has led you to, it will not lead you to gain people's trust. The future is of people who are building politicians, mostly statesmen, such as Mr. Borisov, who raised... [[(Radio.) Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Yeah, yeah! Who rose from politician to statesman and international factor! It is the twenty-first century of politicians and statesmen who are capable of dialogue and of being dialogue and constructive people who build bridges. That's why BSP doesn't have a leader to transfer it to the 21st century. The strength of our party is the leader Boyko Bosirov, who without fear reveals all schemes... [[(Radio.) Announcements from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo! More! More!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u101	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u102	...of corruption, no matter where they come from. He is the man who himself brings out the corruption schemes, points out the persons and passes them on to the prosecution, whether it pleases our party ranks or not! This makes us strong and helps us to maintain trust in people. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing my speech with this... [[(Radio.) Announcements from BSP for Bulgaria: More! More!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u103	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u104	...to ask BSP colleagues: how did you fight corruption? What have you done to fight corruption in the last nine months? [[(Strong noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.) More! More!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u105	Please be quiet, colleagues! Please be quiet! Proceed, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u106	I think that this vote, apart from being reflected in all international and information sources, can absolutely nothing contribute to the prosperity of the state, much less to the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u107	Madam Chairman, listen to what she's reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u108	I appeal to you, colleagues of the BSP, with the words: humility, reason, analysis and dialogue. This is the way to strengthen the state, and hence your political power, which has lost its appearance and its ideology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Speaking, Mr. Stoynev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u110	I'm asking for an extension of time, but because...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u111	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u112	...this tone of the debate has been set in motion, and as we return to the past again, to talk about what happened and the role of the BCP, ultimately, as a right-wing party, it is a little strange that the people leading in it are former members of the party in which they were eventually born, raised and most of all, who fed you and who are now spitting. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] As members: Konstantin Popov a member of the BCP; Plamen Manushev a member of the BCP; Plamen Nunev a member of the BCP; Emil Hristov a member of the BCP; Dimitar Glauchev a Komsomol secretary; Vladimir Toshev a member of the BCP;...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u113	Now all these people will ask for a personal explanation, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u114	... Tsvetan Tsvetanov. The father of Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who was the driver of Grigor Shopov, the man from the State Security who fed you;...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u115	On the subject, Mr. Stoinev, let the debate be on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u116	...the mother of the nation, Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva a member of the BCP. I still have to approach the young generation. Respected by all, Mr. Danny Kirilov, city councillor from BSP. [[Noise, lines and applause in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course, I will not dwell on what Anton Todorov said in the way he described Lilyana Pavlova's family, because I think it is really wrong, and what Mr. Bikov spoke about the Pearl in the Crown, Mr. Boyko Borisov, who...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u117	Mr. Stoinev, let's talk about this!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u118	...of course, he left the Ministry of Interior to remain a member of the party, but what you are doing now clearly shows your morality. A man who was part of the Triple Coalition, a MP who spits, who put pressure on television to stop a report about a customs officer who had to be appointed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This guy gets out here, on the stand, and gives moral judgment. See, that's the difference between you and me. But you want to debate this way. You'll get it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. First of all, lines. [[The National Representative Plamen Manushev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] In a minute. Is there anyone who wants a line? I can't see. For a personal explanation, there is the word Admiral Plamen Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since they started with a general and me, as a second, as members of the BCP, I can't help but go out and say a few words. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] The mother party didn't feed us. We have served Bulgaria our whole lives. In the sea, we never drowned in the name of the BCP. [[Applause from GERB.]] And I'll tell you, no matter how excited you get, it doesn't make sense. I'll tell you what I want to tell you. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] The nineteen years came and said: "The who wants to remain faithful to the BCP to leave. Whoever wants to stay to serve Bulgaria, stay! We have remained with this general and served Bulgaria fairly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u121	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u122	Madam President, it would be funny if it wasn't so sad. Did you enjoy this essay, is it a pamphlet I don't know its literary appearance? You did not mention that it is not at all on the subject, but it is not at all on the subject, neither chronologically nor factually nor by any other indicator. You remembered to make a proper remark to Mr. Stoinev because he wasn't on the subject either,...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u123	He was completely off the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u124	No, no, they were both completely off the subject, and we at the DPS warned. We warned both BSP and others, and in the media that this debate would become exactly that... a denial of the goals it sets itself. Because so put this important topic, which everyone thinks is important, how do you think it is perceived by Bulgarian citizens? How, Mrs. Ninova, do you think they accept your wonderful speech and address, after what is being played in this House? We at the DPS address you first. Somehow try to maintain the authority of the institution at least by staying in the topic, however this topic is not convenient for all of us Bulgarian politicians. To maintain respect for those who watch and listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen! I'm gonna try to be on the subject of no-confidence. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will strongly support this no-confidence vote to the cabinet Borisov 3, but as my colleague Tsonev mentioned just now, so far, the speakers have profanized, have lowered the level of the debate itself. Corruption, colleagues, to me, is just one of the consequences of the type of ridiculous management, and we need to look for the root cause in that. Both for me and for the DPS the reason is this disastrous, dangerous model, as I said; the model that does not offer a clear vision; the model that does not offer a clear management strategy and thus the model itself predisposes to corruption. It is an indicator of the morality of power and from here the abuse of power, which colleague Ivanov talked about the definition of corruption, led to corruption itself. There can be no greater threat than this type of government generating corruption, namely the stability of the state, the stability of democracy, and the stability of national security. Why would I say that? Because the link between corruption and national security is illustrated through this so-called "Corruption perception." This corruption perception index for Bulgaria is of the order of 41 points, and we occupy one of the last places as a member of the European Union, and we remain the most corrupt country on the continent. It's not my conclusion, it's Transparency International's. I will set out some facts that concern the current government. I will not go back to the past, because this does not correspond to my views as a Member of the National Assembly in this Parliament. We have two deputy prime ministers from the nationalist formations. One is without portfolio and became famous, colleagues, precisely with its noisy shares to liquidate the noise in Sunny Beach. The same did not see or close his eyes to the mass spread of national socialist souvenirs on the Black Sea coast, and also in Sofia. But what does Deputy Minister Georg Georgiev say? Quoting: We pursue all forms of racism, ethnic intolerance, religious intolerance, including anti-Semitism. The very existence of such souvenirs undermines the authority of Bulgaria and spoils the positive image among foreigners. On the one hand, outside and in front of our European partners, we are talking one thing and, on the other, we are doing quite another. Madam President, I will address you as the highest authority in the country and the chairman of the political formation GERB, as the prime minister is absent. I hold in my hand an answer from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works [[shows the answer]] . This answer is on our request for the annexation of two buildings which are in violation of the Code of Conduct on the territory. One was partially removed by a decision, but subsequently there are annexes that are still in violation of the Law on Structure of the territory and the Municipality of Zlatograd does not take part in its role as a contractor for these violations. According to the second remark, there is a removal of these violations. Here, Madam President, you may ask your Deputy Prime Minister because he is responsible for these things: why have these violations not been implemented? See, this is corruption in the state of being empowered and doing nothing. I'm opening an even bigger clamp. An activist who resigned from NFSB, today a ruling party, was caught for traffic, for sewerage in Bulgaria. Confession, paroled with six other people. And if this is not corruption based on participation in the power that generates corruption in this way, tell him health. Dear colleagues, a month and a half ago the other Deputy Prime Minister, who is the leader of the IMRO and Minister of Defence, led a march with torches, denying the New Year's treaty, which is long past limitation, but at the same time Bulgaria, noticed, identified its priorities and they were loudly proclaimed in the National Assembly and one of the leading priorities is the Western Balkans. On the one hand, the Deputy Prime Minister has protested against the stolen territories from Romania, Serbia, Greece, Macedonia, and, on the other hand, we are going out to the European partners with the opposite. The duality of power, colleagues, is obvious and this is a huge problem for national security. The government has been ruling for eight years now. If I get into the subject, I can't say anything good about the Air Force. You know what happened. We're still waiting on the new procedure for the new aviation combat technique. We were in front of a contract for the Navy, and it's gone. I will leave the subject of ground troops without comment, because we have only media appearances there. And what do we hear? We hear he thinks he's volunteering for military service. Stupidity, because in six months, colleagues, nor can you prepare good soldiers, nor can you build skilled reservers. But money can be spent, huge money. Here, this is the covert corruption in power. That is the problem, colleagues, in the inadequacy of such a political coalition ruling the country. Inadequacy caused by the absurdity of being European and along with being an extreme nationalist and chauvinist. Power must choose one or the other. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Any lines to Mr. Ibryamov's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u128	Madam President, honourable Members, I think we'll talk about corruption and we've been talking about 1001 nights. I'm taking occasion from the last statement I didn't understand where corruption was. Perhaps the fact that the United Patriarchs, who here, from this tribune, were called extreme chauvinists and nationalists, drew out the eyes of some. That's right, gentlemen. That's how it's gonna be. The Bulgarian people woke up and will never again allow an ethnic party to be a balancer and decide the fate of Bulgaria. That's how it's gonna be! About the facts you're putting out because you ended up with defense, planes, recruitment service, volunteer service. I remember that when there was a selection of military service some were good soldiers, others were good workers, but society was moving forward. It's not about spending money at all. It is about preparation, but this is another topic on another debate that is not related to corruption. But since you tried so thinly to bring the army and my humble personality into this topic, I will ask you: You are a member of the Defence Committee, why not make an arithmetic in the governments in which you participated? I mean the King's Government.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And you mentioned that. How much?! If you don't know, come on in, I'll tell you. Do you want me to list them for you? [[Replys: "Yes. "]] Let me list them for you, but since Mr. Ibramov goes out and talks, let him say for these eight years how much money was spent on defense, who took the commissions, who received prizes for this purely political awards, and what happened to this technique? Regarding the facts you use. I told you they weren't adequate at all. You mentioned November 27th "The New York Treaty. First, I will correct you historically.Macedonia has not cut off territories from Bulgaria, Macedonia has been cut off from Bulgaria. Second, this covenant and in general the entire system of treaties.. 1919, in every country that has been wronged, including a country that is close to you to your heart, are marked as something bad, with which they have been harmed by the then Great Powers. I see nothing wrong with the Bulgarian people having a memory and knowing that stupid political decisions lead to punishments in consequences, but since you have developed a whole thesis about bad nationalists, I will tell you something simply: you have not checked your facts. I have not been to the procession. I was just not in Bulgaria. I was going to go, but I wasn't at that procession. So, when you come out of the stands and throw accusations against the United Patriarchs, they're your biggest thorn, we all know it, but check the facts, who's been where, who's been doing what, and don't forget where you've been and what you've been doing in management for the past 25 years. Personally, I think the issue of corruption is very important. Yeah, there's corruption. Unfortunately, there has been a very serious corruption for twenty-seven, eight years, but on all these issues with similar debates, from which someone can raise their ratings, something or so they think, the Faida, as your language says, will not have. [[Reply: "Yok."]] Faida, yok! [[Laughter]] It would have an effect if really the whole parliament... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] We've studied it, we've studied it in the same barracks where you say it's bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u129	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u130	But it would have an effect if we talked specifically about what needs to be done and how to do it. Because when the Anti-Corruption Act was also discussed... [[DPS lines.]] Those torn clothes are yours. [[Noise and lines.]] The torn clothes and shoes at BGN 255. There was one on your desk. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u131	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u132	Excuse me, Madam President, I must not get into an argument with people who, unfortunately, believe that the world has been going on since the United Patriarchs have been in power for eight months. Dear gentlemen, I propose a constructive dialogue, not pathetic speeches or false information with hollow accusations, with which I generally do not know what you want to achieve, but the effect that awaits society as a whole from all sides of the room, will not be achieved with such cheap exercises, cheap circuses of the ninth month, of which we may need to show our voters how good and concerned we are, but the effect will be zero if there is no frank conversation on the subject if there is no common desire to achieve anything at all levels. I can say that there have been very few measures taken, as corruption is not only on the highest levels of power. Yes, there is, but corruption begins with the most ordinary small-time clerk who smashes the ordinary Bulgarian citizen who does not have your phone or my phone to call and complain or solve his problem. And that is why my colleague Tomislav Donchev at the beginning of this autumn session of the past year proposed and was played out a whole program of measures for all ministries to ease the regimes where people are waiting to receive one, another or third document, waiting to get a certificate and delaying the initiative to do one or another. Measures are taken. Measures are also taken in the fight in the upper levels of power, but I say again that there would be an effect if this debate were to be conducted calmly, not from the point of view of opposition, ruling and seeking a cheap political dividend, because you all know very well that this vote will not pass. Come on, at least have some effect of this debate and something real to happen, so that after it or after a month, after two, people can say, "From this Parliament and from this government there is some benefit. And we can all do it together if there's a common desire. If we're looking for cheap dividends and we're wondering how to beat our political opponent, it's not gonna happen. Thank you, Madam President and honourable Members, for the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Angelov, in the manner of conduct. Then, fellow Members, we continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, you allow speeches from this tribune that are not on the subject. Mr. Ibryamov made a statement in which he didn't talk about any corruption and didn't make a single remark to him. That's not right. When there is a debate on the topic of Corruption and a vote of mistrust on the topic of Corruption, there should be talk about these problems. Mr. Ibryamov's entire statement was in the sphere of fantasy and in all other things that they considered to be problems, but not about corruption. My request is that all those who speak from this tribune in today's debate speak on the ground, make remarks and guide them. True, the DPS would hardly talk about corruption for other political forces, because in the end, almost three decades they have to talk about themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Ibryamov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u136	Madam President, colleagues! I'm taking the floor the way it is. Madam President, you have allowed from the parliamentary tribune Deputy Prime Minister and Minister to insult the Bulgarian party on ethnic basis. I remind you that I have not met any official document anywhere, but I remind you that there is an official document from the European Commission since 2013, which announces two formations in Bulgaria as fascists and they are in the government of the state this year. That's the truth. Madam President, interrupt a minister or deputy prime minister when he speaks untruths about Bulgarian aviation or fighting technique. Bulgarian aviation is now grounded. [[Loud noise and lines.]] They're not working now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u137	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ibryamov. Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u138	Now neither the planes are operational, we've witnessed a landing of two helicopters...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u139	To me, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u140	Yes, to you: interrupting such ministers and deputy prime ministers, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u141	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I admit I expected more from you. [[Loud noise and lines. It's a thrill. Laughter. Partial applause.]] I admitted that I expected concrete and clear examples and evidence of corruption, not empty talk again. I admit that I really wanted something to show the Bulgarian people that it will happen and you will start talking about something better. But how can there be a constructive dialogue here, how can there be a constructive vote of distrust like all of you realize that a constructive vote of distrust is built on this, first of all, to have a programme....... alternative, and to propose an alternative prime minister? Well, that's not gonna happen, because the only group that can offer a prime minister who's never been involved in looting the state. [[crowd cheering, loud noise]] And it has nothing to do with corruption, it's Volya. [[Applause by.. Volya............................................................................................. Laughter. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u143	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u144	These days I hear from representatives of BSP that they are not the status quo that they are the alternative. Here is the first huge propaganda: who, if not you, are not the status quo?! Am I the status quo? Is it the status quo?! I was a teenager in your day, and I remember those years when theaters were killed, operas destroyed, moral values. You have raised the chalga into a cult as cultural wealth, so that today you may call the people Debbilís and bad material. [[Loud noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]] Is that going to be the alternative? Colleagues, be honest most of all and above all to your own sympathizers the people who really carry the left idea in their heart. Turn to them and tell them what your mistakes are, what you have made as a mistake, because we know that you are exactly the same.. you will simply replace the people of GERB with your people and again the people will stay at the back. Mrs. Ninova, one question to you: which part did you vote for distrust? With the one that privatized with the UDF or the one that tolerated corruption in BSP? You answer these questions and answer the Bulgarian citizens what pensions, what education and what healthcare there was at the time when BSP managed. So I, with a clear conscience, will vote on a vote of no confidence that we are discussing today against it, as I would also vote against a vote of confidence in the current government. [[(Voices: "Eee!") Applause by "Volja".)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I'll give you a few seconds to remind you of some facts. [[Shows a poster that says: "National Liberation Movement for the Pure and Holy Republic."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u147	Mr. Mareshki, please do the speech, then show it to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u148	We are talking about the National Liberation Movement of the Pure and Holy Republic of 2016 when we started this fight and put corruption in the first place, in the second place, cartels, in third place, smuggling. I am glad that almost two years later you find the strength to start talking about corruption, and for a few days you have touched on the topic of "Contraband," though quite superficial, but not a word about the cartels in which you have obviously participated in their creation, patronizing them and their help in robbing the Bulgarian people. Yeah, to be honest, two days ago, Mr. Zarkov may have dropped out, or I don't know, but he said on a broadcast in the national media that he'd probably find out there's a cartel in fuel. I congratulate him, but in my opinion this is a missed reply and he never again, as well as everyone else from the BSP for Bulgaria, will not mention the word "cartel" in the fuels, and I suppose that the other cartels, which now the whole business is talking about, are also talking about in the trade of goods and so on. Your timing is weak. That would be the motto of my speech. You've been waiting two years to find out that corruption is already insufferable and must be fought. I'll also address my colleagues from the DPS. November in the negotiations on a no-confidence vote, we said that we are currently not seeing an alternative to the political sky. We will not be angry that this initiative was taken from us in December and was mentioned by your Honorary President, who repeated it and you took it. We are glad that you follow the signs we give. A little later we said a second thing that we will not participate in this circus, in which all Bulgarian citizens were convinced that this vote of distrust is turning and that we will not participate in its submission. Again a month later, you followed us into this thing, and I believe that this is the right position. We are now giving you another opportunity, honourable colleagues from the DPS, and also from the BSP. Follow us into the third thing. Corruption is really something very important and we must fight against it every day. Not just to talk, to fight real action. But it is not the no-confidence vote that we are fighting this fight. So follow us in the third thing, follow us in not supporting this pointless vote of mistrust, because this is the real, responsible, stately act, because the contrary means chaos. A no-confidence vote is being made to overthrow a government. Bringing down a government would drive the country today to chaos, to timelessness, to further, even higher, widespread corruption. Take a look at the examples we give you from the Will and move on. Why is this vote pointless? Because the status quo is not weak enough to surrender, and the alternative, the real alternative, is not yet strong enough to take the place. When the time comes, we'll give you a signal, you don't miss it. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any lines to Mr. Mareshki's statement? I can't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mrs. Yoncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u150	(BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers! A short time ago a GERB MP made a statement and because of its fundamental importance, I would like to remind him, quote: The strength of the party GERB is Boyko Borisov, who bravely smashes all corruption schemes. Apparently GERB has a sense of humor. And so in the meantime, in the conditions of banter and jokes, corruption in Bulgaria has become a living norm, inevitability. It is now a domestic standard, starting with small bribes for officials, public procurement receipts, purchased diplomas and bought driver's licenses. You managed to bring corruption even to kindergartens. Today there is already a concentration of power in entire municipalities, where politicians through placed companies of business partners, relatives, are siphoning public resources for millions. Financial and economic schemes of people close to power now lead to contract killings. A management model has already been created that transforms district cities into feudal domains of goons, businessmen, politicians. Possessions where the law does not apply to the one close to the mayor, to the police, to GERB. Possessions where the Bulgarian, who is not part of the corruption scheme, has no chance of prosperity. Everywhere you set up contests, negotiated orders. Lack of competition kills every business, takes the right to the future of entire generations. You even managed to create a legal corruption scheme, a 2 billion-dollar scheme. lv. The sanitization. That's how. In the beginning you do not give reference values for the price of the renovation, there are cases where the renovation of certain buildings is more expensive than if they are rebuilt. The money for the renovation was repeatedly increased and this became clear as early as 2015 when the state paid over 300 BGN. of sq. m. For comparison only, at the same time under the European program "Energy renewal of Bulgarian homes" buildings are renovated at the price of 114 BGN. of sq. M, i.e. twice as cheap. Large public procurement contracts are earned by certain companies related to power. In Haskovo, for example, the last Sanitation Order since June 2017, with 130 companies participating, 10 units of 11 have been won by the family-friendly circle of the Regional Coordinator of GERB, for which we have documents and have provided them to the Prosecutor's Office. Lack of real competition leads to poor quality of sanitization. There are many examples. But the model in Haskovo Municipality is a model of how GERB works in other municipalities as well. This is the management model of Bulgaria today. This model is so much more than just a shrub. There is an unscrupulous and insolent scheme of subjugation of municipalities from one circle with a clear purpose of trading in public, with municipal resources. To remind you in a nutshell. In Haskovo Municipality, which is an example of how the schemes are carried out, at the request of the Regional Coordinator of GERB are appointed to key positions relatives and former partners from the same regional governor of GERB and MP. I would like to recall a deputy mayor, a portfolio of staff, a former partner, a second deputy mayor, a former associate, a director of the financial directorate, a first cousin and a former associate, a chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, a son-in-law, a husband of the director of the financial agency. The latter is a shareholder in over 40 companies that in Haskovo region earn public procurements for more than 50 million. BGN, only for the last two and a half years. One of these companies is in the top three companies in the country that sanitize buildings under the Energy Efficiency Programme. There is no doubt that these financial and economic schemes in the country, organised by your district coordinators, generate corruption, generate poverty in our homeland. These schemes are used to win elections as part of the resource is also used to buy media influence. Bulgaria has collapsed on media freedom for a reason. From 34th place 2006 A place we shared with France today is 107th place. Another form of political corruption and racketeering known as Sudjuk Gate. About the popularity growing blackmail of 4 tons of sudzhuk revealed a whole management scheme in the form of corruption. You have even tried to secure corruption by limiting the information about the partition facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, the so-called "Round." The facility was built poorly. The projects for the fence have changed and differ significantly from the original assignment of the Ministry of Interior. This was even found in a report by the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. I'd ask the Prime Minister if he were here how you'd explain to the public that 180 million was spent. lv. For the fence along the Turkish border, even before winter began to fall? Why not take responsibility from the district governors? Responsibility by the performers? Why and how have they changed the projects in the implementation process? How would you explain that a much better fence as technical parameters between Greece and Turkey costs significantly cheaper? Gentlemen of GERB, you say that corruption is not a problem, that there was only a sense of corruption. One of our political partners, the United States of America, says about the management of Borisov, about the management of GERB the following, I quote a State Department report: The employees in all branches of governments are involved in corruption practices, with impunity. Corruption practices also include complex borrowing schemes. Why doesn't the Prime Minister answer what these complex schemes are? Who? Why aren't you investigating them? Why don't you at least name them? And who are these employees in all branches of the government involved in corruption schemes? Why is the Bulgarian Prime Minister silent? There is one law, the law of omerta. This law is undoubtedly observed in Bulgaria. This is the law of the mafia, this is the law of silence, but the Bulgarian has a point of tolerance, and I believe that we have already reached it. Turning it into territory without a perspective for us Bulgarians will not pass. But pazaran, Mr. Borisov! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. Replies to Mrs. Yoncheva's statement? I don't see any lines. Mr. Dobrev has made a statement. Then Minister Nankov, Minister of Regional Development, then Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u152	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Yoncheva! You've been throwing skunks at me for months. For months! I don't know what your fixation is, right on top of me. My colleagues are asking me, and I can't answer them. I will not comment on all the nonsense you have spoken because with documents on the national air I have shown that the companies you are referring to have won more orders with your Mayor of Smolyan [[Applause from GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u153	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u154	And also that in Haskovo Municipality these companies that you are referring to have lost more orders than they have won, including the largest in 20 million. BGN, for collection and shipping. I will not go into these details because I want to use the time that I have to ask you a few questions again to see if you will answer again with.......................................................................... My first question to you is: Do you have a company that is partner 50/50% with an offshore company [[(Comments from GERB: ……]] Fifty-fifty. Here's the document from the Trade Register. The same company, according to the decision, the total capital of the company is 10,000. BGN, however, see what happens. Of that 10,000. lv. Mrs. Yoncheva's company, On the other hand, the offshore company "Day trading limited" undertakes against the same 50 shares to import, notice, 315 thousand. lv.! [[Replys from "BSP for Bulgaria"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u155	These are specifics that Mr. Dobrev reported. Whoever has the specifics, let him stand and speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u156	These are specific data that we want to respond to. Where'd you get the 315 grand? lv. And for what are they given in this joint firm of yours? From there on the next page in this same document in a decision for the establishment of the company is written: After the establishment and entry of the company in question, the company I am talking about. 134 and the next of the Commercial Law to make an additional cash contribution of 250 thousand. Euros. [[(Comments from GERB: ……]] Three hundred and thirty-five thousand, then two hundred and fifty-five thousand. Euros! If you're wondering which accounts this money has entered, I'm going to show you a certificate. [[Voices from GERB "Ohoo!" and "Oo!"]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u157	Is that government money? Is that municipal money?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u158	... where an author's TV station to Mrs. Yoncheva has made a wire transfer of 5,000 thousand. BGN, a, on the other hand, a foreign exchange transfer of 161 thousand. Euros, 161 thousand. EUR with the equivalent of the fixing of BNB - 315 084,21 BGN by "Delivery trading limited." It gets even more interesting. What's interesting is who's behind this offshore? Because the offshore girl has two nominated directors. Behind the offshore, according to the power of attorney, Zornitsa Plamenova Bluskova is an authorized person. If you search the Internet for information about the person Zornitsa Plamenova Bluskova, you will see that this person is a partner with Georgi Slavchev Georgiev in a very interesting company. The company is called "Investment Project" AD. [[Voices from GERB: "Ohoo! "]] The same company is in all the reports on the draining of KTB. That's the same firm! [[Applause and cheering by GERB.]] Credits of the Investment Project as of 2013 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 Thirty-two thousand. BGN 59. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Ohoo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] As of 2014, he was responsible for the violent repression of 163 thousand. BGN 419. [[(GERB's reply: A, did he go to KTB?]] As of 16 February 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and 656 thousand. 182 euros! [[(Comments from GERB: Euros?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Nearly 70 million. lv. Euros! What do the auditors say, including Alix partners, about the company's investment project? The Alix partners' report found that it was a company through which funds from CCB loans were directed. "Investment projects" seems to be a funding channel, not reporting operating revenues and reporting only other current assets and overdue debt. Its assets appear only claims received from transfers to related ones, and it is unlikely that they will be recovered... is indicated in the international audit report of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] You've known Tsvetan Vassilev only since the award of the Banker of the Year. I promised you at one of our press conferences that you wouldn't... [[Shouts: "Eee!" and lines from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": This has nothing to do with it!", comments from GERB: "How can there not be?"]] ...I deal with your family and I really will not deal with your family, otherwise it will be very easy for me to prove the connection between you and Mr. Tsvetan Vassilev, so I will continue only with you. I won't deal with your cousins, mothers, fathers, grandfathers, grandmothers, Kalekovs, aunts and so on. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] Like you do to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u159	What do you want? Tsveta, step in!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u160	Only with you! There's a list, there's a list! [[Strength noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u161	Mr. Stoynev! Mr. Stoinev, specific data is being released. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you have such data, take it out! Please! I have been patient with the speech made by Mrs. Yoncheva. Please sit down! Please, Mr. Stoinev! Please, Mr. Stoinev, this is a statement from the MP Delyan Dobrev. Please, colleagues, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u162	It's got nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u163	Mr. Tsvetanov, please! Mr. Stoynev, please! Please, Mr. Dobrev, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u164	On another subject, as I see that Mr. Stoinev is very irritated and I remain this topic and I start another. [[Radio, laughter at GERB.]] Mrs. Yoncheva, you 2005 - 2009 have you received nearly 700 thousand? lv. From companies? [[Voices from GERB: "Ohoo! "]] Including the largest amounts are from state-owned companies. [[Voices from GERB: "Ohoo! "]] For example, from Lukoil, where the state has a gold share, have you received BGN 126 949,17.?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u165	So, is this corruption? Is that corruption?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u166	From EON, where the state has 33%, have you received 69 811,33 BGN.? At the time, did you and Mr. Stanishev live in the family, was he your friend, or was he not? Did he act on these companies to give you this money, or did he not influence the 700 thousand? lv. 696 172,70 BGN? And lastly, in order not to bore my colleagues, I think that it has become clear to everyone what it is about, I am not dealing with your relatives, you yourself, Mrs. Yoncheva, have you been to KTB? You know, there's a list. [[shows xerocopy]] where other colleagues of yours found themselves, like Mr. Kiril Dobrev? You're on that list six times? [[(Applause and cheering by GERB: A, bravo, bravo!]] As only one of your visits is on TV7. [[Shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only one of your visits is on TV7! [[The speech of the speaker continues with calls, noises and lines from the BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] Finally, when Stanishev was Prime Minister, you were his companion in life, leading journalist at the time, or at least you were acting like one, why didn't you ask once about Brother and Brother? About Brother and Brother, why didn't you ask once? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the case of which you speak to Haskovo, I am neither a contracting entity nor a related person with these companies. And there it was very clear what was going on. And without referring to you, at the end I'll say I'm referring actually to colleagues on the left, you're getting it: the Thief is yelling: Hold the thief! [[(Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you are, Mrs. Yoncheva, a personal explanation. I take it there's no lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u168	They have no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u169	There are no lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u170	My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to say that I have never, ever used any state or municipal funds, nor have I been involved in any state or municipal business. I would like to say that as a journalist and author of documentaries, I have always conducted proper accounting and paid taxes. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]] If there's something wrong, something illegal, even a suspicion of something wrong or illegal, not only please, but I insist that a signal be submitted to the D.A. or to the relevant authorities. [[(Loud noise and lines. A line from GERB: "We are yet to come!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u171	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u172	If there is even doubt that I have been involved in any corruption practices, I also ask you to submit a signal to the relevant authorities! Regarding Mr. Dobrev...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u173	Personal explanation to me, Mrs. Yoncheva! [[Shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm sorry. It's a personal explanation! Excuse me! Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u174	We are addressing Mr. Dobrev and we have brought the signal to the Prosecutor's Office because, as Minister of Economy and Energy, his family has received an outstanding loan of 2 million. lv. [[Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Woo!"]] This outstanding loan was taken by his brother-in-law's company, respectively by an offshore company. Mr. Dobrev says he was borrowing from offshore companies and his parents through his brother-in-law's company.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u175	It's a personal explanation!?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u176	It's a personal explanation, yes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u177	And something that I think colleagues should know about loans from offshore companies is often a way to return funds to Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u179	...but now it's like clean money. Why? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u180	It's been two minutes, Mr. Stoinev?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u181	The loan after the fifth year is not due. He may not come back. [[Heckling]] That's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u182	The weather, Mrs. Yoncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u183	That's why we brought into the D.A.'s office and this case as well...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u184	The weather, Mrs. Yoncheva! Thank you. [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Thank you, thank you, the weather! There was a personal explanation from Mrs. Yankova, then a personal explanation from Mr. Dobrev. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . Here you are, Mrs. Yankova! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Shall I give to Mrs. Yankova? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u185	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u186	Here you go. It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u187	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u188	And you retreat in the manner of conduct. The way you're holding it, Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u189	Honourable President, Vice Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, if you have accidentally forgotten, I assume you are looking at the agenda of our meeting, which you have personally called overtime and should know what this is about. In all the speeches here, which were so far, in some form perhaps veiled, perhaps a little talked about real corruption and the failure of the government of Boyko Borisov in the fight against corruption. However, a statement by Mr. Dobrev, who was here, perhaps I do not know if he really believes that this is corruption, Mr. Dobrev, you are proving that this government is not really dealing with this struggle! That's what you're doing right now with this data that you're exporting, and no one has taken any measure so far!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u190	Not to Mr. Dobrev, but to me, Mr. Ermenkov that it is in the way of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u191	No, I'm addressing you, Madam President, because let's be serious. Let us hear in this debate if there are corrupt practices that are related to municipal and public funds, which is corruption and which is the work of the government on the high floors! Let's talk about failures or success! Tell me, for example, Madam President, or pay attention to the government to give an example of how many corrupt practices they have dealt with so far? What victories do they have in this fight so they can stand with their face here and accuse us of being populists? Please! Once again, I want you to pay attention to when someone here stands on this stand to speak, to stick to the subject, not to speak in common! Because basically here, any one of us can say something about someone else, then the other one can happen and with the right to defend himself. But this will have nothing to do with the subject we are discussing. That is why I am making you a real suggestion if you can, stick to the agenda and make this meeting normal! You forgot to call the coward to come here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u193	...but at least be... [[(The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u194	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Dobrev you also had a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u195	There was a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u196	No, let's finish the procedure in the manner of conduct, since we started this procedure, and then we will let Mrs. Yankova go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u197	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the way of conduct, because Mrs. Yoncheva is for the first time a Member of the National Assembly in a procedure of personal explanation, where she had to defend herself and respond to some of the attacks, to name them, or to some of the truths that I said, you allow her to attack me again with the same tintiri-mintiri that we have been listening to here for six months. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Mrs. Dora Yankova, since I saw that she wanted a personal explanation, I didn't say anything wrong. If she misunderstands me, I apologize. But I've got the contracts. One of them's worth $10 million. BGN, and the other one for 7 million. BGN, and I can give it to her to remember them. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u198	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u199	Madam President, Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Mr. Dobrev, this is the fifth time you've mentioned my name and I can't understand the occasion for fixing, but right now I don't have these two contracts. It was interesting, they're in Smolyan municipality. You can give me a copy, I'd appreciate it. It was interesting that you showed them on TV as well. [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev is approaching the stands and submitting documents to the National Representative Dora Yankova.]] Thank you! In 2006, I chose the company you are arguing about to build Smolyan's regional waste depot for the municipalities of Smolyan, Chepelare and Banite. The first order is about 9 million. lv. $800,000. BGN, second order for about 6 million lv. In the five years I've been mayor, about 12 million. lv. are paid by the Regional Projects Fund of the Ministry of Finance. When visiting the first government of Borisov, your Deputy Minister and Minister in Smolyan say that this is Smolyan's most modern depot! I would like to share with you now, after 2011, it continued to be built and the depot itself was adopted a year ago. Since you said that most orders were won by Smolyan Municipality, according to local newspaper 32 million. $700,000. BGN, the company in question received for construction. That is, until 2011 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of $700,000. lv. [[the President signals that time has run out]] For streets, for municipal roads, for buildings. And if you want to talk about what is reprehensible or not, there is a debate in the municipality right now, between municipal councillors and local media. [[the President signals that time has run out]] for the contract with the company from Madan, which is, I would not like to engage you in this way, for the delivery of 700 tonnes of volumes for the Visor of Zlatka and Alexander Dobrevy,...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u200	Mrs. Yankova, time has come. [[Noise and lines.]] Time has come!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u201	...that are worth 406...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u203	It may not be reproachable, but let me tell you, when we talk, you get annoyed, let's talk about things the way they are. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u204	Time's up! You're already one minute above time. [[Shouts from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u205	Speaking things like truths and not trying to involve people in certain discussions. Yes, you don't say anything bad against me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u207	You're talking right now... [[The speaker's talking on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u208	Thank you, thank you! You've been talking for three minutes now! Thank you, thank you. [[Relations of MP Delyan Dobrev.]] The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works wants the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. I see there's some misunderstanding. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Rather, there is a misunderstanding between the two colleagues what exactly did Mr. Dobrev mean, so [[Shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I allow myself to give him a personal explanation. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, please! I've always been tolerant of everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u209	Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u210	Let's hear what Mr. Dobrev has to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u211	Madam President, I'm giving up to keep my colleagues on the left. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u212	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The word is made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! I will come up with a little bit of the Haskovo theme on the Energy Efficiency Programme, as once again I have touched on, by the way, the theme with, you see, the great corruption that has taken on this perhaps the most social, economically most effective for the whole society The Programme will say what I mean about this environmentally effective, ever realized in Bulgaria in the last 28-29 years. But I might start from there that by quoting a mantra, you know, not to say exactly who I quote that a lie repeated a hundred times may sound to us as a truth, to various debates, both from this high tribune, and at expert level, and in the public domain, condemning the program with such manipulative ones, and I will say why they are manipulative, really vowing perhaps to not so optimistic its future long-term continuation. However, I thank these colleagues on the left, who in these three years have seen and succeeded in both public appearances and from this high tribune, to appreciate its benefits, its effect, the effect for Bulgarian citizens and in recent months we have heard even from you, colleagues on the left, really expert opinions on its future continuation. At the very beginning you scared with shadows from the closets Bulgarian citizens, owners of apartments in the panel blocks. It wasn't going to take their apartments, it wasn't going to raise their taxes five, six, ten times I will say where public opinion is manipulated: perhaps all Bulgarian citizens, when we comment on really some of its, not to say, weaknesses, perhaps in poorly explained back in time models and functioning mechanisms. The fact is that we have learnt a lot of lessons from what you are talking about, and from the fact that the Programme is new as a concept, inherited, of course, a European one, which you have speculated again about, I will explain why there is a difference in prices, but the Programme is really optimizing in its four years so far in the implementation process, both as control mechanisms and as prices. You mentioned first and foremost the subject of the concentration of public procurement and the concentration of certain companies in a given district city, or you have criticised many times the program for concentration of public procurement companies in specific legal entities throughout the country, which is totally mythologiem, a fact that does not rest on any evidence. Currently completed or under construction 1517 buildings, and the builders companies are 967? Greater diversification of the construction industry in such a public program, health tell him! Separately we have over 200 technical research companies, 260 for construction supervision, and almost all supervisory companies in Bulgaria, registered at the DNCC, DNCC issues the licenses, participates in the Program, as well as design offices, and design companies over 220 under the Programme, so that this thesis really, really, has good experts in your group, please, not knowing the matter, do not develop it. The second speculative thesis I will be really brief and with it I will finish the thesis on prices. The thesis with the huge price differences. And do you remember, without any desire to politicize the process, a public investment programme called Sustainable Development of Regions For half a billion leva! We all remember which cabinet it is realized in, how in a few weeks, without any criteria and rules, gave out in the literal sense of the word, the literal.... without any criteria, the methodology of project evaluation and not to list any other factors, half a billion leva without any indicative, maximum, reference prices, or as we want to call them. No price whatsoever! The same playgrounds and sports sites as quantitative-value accounts, as the complexity of execution in one settlement cost 80, according to the KSF not more than 20, and in another cost 180 thousand. lv. according to your program, swimming pools in settlements with 60-70 people. And then the same you claimed that the market sets and forms prices. Such a principled approach was set by us when we started the Programme, and it was in the market that the executive companies compete after the two audits were prepared, which gave the necessary indicative value to the building. Fluctuations in prices between counterparties were not available. There was no more than 15-20%, i.e. at an initial price of 270-280 BGN, the prices did not fall when the auctions took place more than 230-240 BGN, the lowest prices. However, we should note that these prices enabled n activities to be carried out in these buildings, in times more than the European programme, which you quoted, in which only elementary renovation activities were carried out, replacement of windows and thermal insulation. Here we talked about the full range of energy-efficient measures with replacement of installations, even with solar panels for hot water, with change of strenghts from vertical to horizontal, reduction of the accounts of Bulgarian citizens, constructive audits, not to list all eligible activities, which initially with these high prices, were really high, were eligible and Bulgarian municipalities took advantage of them. Second speculation on the topic "Prices." We commented on two blocks in Elenovo, reading the reasons in the vote, adjacent blocks with almost the same square footage of 3,000. 800 sq. m. This is, colleagues, it's like comparing the repair of two cars of the same brand, from the same year, let's say two Moscows from 1980, and for example me or one of you, owning such cars, I only change the tires of the car, you buy tires and radiators, replace your engine and windshields, front and rear windows. It is normal that the price of your repairs is higher than the price of repairing my Moskovitch. When in a building you think it is so square meters, the other is almost the same square, you have to realize that the building is a living organism. In the process of their 40-50 years of operation, it is normal that they are carried out in one more and in another less energy efficiency measures. That is, air conditioners are placed in one, new windows are installed, people have individually done it back in time, not as we are currently solving the overall problems of these buildings, and it is normal to have fluctuations in prices of 30-40% on the basis of and more activities in one building compared to the other building. And it really sounds insulting, you claim that GERB, the government is corrupt. It sounds insulting to 200 mayors who participate in the program from all parliamentary groups to say that they are corrupt. It sounds insulting to over 100,000 workers - builders, designers, suppliers of materials, manufacturers of materials, supervisors, consultants - they are also corrupt. Well, let's get builders and designers from abroad, mayors from abroad and solve the problem that really exists only in your heads! Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry I talked so long. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, any other speeches? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I know you have a statement. I'd just like to... A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Nenkov, I have only a few questions for you. My first is: why did the Court of Auditors put the sanitization itself in the D.A.'s office, and how would you respond to that? And I will give you an example with two municipalities: in Velingrad municipality they sanitize to BGN 360. of sq. m. and in the municipality of Bratsigovo sanitate at 340 BGN. of sq. m. Aren't these prices that are in times higher, prices with which you can safely build a new structure? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u216	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Mr. Minister, I know it's not parliamentary control. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am beginning with the fact that the Court of Auditors has carried out an inspection and its conclusions are publicly available, publicly known. The D.A.'s office is checking in. With all my conviction, without commenting in any way, I have even avoided commenting on the work of the independent judiciary, I am convinced that in a very short time we will have results of the verification and they will not be in your favor and in the statement that you have stated at the moment, as the Programme is functioning and its financial mechanisms in an identical way with the financial mechanisms, with the financial mechanisms, I do not comment on the control mechanisms, as all operational programmes funded by the ESI Funds. Without commenting on the expertise, focus and other trends in the verification, if such archin and similar approach in the Court of Auditors enters a managing body, all operational programmes must suffer from the same vices and deficits and the model of their financial management has already been set up in 2005. Apart from you, you obviously didn't listen to me when I was comparing, and I don't know why I had to deal with it, maybe for objective reasons, and I gave a figurative, visual example of why there are differences and fluctuations in prices. Because in a municipality like Velingrad, you quoted, and I can also point to other such municipalities, separate buildings are renovated at 300 BGN. of sq. Speculation was, by the way, that for this value you can build a new building per square meter, speculation! There are fellow builders from you, by the way, who are also involved in the Sanitation Program directly, personally, they are again from Haskovo, by the way. So in this case, I really should have explained it in more detail, but I wanted to be brief enough: when we have five times more activities in one building from another, in one building we make the mayor as a contracting entity and there is only regular renovation, replacement of windows and thermal insulation. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] This proves the energy audit, as in the building with these measures there will be an energy class to be reached, Mr. Stoynev, as is the minimum requirement for some buildings, yes! Even these minimum measures, which reach the energy class of the survey, in some of the buildings in which this renovation is carried out, as you call it, results in energy savings and savings of up to 45 In other buildings, other than structural reinforcements for the extension of the life of buildings and their operating period, a number of others are also being carried out. I mentioned some of these activities: replacement of installation, plumbing, repair of stairwell cells. We also have colleagues from you who have also participated in the Programme as target beneficiaries in this as well as in the previous, European, with the corresponding criticism of them. That is why we have listened to them when there is an expert level of compliance and criticism of implementation in order to improve the mechanisms of control. But all this speculation seems to be true with some of you colleagues, there is a misunderstanding, perhaps we are guilty, because we do not explain well enough, but specifically about the prices, the reasoning and the manipulative statements you are making are not responding in any way to objective reality and the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev. Personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the problem is that on solid blocks roofs flow and people complain. Look, this isn't a sanitization, it's a thermal insulation. And the biggest thing is what you're explaining to us is that it's being paid on the basis of the P.R.S., not on this sanitized area...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u220	Mr. Stoinev, don't abuse the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u221	... So if it's 100 squares, I'm giving an example, for a sanitization, it's paid at 1,000 squares. That's where the theft and corruption is, and that's what you need to know! The second is: one billion of MRB stands on BNB's account...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u222	Mr. Stoynev, you're abusing the rules! Mr. Stoynev, please don't abuse the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u223	... And make the Bulgarian Development Bank withdraw external funding and pay interest! Right here, too... [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u224	Please, Mr. Stoinev, you are abusing the Rules right now! Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u225	Mr. Chairman, you have disabled Mr. Stoinev's microphone! Mr. Stoinev precisely why he explained he disagreed with the address to him, which he was, and that he speculated. And he explained exactly why we didn't speculate with specific numbers, with concrete examples and with what Mr. Minister allowed himself to speculate. So, I'm asking you very much, when someone comes out of here on the stand, carefully monitor why he went out, what he said, and in this case, find out that Mr. Stoinev was concerned that he had speculated, explained why he hadn't speculated. I don't see why you took the floor away from him, except that you didn't like the numbers, you didn't like the example, you didn't like the fact that there was corruption in this program and it was crazy. Of that $2 billion, if at least $500 million went to replant, it'd still be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u226	Thank you. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! I was forced to take this procedure the way it was handled. I wanted to make this proposal from the beginning. Mr President, in the form of a procedure in the manner in which this debate is conducted, any such, including a personal explanation under the procedure, instead of explaining what the person is affected, a counterattack or an attempt to respond shall be made. I ask the following: as it is abused by art. 58, para. 3, p. 3, that is to say, with no time for the procedure in the manner of conduct, I ask from now on that we make a decision and that all statements in the manner of conduct which are disguised statements on the substance should be taken into account. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u228	Please, guys! Let's be civil.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u229	Because it violates the meaning of the Rules. It violates the meaning of time distribution. Thus, those of us who are more eloquent and more talkative use the procedure of conduct to express their opinions and opinions without complying with the Rules, without the one being attacked, to have the opportunity to respond. This is the meaning of the "Equalness" in the debate. And please, from now on, or radically restrict the procedure in the manner of conduct, or this time get into the calculation of each of the groups. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, you've done 17 procedures in the manner of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u230	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You are right that colleagues deviate and very often use the right to personal explanation and procedure. I'll bear in mind your remark. I suggest we really give the floor to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister now. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Donchev, honourable fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, I was finally waiting for you to give me the floor. Thank you! I thought about not being involved in today's debates, because I think it doesn't make any sense to me. But I can't help but take attitude when it comes to something I've been dealing with for almost two years and I've lost a lot of time, nerves and effort. It's about the fence. This is the reason why I stood on this platform, the impoverishment facility with the Republic of Turkey. Because again here, from the stands of the National Assembly, in front of the cameras and microphones of the sites and radios, a series of false statements are uttered. Firstly, it was said that the facility was poor, quoting some report by the Inspectorate during the caretaker government, which was not confirmed in any way! And at present, the protective barrier is of much higher quality and sustainability than those built in other countries of the European Union. Those who do not believe can check: Hungary, Serbia, Macedonia. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We'll talk about Greece, too. I'm not jumping over it. But one such claim once again defamed, defamed the labor and efforts not only of the companies that did it, but also of the people who were responsible for it, including regional governors, including representatives of ministries, specialists and so on. The second false statement was that even before winter, the fence began to fall. The fence didn't start falling just like it did, as it suggested, the fence fell in pouring precipitation, and only in those places where there was no barrier force to stop the floods formed as a result of precipitation of 315 liters per square meter. By comparison, the highways were taken to Baden-Baden two years earlier in precipitation of 170 liters per square meter! They sent pictures and I published this photo. I tried all these arguments in good faith to present them to the author of these statements, both in the media and in this Chamber. It also does not correspond to the truth that our fence was more expensive than that of Greece. Let's add: when mentioning and specifying the price of the fence between Greece and Turkey, that it is not included in this price, the adjoining path is not included. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is very expensive, especially when it is carried out in a heavily cut terrain, which unfortunately, colleagues who are currently replicating do not seem to know this terrain. I can invite you and show it to you! However, we are talking about a price by source from your party of 500 BGN. between Greece and Turkey. Our fence is even cheaper when the road is pulled out. In addition, it was made, as I said, for the most part in the cut-off terrain of 120 km are in the territory of Burgas region. Let's go. To all these lies that have been told here, by this responsible place, I will also allow myself to recall a number of other lies that have been told in the media, and also in some material that strangely was called the Documentary film. There was absolutely false facts, both in terms of the value of building the fence, the value of a linear meter and the total length of the fence. You've never learned these figures. It's four digits. You could have collected this information and correctly quoted it. Also, in the past few months, it has come to this, I would say, a humiliating act by a person who calls himself a journalist to show a picture two years earlier with spilled trees and to say that this photo is from the end of November. And in the picture there was a bridge on which half the fence was built, the other half was not built. Of course it's not because the photo was taken in 2015, when this fence was built. Now, on the main charge of single-order and two-order: as I am in the course of designing and redesigning the fence, I have almost monthly been present both on the ground and at the operatives at the Ministry of Interior, I can remind you that in fact the decision to move from two-row to one-line was dictated by the huge refugee and emigrant influx along our border with Turkey. For 2015 only I recall the official data from the Ministry of Interior, which was returned to me not missed in Bulgaria, but returned to us, more than 88 thousand people. How long it's been is another question when there's no fence. This dictated the emergency redesign and it was not made the hidushka to absorb any money, or to commit some fraud, and it was done because it urgently had to block the road of this avalanche. And I'm proud we made it! [[Applause from GERB.]] That's why she's two-rowed to a single-row. By the way, President Radev took the liberty of making such a statement at the beginning, and then he stopped talking about it simply because everything is documented and everything has been done in accordance with legal requirements. I don't know why the author of all these claims didn't make the simplest: to ask the report of ADFI (Agency of the State Financial Inspection) I can tell you what they've found: they've found five violations of five companies. And I wonder if I should tell you what they are? You could have checked them yourself. And do you know what these five violations are? They're all just due to overdue deadlines! There is not one meter of space from the fence where a smaller amount of concrete is found, less iron, a changed project of the fence because it is being built on several different projects, depending on the places of construction, and so on. There is no such finding on ADPI! If you don't trust me, at least trust the state institutions. That's all I can say. The report is available, you can have it back. So much for journalistic morality and journalistic ethics! If this is about journalism at all, but I think it's been a long time since it's about any journalism, but it's about a rather ridiculous propaganda campaign. And do you know when I realized it, Mrs. Nino? I understood it when I personally organized a tour of the fence by helicopter. I called you personally, and I invited you.. I also mentioned that you could take Mrs. Yoncheva, who was showing some activity at that time, but not aggressive activity, was just interested. You didn't come! I've divorced all the people who wanted to come from Svilengrad to Rezovo, I think there are such people in this one. Only then can you see the scale of this facility. Only then can you appreciate the true value of the work of these people, who in many places to drive concrete to the foundations of the pillars, dragged in sacks on their backs on a 60 degree slope down. Why don't you come and see how this thing is made? And why, when you go to take pictures of the places you've been knocked down...? There were places to be broken down, and there will be places to be. There's nothing to bar this element in these steep ravines in Strandja. But why didn't you say, for example, the fact that where there was a fence being knocked down, there were double posts 24 hours? There's one more place where there's no fence, and I'm not gonna tell you what it is! [[Applause from GERB.]] But there are still 24-hour posts there. People are doing their jobs, and I can tell you that they are not politically biased, and even worse at what you say about them. They're doing their job. At least out of respect for them, stop these manipulations. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] I said why it's one-line, if you haven't figured it out, I won't answer you 20 times!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u232	Mr. Stoynev, please don't challenge me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u233	Now that I've taken the floor and I'm standing here, I have no intention of taking the floor a second time. He will now respond to the accusations of other speakers and speakers from the stands. I was accused that I had forgotten my own speeches and asked for an answer from me. Yes, I will give you an answer: I have released between four and six signals in the field of tourism for illegal constructions, for violations. I'm not prepared to tell you exactly how many they are, but I can tell you about which objects and what it is about. Yeah, I've been signaling. I can also tell you that at the same time when you were mocking and continuing to make fun of the reactions to noise, however, our actions are talking to the cabinet, and they were able to produce some positive effect. At least I think so. Maybe I'm kidding myself. I don't know. You'll be the judge of that. But at the same time, when it comes to corruption, I can inform you that I have filed two signals of corruption in the privatisation of BMF, against corrupt Burgas judges, illegal sites and constructions on the Black Sea coast, which I have already mentioned. I have reported corruption on the territory of the TPP Maritsa East 2 (in Bulgarian) to the Prosecutor's Office (in Bulgarian) in connection with my noise checks, and I have also issued signals against the solo performer from your chalga group, called the group of. I've been sending signals against her, too. [[Applause from GERB.]] Yes, the corruption you are now talking about, which you are fighting in this House, in these two hours you have a cause for corruption. Nobody's gonna deny that. There's been corruption, make sure there's corruption. Corruption is from the United States to Sweden, and to Tunisia and everywhere. The question is what are the scales and what are the actions of the country's leadership against this corruption? I've given you examples as Deputy Prime Minister what signals I've made. You personally, Mrs. Ninova, how many signals have you issued for corruption at the D.A.'s office? [[Relations from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Maybe you let go. If you have this opportunity and desire, you can answer this question. I told you how much I let in. Because corruption is something we all have to fight against. And here we are united with my colleagues from the Council of Ministers. It is ridiculous and quite infantile what you do with this vote: to talk about corruption in general, to talk to the Abba about corruption. Give concrete facts, so you couldn't prepare this vote! What is happening right now is a disgrace to both politics and the National Assembly. It takes a vote that makes up the arguments ten days before that. [[Applause.]] I would like to respond here to another statement, from another parliamentary group, to one gentleman. Is he here? Is that where you came from, discussing a no-confidence vote to get to the nationalist trinkets that were sold on the Black Sea? Is that where you fell? You have no argument at all. Dear you, dear you! At least they tried to copy something from the media, and you didn't! [[DPS lines.]] What are you talking about? For human trafficking? That there was an NFSB activist? Yeah, I'll answer that. That's right, yeah! However, I would like to tell you that the People's Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria is more than 1100 organizations in the country, and I cannot guarantee you that tomorrow no one else is going to run over the onions. [[Heckling]] But, of course, these are isolated cases, and, of course, we are extremely far from the rich experience and demonstration of corruption that you have done so far with your involvement in politics. Why did you forget Hristo Biserov? Where did Bat Sally go? What happened to Thomas Tomov, what was he like, remind me? [[Replys from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Oh, there's BSP too! [[Noise and lines.]] You're quiet about this, aren't you? [[Noise and lines.]] And at least you can give an assessment of a political power that has assumed responsibility to participate in government and against which you cannot produce any fact, a word about corruption or abuse, because it is alien to you as a mentality. Unfortunately, I see that this is foreign in the mentality and thinking of BSP as well. Whenever it comes to management, there are some deals in your heads, some schemes, some money, some abuse. Can you even assume that there are people that these things don't apply to? You can't let that happen. [[Applause]] It's hard, isn't it, but it's a fact?! [[Applause.]] Finally, it is you who have at least the right to give assessments because you, who call us nationalists, who are nationalist populists and who still do not know what, it would be better to be more moderate in front of your European colleagues, because we will remind them who was the party that built a fountain in memory of terrorists who put bombs in a car for mothers with children in Bunovo. We will also remind them who were the ones who promoted and cried that Bulgaria's road to Europe was going to Istanbul. We'll remind them of these hoops from companies that your leader unpardonably and brutally announced on the air of a television station.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u234	Mr. Simeonov! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u235	So take it easy. Let's be a little more restrained, at least until after the presidency, and then we'll settle the score. [[Noise and shout in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u236	Please, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Voices from DPS: "Woo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u237	Did you say something about Zlatograd? [[DPS lines.]] I didn't hear. For Zlatograd? Yeah, tell me exactly what you mean. I have two convicts for this lie. You could be the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u238	Thank you. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u239	The vote is false, the vote is pathetic, the vote is humiliating not only for politics in Bulgaria, humiliating for both viewers and people. [[Heckling]] This is a very strong tool that should be used in good preparation and with a measure. Thank you, I had a recommendation here to free myself from fear. What kind of fear am I to be free of? You summoned from your chair, Mrs. Ninova. I know you're going to take a personal opinion about this, and it's okay to talk to us about getting rid of fear?! What fear do we free ourselves from? Me or us are afraid of Boyko Borisov, our colleagues?! What are we afraid of, the goons? What are we afraid of? It is better for you to be rid of fear, fear of losing your political rating. Because what you are doing right now is another pig's tail, with which you are destroying everything healthy in BSP and instead of a Bulgarian Teresa May, you are becoming a political Anita Maiser. [[Applause, noise and laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u240	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. It's the way it's supposed to be. It's a personal explanation. [[Noise and discontent in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! I turn to you in the manner of conduct, Mr. President, because in addition to all of us present in this House, and you bear the greatest responsibility for what is happening. I would like to remind you that we are discussing a motion for mistrust of Mr. Borisov's number three government for failure to fight corruption. You allow another statement, which is trying to turn this vote from talking about the failure of the fight against corruption to attack Mrs. Elena Yoncheva personally. I claim that what is happening in this room is highly incorrect. I see you've prepared yourself well on this subject. I want to tell you that this does not honor you. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and let the speeches from now on really come to light and comment on the vote we have given.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u242	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Once again in the manner of holding Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Simeonov, we respect all the arguments, but from this platform to give personal qualifications and impressions of the political activity of the leaders of the opposition is not the best option to shine before your own voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u244	Mr. Jablyanov, turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u245	I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, you leave Mr. Simeonov in his typical expressive style to distribute qualifications that seem only to him faithful. This contradicted the Rules and had the opportunity to impose on him several types of punishment which he deserved. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Mr. Kirilov said that the Deputy Prime Minister could not be punished, and the whole debate became clear the fear of someone admitting that the government of Bulgaria failed in the fight against corruption and was born in the most banal qualifications with regard to the leaders of the opposition. The qualities of the leaders of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will judge the Bulgarian voters, and Mr. Simeonov's party can hardly be found with a microscope! [[Replys and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u246	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Applause.]] The way you're running things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I apologize, but if one of the fellow MPs had made such definitions, he would have been expelled immediately, and probably justly. [[GERB lines.]] What do we do when he's deputy prime minister?! Someone's calling from behind from the nameless ones. Come here so we can see you, we don't know you, show yourself. Colleagues from GERB, don't, you will leave the parliament before we learn your names. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u248	To me, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u249	Don't call back, come to the stands. When he does prime minister, what do we do? Someone called there again. Ma'am, I don't know you, I'm sorry, come tell me your name. I don't know you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u250	Mr. Kutev, turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u251	What do we do when all the rules of the National Assembly are violated by the Deputy Prime Minister? You are currently acting as President of the National Assembly. For the second time today I have to mention that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. If you are helpless before one person insults the people's representative in an absolutely acceptable moral and other way, then you have no place here: either he or you?! Which one's leaving? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u252	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. [[Applause.]] Mr. Glauchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u253	By the way, it's not a personal explanation. I find it uncomfortable, Mr. Chairman, that you should remind colleagues that the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly apply only to Members of the National Assembly. I think they should be aware, since they're in parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] There is no way he can impose punishment on members of the Council of Ministers. Explain it once and for all!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u254	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. [[Applause.]] Again, in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Perhaps you can't evict and punish the Deputy Prime Minister, but you can make remarks to him while he's talking. Because in addition to this cynical insult to the head of a parliamentary group and to an entire party, the biggest of the opposition, the mentoring tone to which he spoke, I will use his tone: this misunderstanding, with a mentoring tone, addresses a party that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u256	Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u257	...there is merit for peace in Bulgaria, which has merit for democracy, which has merit for our European and NATO membership! This will not be allowed because you are really a misunderstanding! [[Applause, lines and screams.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u258	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev, but you have also broken the Rules. A way to conduct, a personal explanation? In the manner of conduct, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u259	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers and Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, it is 16.30 am close, whether the Prime Minister has already been released from important international meetings and to renew the invitation to him to come to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u260	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u261	At least in the finals, let's get some attitude on the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u262	If you're gonna talk the way you're supposed to talk, you're gonna have to talk to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u263	Yeah, to you, but I'm not gonna address you because they're making a point. I'd like to invite the Prime Minister back, at least to hear the closing...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u264	This has nothing to do with my leadership at the moment, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u265	There is, of course. If you want, I can invite him, but I don't have his phone number. You can give it to me, I'll invite him if you want. If you want to have a dialogue from the stands: I.. to the MPs, you.. behind my back too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u266	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u267	I'm not gonna turn around because it's customary to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u268	Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u269	Let me tell my story.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u270	Tell it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u271	I say it to you: Mr. Chairman, it is 16.30 am, please invite the Prime Minister again, if he has run out of important international meetings, to order the National Assembly at least for the closing words on the corruption of this government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u272	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u273	And if the important international meetings haven't grown into evenings, let's order them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u274	I understand. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] For information, the Prime Minister is currently talking to Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev about the work on transport infrastructure. [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] There are many criticisms in the manner of conduct. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, first, a personal explanation from Mrs. Yoncheva, then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u275	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Valeri Simeonov left the room, but I would like to ask if it is true everything he says about an engineering obstruction facility, why is the Prosecutor's Office currently investigating the corruption practice in building the border after our signal and the documents we submitted to the Prosecutor's Office? Why was the single-line fence not made under the project of the Ministry of Interior such a project had, but was given an opportunity to the district managers to assign to selected companies and to make projects? [[Noise and lines. Chairman Emil Hristov spoke with MP Elena Yoncheva with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u276	Are you personally affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u277	I'm personally offended, and I want the personal explanation. Thanks for the reminder. You say that the fence was in a hurry because of the increased refugee flow, and for that reason you made a single row instead of a double row. I ask: couldn't you include more builders to do something that actually makes sense and performs its obstruction function? You say the fence is falling due to unusually strong precipitation. That's what you say. It falls due to unusually increased corruption. This is indeed a disaster, and the results of this disaster are yet to be seen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Mrs. Ninova, you wanted the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u279	There can be no personal explanation on the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u280	Just please, really let it be a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u281	You're right. It's not the Deputy Prime Minister's place to do it. The Prime Minister is the place to act, but he's gone, the coward. [[Strong noise and shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u282	Mrs. Ninova, please, I just asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u283	Regarding Mr. Simeonov. Really unacceptable language and gross insults, not to me personally. But there is a good thought, Mr. Simeonov: "You shouldn't be offended when a smart person speaks, and when he talks stupid, why should you be offended at all? "
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u284	What did you get offended with?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u285	I take that word not to justify myself and to give personal explanations, but to protect Elena Yoncheva. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] And to tell you the truth...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u286	Mrs. Ninova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u287	...that you justified my thesis at the beginning of the speech. When someone points to corruption, the whole system of manipulations, lies, insults, harsh words and cynicism is thrown at him, but the answer is only one, Mr. Simeonov, who also disappeared somewhere on this topic. The prosecution refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings against Elena Yoncheva on the signal of Valeri Simeonov. But the prosecution has two proceedings for the fence, which Valeri Simeonov is responsible for. That's the answer, the real one. No speculation, no assault, no insults, the truth: against Elena nothing, against him two. We're waiting for the truth to come out. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u288	Thank you. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, honourable Members! We thought that the debate would be meaningful, with enough arguments and reinforcements with concrete facts about the reasons you submitted to the government of Boyko Borisov. [[Shows.]] Your claim that the Prime Minister is absent, I think it is untenable because the reasoning states that the mistrust vote is with the Council of Ministers. Here are all the ministers and deputy prime ministers. However, the Prime Minister has commitments so that he can really concentrate on what the state has today as a priority. This is the Presidency and every day the Prime Minister holds meetings. One small part of the ministers who are absent today are because of commitments with the Presidency in Brussels, and one part of you saw the colleagues who left just minutes ago because the flight is at 17.10 pm. This is what we are doing today to respond to all these abstract statements you made in the public domain. In this debate, as has always been proven, parliament is becoming a centre of insulting qualifications. I do not think that was the best that Bulgarian citizens expected to see and all those who are currently listening or watching television. I am pleased with the extraordinary meeting that we made yesterday to the Internal Commission and to the Committee on Budget and Finance, because at least we distracted all these manipulative claims that were being thrown into the public domain. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Each one saw what was done and each one understood that this system, which we are talking about is a decision of the government of Boyko Borisov in 2012. Then the procedure was started and it ended and became operational from 1 April 2013. Everyone understood that 2013 and 2014 there was absolutely no finding of irregularities in the exploitation of this system. What we have found from the analysis, however, is that 2013 - 2014 revenues are not as much as they are after 2014. And this has been proved by the results that were exported yesterday by the finance minister. When it comes to corruption and when many of the MPs say that Bulgaria is the most corrupt country in Europe, I want to really respect your claims. But as of 2009, of the data that are on what you are constantly quoting, and these are the "Eurobarometer" that have done the research and found that Bulgaria is indeed the second most corrupt in the European Union after Greece. However, what you claim in your motives is that Bulgaria has 83% and as of 2009, the rates were 96% in your management when you were finished. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And the government's efforts are to be able to leave 12 countries behind and we to be 83%. On average, for the European Union, the percentage is 68. Dear colleagues, when you want to black state, just comply with what is being done as an effort and with the European research that is being done to see what the pressure is and what the results in the fight against corruption and organised crime are. To questions that are of the "Eurobarometer". You have all seen that there is a question that is related: is there a corrupt action to each of us to these Bulgarians who are surveyed? Do you know what the percentage is? Twenty-seven percent and we are basically in the middle of the Member States of the European Union. Since you have talked a lot about corruption and many examples have been given in this direction, you have also talked about BASIS, about smuggling, I can quote again data that are of these associations, which are actually most interested in showing the results of the fight against smuggling. You see that when BSP rules, it is, of course, with the highest levels. When it rules GERB, you see them fall down. I will also quote, because your motives are entirely based on statements in the media and on sociological research. I am going to show an extremely important institute this is the Center for the Study of Democracy, this graph we have shown many times, about the only real approach they have made as a detection of corruption, pressure and action from 1999 to 2016. [[Shows schedule.]] Colleagues from BSP, here's the ratio of results. You can see that for all these years from 1999 to 2016, yes, you are indeed the best and perhaps that is why what Minister Tsacheva said in your management program does not say anything about fighting corruption. Because I am convinced that you were then motivated to enter the government and continue what you can do best and achieve these results again. [[Applause from GERB.]] These results, however, give very bad reviews when you manage. And because I respect my opposition colleagues, because in yesterday's debate, there was one reproach that we should not go back that far because everyone in the years has contributed either to our entry into the European Union or to our membership in NATO. There are credit institutions that give a rating to the country in the European Union. I can tell you that when you were in charge, the credit ratings were very low. [[shows graphics]] , and when Bulgaria is managed by GERB and at the moment with the United Patriarchs........................................................................................ we already have a positive perspective. [[Applause from GERB.]] These are economic indicators that correspond to both policies and the level of corruption that you are talking about. Colleagues, when we were really fighting crime and corruption in the first term, here are the results that were at the lowest levels. [[Shows schedule.]] Then you of the BSP accused the government of police action at the time, and we see that the levels of corruption as pressure and as an action of feeling are below 10%. In your period, they are 29 years of corruption, and 39 years of corruption pressure. I can tell you one thing: it doesn't honor you when you come out of this tribune and tell lies. Because today, too, as the lies that have been told once again to Delyan Dobrev, I believe that when he comes up with facts, because I think that when we go out and make political statements, we should be based on statistics, on data that are from the institutions where everyone is registered or registered their proceeds with which he has operated. Why are you so offended? Why did someone have to come out and protect someone? And today, even... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] May I speak? [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova: Laughter and excitement.]] You can't. Here, that's what you want to do. [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you did it in a very convincing way. And notice, colleagues from the BSP in the face of their leader wanted to take my word for it. [[Laughter and raging]] Because the truth doesn't want to be perceived. [[Heckling]] But I think the truth should be told, and each one should state his arguments. We've even come to the point that the BSP's captivity just two days ago, you've seen that they've written five points that they're going to refer to the D.A.'s office. They went so far as to make me almost empathetic with even one of the dots. Can you believe it, guys?! [[Noise and lines.]] Those where in two and a half years, in the last 2008, 2009 there were 13 abductions that were proven by the evidence we collected, two murders and all that was in your management mandate. You've come to the point of trying to pin it on me. Like today, once again, you say I was a driver. I don't have a professional license. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So I never was.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u290	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u291	I can tell you that personal arguments, when you put them to your personal opponent, are not serious. When we talk about politics, we need to talk about the motives that you have tabled and defend your principled position on whether you have enough facts to ask for this vote of mistrust. What the government is doing, and the assessment given yesterday by Timmermans, the Vice President of the European Commission, who is in charge of Justice and Home Affairs, also supports efforts and politics, but not with idle speaking, but with the legislative measures that the government makes and the legislation that we have adopted. Mrs. Tsacheva speaks a lot about this subject. Anti-corruption legislation. As you wanted to take my word today, Mrs. Ninova, you wanted to take away the opportunity to have legislation that would fight corruption and be able to actually take account of high results. [[Applause from GERB]] of what the European Union and the European Commission wanted us to do. I can talk more, because I guess our parliamentary group has plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u292	Seven minutes, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u293	However, I would like to be with my fellow Members who are travelling to Brussels, because tomorrow we will have the opportunity to have a lot of meetings as ministers on their commitments, and so will I with my commitments. I assure you that Bulgaria is looking much better today than when you ruled. Today's vote, let's see what the data is. I only knew about the bankruptcy of KTB, which happened in your government, but today I found out that you have been frequent visitors and users of KTB [[Applause from GERB]] about everything that's been going on inside. There have been accusations by some representatives of BSP that GERB in one form or another has supported the initiative of the DPS so that we can actually stop the looting from happening in KTB. We supported the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, not because we are coalition partners, but because there are policies that need to be supported, regardless of our political differences. In this direction perhaps, Mr. Dobrev, another time just present these documents to the parliamentary group, so that we can know who contributed and participated in the looting of KTB, and I believe that the BSP in this regard proved it in their management mandate. This is the practice that you did in the banking sector when you went bankrupt 1995. Colleagues from BSP, my request to you is: support the government of Borisov, because Prime Minister Boyko Borisov with his team and with this parliamentary support... We can be proud that Chancellor Merkel is coming to Bulgaria, all the leaders of the European Union are coming and Tusk and Juncker. Colleagues, just to tell you that in 2013 your doors were closed for Europe, for the European Union. Let us remember the only strong visit that was strongly reflected in the media, this was for the open restaurant in Vietnam. Yes, it's okay to develop tourism or increase the consumption of Vietnamese restaurants [[Applause in GERB]] But I think today, when we have a policy related to the fight against corruption, even what was said about fences... Let us recall that when we made these deterrents and when they were built, the European Commission believed the reliability of the Bulgarian external border. 160 million were granted. EUR, which are currently to upgrade this capacity for external border guards. These are sensor systems, these are video surveillance cameras and what Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov said, that when there is a compromise of the containment facility, there are immediately taken management decisions that are to amplify the travels that are made with living force by Border Police. So let me wish you success in your desire to ask for a vote of no confidence. I can tell you that right now you are making us much more motivated, much stronger and we are convinced that Bulgaria today has no alternative to today's governance. This is the management of GERB [[Applause from GERB]] with economic growth for 2017 "3.9%," and with economic growth, forecast for 2018. 4.4%. While you had a 5.5% deficit. And you wanted us out of the European Union very much, Mr. Pawnov. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u294	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Here you are, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u295	Honourable President, honourable Members of the Cabinet! I'll try to get in on the motivation. We talked about everything today. Let's spend a few minutes on health care in the Republic of Bulgaria. These days, the health care fund manager said that this or at the latest next year the health system would collapse in full, even though we gave 407 million. lv. more this year. There is a study and I will refer to the Center for the Study of Democracy and to the Open Society, in which the people in Bulgaria claim that after customs is the most pronounced corruption in health care. Two thirds of doctors in another study confirm that they were taking money outside the regulations. Besides money, I think today we need to talk about trust in this system. Ruining trust in the system is the most devastating result of these phenomena, problems, attitudes and statements. It is disturbing to find that the extra payments are a norm rather than an exception of 70 per cent in births, 60% for providing unprofessional care for eating, dressing, service. The scariest part is that increasingly rarely these additional forced payments are seen as corruption. This is the so-called small health corruption. The reason for it, however, is the so-called great corruption. Under the conditions of missing reform, anti-corruption measures do not stand much chance. Moreover, the strengthening of regulation and the eradication of public character in the Health Insurance Fund leads to corruption and abuse. The danger of seeking to strengthen administration is great. And that's exactly what happens with this government, this majority. There are serious structural reasons for corruption, and they are the result of the adopted or unadopted management decisions, a system with high corruption potential and risk, the lack of political will to reform, the shortage of management and administrative capacity, the preservation environment for corruption practices. More facts. The National Health Insurance Fund is the sole payer for health services. Practically contained, it is often compared to bottomless landings, which can take on many more additional funds with the same end result - deficit and discontent. Public expenditure in healthcare is equal to private expenditure, especially for medicinal products and medical devices, with more public expenditure for them, according to EUROSTAT. A lot of private cash payments are under the table. The unstable, variable regulations and environment is pleasant for corruption. For example, medical standards have long become a tool for shutting down hospitals and lying to the rightful Casa. Strengthening state intervention and regulation, limiting the financial resources of patients leads to a corresponding search for ways to circumvent the rules. The huge debt of the medical institutions, the decision to help some of them, selected and others not, is a vicious practice. In any new restriction, however, or vague rules flourish new corruption schemes, the most incredible ones, such as the specializations of some of the most recent corruption schemes because of the dependence on the desire or unwillingness of the management of the medical institution. Drug policy is a policy with a huge corruption charge. A vivid example is the so-called "reexport" - one generally legal activity, deformed in a business with the health of the Bulgarian patient sometimes in terms of life-threatening conditions. Without objective work on any specific medicinal product of the Commission in prices and reimbursements, the Committee on Evaluation of Health Technologies in Clinical Trials, without gytwains, calculations of the price ratio, with gaps in administrative measures, cannot reduce corruption pressure and there will always be suspicion of protection. And all of this is against the background of a lack of a single information system and registers and a refusal to accept our proposal for a specific deadline for the introduction of eHealth. At committee and media meetings, the finance minister, the chairman of a parliamentary group and the health minister said that in the health system, I quote: "Many are stolen." However, the most striking example of theft in the sector is the theft of that 1 billion. 300 million. BGN intended for reform. The lack of reform, the absence of declarations, the vague intentions, the confused messages and administrative pressure deepen the dangerously corrupt environment and the sense of impasse in health care. The lack of hope that something will change for the better is causing us today to support this vote of mistrust. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u296	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. Are there lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u297	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, if they remain so! There's one. [[Vote in GERB and OP that the spokesperson did not place his card on the panel.]] Is that Krasi Velchev? Get out there and say it. Show yourself! When I start talking, I'll put it on, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u298	Put your card on, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u299	Mr. Velchev, why didn't you speak? [[Putting his card down.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! From today's debate, and from everything I think our citizens know, there will be no word that corruption in Bulgaria exists. By the way, this is clearly shown by the Transparency International. Their latest research shows that Bulgaria is again falling six places down and is already in 75th place, i.e. the situation is worse at the moment than it was before. That corruption is there, has already mentioned our deputy prime minister, who was just talking, but now disappeared, saying that there is nothing scary about it, that there was corruption everywhere, what are we worried about?! From the statement of the President of your parliamentary group, we have learned that it is actually the BSP who was responsible for this corruption, because some of the time they were stealing. So what's the problem?! Why shouldn't we steal if you're stealing?Mr. Tsvetanov said. And here's the problem. There's no way we're to blame for the fact that since the beginning of the year, there's been one shot each day. For Mr. Peter Hristov, whom I do not know, but whom the media associate with Mr. Tsvetanov, there is no way to blame BSP. It's someone else's fault, it's not BSP! Today's vote is not a shift, and it's not an attempt to replace one thieving gang in the elite with another. I don't want you to get out of your seats so some other thief can sit on them. This started or rather ended Mrs. Ninova's speech at the beginning of that day. I will vote and work against corruption no matter who represents it. Today you just don't represent her, you manage her! And you have to go away to change the rules in the country! That's the point of today's vote! Many people must have been corrupted in the country, but you are now the ones who represent it. Don't go back because people know where corruption is. They can feel it. All the research and all the citizens know where it is. Bulgarian citizens must choose their new government. To get there, because they obviously need new elites, you have to go! Whether this will happen with this vote of distrust or later with your resignation, be assured that it will come. This will not be your first resignation, because it will be the third for the government of Borisov. But she will come sooner or later, because citizens no longer agree to be assured that this is the normal course of things, that corruption has been and will always be there, and we will continue. No, guys! In this country, there can be no corruption. In this country it can be managed fair and squarely, but the path to this is the resignation of the government! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Are there any lines to Mr. Kutev's statement? I can't see. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u301	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, it seems that at the end of this session you are tired, but you must carry out your duties until the end. When this tribune tells lies and untruths just spoken by Mr. Kutev... He said there was stealing and there was going to be. Of course, where BSP activists are present, there have always been robberies! I'll tell you when. Mrs. Ninova and I were at the SDS together. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u302	The procedure is the way it's run. Turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u303	I was the mayor of Plovdiv during the privatization. I didn't privatize three square centimeters and she privatized a whole foreign trade company! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u304	Turn to me, Mr. Gurnevsky! What are you not satisfied with my conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u305	I am not pleased because you should remind me that she as Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Plovdiv Fair made it possible for Plovdiv oligarch Georgi Gergov to steal Bulgarian state and municipal properties for more than 700 million when she was a principal in the ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u306	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u307	You should have reminded Mr. Kutev why they haven't won elections since 2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u308	Why are you dissatisfied with my speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u309	They do not win elections because since 2009 the Bulgarian people have someone to vote for because the Bulgarian people know that when the communists come to power, the state burns.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u310	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u311	And one more thing. They say: "GERB are the worst, GERB are the most corrupt and the people choose GERB and I ask you, comrades and comrades...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u312	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky, for the remark. I'll learn my lesson. [[Strong noise in BSP, partial applause in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u313	You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u314	Thank you, Madam President. I address you and through you and the MPs of the ruling majority. Please do not allow questions from this tribune to be asked, to make suggestions, to create false news and to distort the truth, what Mr. Gurnevsky just did! Because the truth, Madam President, is a wonderful and unshakable thing, but it is difficult to cultivate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u315	To me, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u316	And if you wanted this truth to be cultivated, I turn to you, I repeat, and through you and the ruling MPs who are in this Chamber, why they do not ask questions about the key privatisation deals, about CIBANK, about the Pamporovo AD, about the Bulgarian telecommunication company...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u317	Thank you, Lord Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u318	...for the ERPs? Why don't they ask these questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u319	Maybe I should ask those questions? Thank you for your remark. I'll learn my lesson.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u320	We also wanted to ask questions to Mr. Borisov, who is not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u321	Thank you. I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u322	Through you we address Mr. Borisov: why, after he became Prime Minister of Bulgaria, the revenues of CIBANK...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u323	To me, Mr. Popov, please! Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u324	Madam President, I would like to ask a question through you to the Prime Minister because he is absent here. He is absent from this important debate for Bulgaria. Let's ask him: how do state-owned companies double their deposits and win a competition for distribution of wine stickers? How does this thing happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u325	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'll pass on the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u326	And one more question I'd like to ask through you to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u327	Ask the question to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u328	Yes, to you and to you to ask the Prime Minister or colleagues of the ruling majority. [[Replications, chanting by GERB. Awesome.]] Why when the BSP said: "The Mutts out of power!...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u329	Thank you, Mr. Popov! I think that was enough as a statement. [[National Representative Philip Popov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Popov! We've all gone too far already! Mr. Kirilov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u330	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam President, when you took the heavy task of asking and did not object...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u331	Because they turn to me, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u332	...by the rules on how the debate is conducted, I continue to object, but on the basis of the questions I would like to ask: why Mrs. Nino's lawyer in 1998. The one who set up her RMD... [[(Speaks and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u333	Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u334	...was her lawyer until 2006, so why is he signaling for BASIS?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u335	Mr. Kirilov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u336	Why are you working with this source? [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u337	Mr. Kirilov, let's work on the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u338	With the lawyer who now belongs to a Bulgarian oil and gas company?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u339	To me, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u340	And when we ask, where is Mrs. Maslarova, Madame Chairman? [[(Radio.) Replices, noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u341	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Svilensky, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct. I'm confused, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u342	Procedure in the manner of conduct, that's right. Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u343	I'm learning too, Mr. Svilensky. You can see me listening to you all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u344	It will be entirely within the Rules of Procedure, as you as President of the National Assembly, except to keep an eye on the order in the Chamber and on who is speaking and on what subject, would be good to keep an eye on health as well. Here some colleagues raised blood pressure, blushed their cheeks, started turning back and forth. It's dangerous! I know there are doctors in parliament. Mr. Gurnevsky's had his cock tight for a week, that he couldn't get anything at the time of the privatization.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u345	To me, Mr. Svilensky! [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u346	Mr. Gurnevsky, the buses, Volvo...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u347	There are doctors in the room, if anyone feels unwell, please let the doctors take the attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u348	...I think it's enough for one term. Bring in a second-hand bus and pay for a new one...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u349	Please, Mr. Svilensky! Thank you. [[(Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria: ……]] Colleagues, please! Colleagues! Colleagues, please be quiet! We continue with the speeches. [[National Representative Spas Gurnevski wants the floor.]] You are not entitled to a second statement. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for a personal explanation. [[Noise, cheer, lines.]] Colleagues, please, I'm addressing everyone. I think we're tired enough, let's be constructive in the debate. Let's not get into personal attacks. Please, let us continue constructively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u350	Mr. Svilensky! Here a colleague of yours once allowed himself to speak untruths. I gave him a week to apologize, or he goes where liars go! The man found the strength to apologize, and I didn't do anything against him. You have said here a grand lie against which there is evidence of the Bulgarian court for the purest deal, which not only has not damaged the municipality, but has brought 3 million and 600,000 levs of savings to the state from this deal. If you don't apologize in three days, there will be no forgiveness from here on out! You'll go to court where you belong! [[Radio, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u351	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u352	I never let communist liars abuse my name. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u353	Please, Mr. Gurnevsky! Please, guys! Please be quiet! I want to calm the spirit in the room. Please be quiet! [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Personal explanation of a personal explanation cannot be given. If it's a statement... The way you're holding it, here you go. I'll take your word for it if it's not for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u354	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. The exact same procedure Mr. Gurnevsky used. On the same occasion, I would like to treat you, of course, because you have allowed this to be said. First of all, Mr. Gurnevsky, I asked a question and I didn't say you delivered such buses. I said, "Have you delivered?" Now, I'm gonna ask you, did your daughter start working at Metro as manager or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u355	Mr. Svilensky, please! We're getting a lot into privacy. I'm not gonna give anyone a personal explanation anymore! We continue with speeches. Mr. Velkov made a statement. Please take your seats! [[Relation of lines between MPs Spas Gurnevski and Georgi Svilenski. Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please take your seats! Calm down and take your seats! Mr. Velkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Svilensky, you have one week! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u357	Get to the point, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u358	Yeah, basically, on the subject, in answer to the questions that we're talking in general. A unique case of corruption in the sector Security and an attempt to cover up large smuggling. The first half of November 2017 of the border crossings, Captain Andreevo, detained by the authorities of the border police, are two Bulgarian citizens by car with diplomatic number of the Kingdom of Spain. When checking the documents, one of them presents a Bulgarian diplomatic passport, which turns out to be invalid, subsequently a passport of an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm showing like Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Shows document.]] In the subsequent vehicle inspection it is found that the two carry smuggled large amounts of silver and gold jewelry, more than 35 kg., more than 100 thousand short prestigious brands of cigarettes without excise benderol and, notice, more than 550 packages of solution for injection here in Bulgaria and 400 euros abroad. The total value of the retained quantities is about 600 thousand leva. Although their identity has been identified, shortly after detention and verification they have been released and a case has been brought against an unknown perpetrator. The one who presents a diplomatic passport, notice, goes to work and buys a new SUV after two months for about 90 thousand euros, which sells it after two and a half years at 300 thousand kilometers. The same one made 298 trips in 14 months, most of them with a diplomatic passport of the Spanish Consulate General, where the wife of the other in custody works. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that what has happened is a typical example of an attempt to cover up corruption in the sector of Security and the presence of a large smuggling channel, including medicines. And to ask: who is interested in such individuals enjoying the comfort of being protected at such a level, and becoming unknown? I use that here is my esteemed Mr. Radev, to give him all the data from the inspection, the bags, the bags, the drugs, the bracelets, the jewelry, so he can trigger this case as follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u359	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Replies to the speech of the MP? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u360	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we support the vote of mistrust in the context of the conditional parameters of corruption, causes, catalysts and surroundings. What's the first reason? The obvious inadequacy of governance to the expectations of voters. That's how you get to the principle: a sample of error. And the consequence: any discontent leads to the release of new money in unreformed sectors that do not bring public benefit except temporary calm for the government. The main problem of today's majority is the lack of clear vision for governance, lack of vision for reforms and the purpose of reforms. There is no clear idea of what will happen and of a strategy how to reach the goal, with what means and tools. It is precisely the clear vision with a clear strategy that must define the toolbox. However, this approach completely denies a coalition of the type of the current one. Realities today require a new formula, a new type of management, a new type of coalition. The current formula of management has another disadvantage.. the lack of a clear management program. The reason is not in GERB party, not even in nationalists. The reason is the incompatibility of the basic ideas on which the majority is built. GERB strives to be a typical democratic party, and nationalists are a collection of power-seeking populist organizations. In this situation, we do not simply support the vote of no confidence on corruption, but we point out the root cause, the environment that generates corruption and the incompetence of the government to govern in modern conditions. Only arithmetic in politics is no longer a solution to the problem of governance. With this vote, this government is unlikely to fall, but it is doomed to fail and fall because of its genies. The movement for rights and freedoms will vote for a no-confidence vote for the reasons that give rise to the extremely negative consequences, only one of which is corruption. It is time for dialogue on visions and management programmes under individual sectoral policies. It is time for decisive action to eliminate the food environment for corruption. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The wrong formula predicts bad order, Adhok solutions and bad consequences become inevitable. The question is, what's next? A new vision is needed for the development of the country, deep reforms and institutional changes based on an accelerated development programme. The accelerated development programme requires unpopular measures, but such measures cannot be identified by populists and nationalists. The fight against corruption is also a major priority within the framework of the European policy on freedom, security and justice. We call for responsibility, objectivity and pragmatism. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u361	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any lines to Mr. Karadire's statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There's a debate coming up for a few hours. It wasn't a vote of mistrust and motives, and discussion, it was a debate on the way today's sitting, because we lost a few hours and nothing surprised us. This vote will be unsuccessful, and you know it. This vote is a waste of parliamentary time, and you know it. This vote is a demonstration not only of mathematical but also of political helplessness, the helplessness of the BSP, which neither magic nor wizards help, and you know this very well. Your motives are strange and comical compilation between sociological studies, newspaper clippings and some ridiculous coeurfishes. We've also talked a lot about sociology. And have you read the sociology and paid attention to what Mr. Tsvetanov said because he showed it to you in a visual way at the Eurobarometer about the levels of corruption during your management during the reign of Oresharski? [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Have you read the European Commission's monitoring reports? Have you read the papers because you refer to them as well? [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will show you a front page of a first issue of a newspaper during your management. This is the Gallery. [[Shows the newspaper.]] See what it says here: "Fifteen corrupt ministers." This is what the media wrote at the time, and there is a report by the SANS on this occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u363	And you were a minister then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u364	Apropo, when we spoke and talked about reports, because this was part of your motives, I did not hear you say a word about the BASIS system (Bulgarian excise centralized information system), because this soap bubble died yesterday, during the hearing of the Attorney General, the Chairman of the National Security Agency, the Finance Minister. You've drawn some really irrelevant motives, some parts of some reports that you interpret in some weird way. And in fact, at last, what surprised me from today's lost few hours was the theme that you have chosen, fellow Members of the BSP, the topic "Corruption." Although in BSP you are specialists in matter, because in the distant 2001s, your High Council issued a whole manual here it is. [[shows guide]] A Guide to Corruption, 250 pages and examples, examples, examples. So much that it has come to the situation... [[the President signals that time has run out]] ...in which BSP in 2018 found itself in a position of denial of its previous history. Honourable Members, therefore, one piece of advice: stop publishing the publishing activity of "Positano" or with the votes of distrust in corruption, [[noise and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] Because you've just seen in 2035 that your leader's name is in today's motives for the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u366	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I ask you very much, when someone comes out here on this stand, remind him of what we are discussing right now. We're not discussing who's more corrupt or who's the most corrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u367	We are talking about corruption, Mr. Ermenkov, and everyone has the right to say their opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u368	Please! I am addressing you to make remarks because today we are discussing a failure in the fight against corruption. We didn't set time limits. Failure to fight corruption in your third government or in your second government, or from the first to the third. We've set up for corruption at all. And that you're taking it on your own, Madam President, or you're participating in making people feel slightly affected by the principle, the Thief is screaming, "Keep the thief, it's already your fault." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u369	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. That's why, because you haven't put a time cut on the subject, that's why your colleagues are coming back further in time. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u370	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Several things can cause a vote of distrust to be tabled beyond the basic, of course, the fall of the government, which is unattainable to date. First, this vote with something to help fight corruption. Secondly, the vote is a request that there is an alternative other than management. Thirdly, the vote is an attempt by the opposition to show a new face and a new rhetoric. In our opinion, the current debate is a complete failure of importers on all three points. I do not know if the government created after the elections a few months ago is the best, but certainly there is no opposition in Bulgaria with BSP and DPS, at least looking at the motives and looking at the debate. Will this vote in the fight against corruption help anything? True, this is democracy, so it is the opposition to point to the handicaps of a government, and there is nothing wrong with that. However, the no-confidence vote on corruption from the people themselves was received by the representatives of this today's opposition and that is why BSP has been out of power for more than ten years. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] With one sad exception, true, the Oresharski government, when, by the way, the corruption index jumped. That should also be taken into account. Since we're throwing statistics at each other, there's been statistics since 1998. Jean Videnov's government, it is about Transperanti International, where we are with the tragic 2.9 points, up to 4 to crash at the Triple Coalition on 36 in 2007. Levels that are quite slightly improved are valid to date. We also remember the scandals about Bhatko and Bratko, the affair in BDZ with the main hero MP of the DPS, two convicted DPS MPs for corruption. More importantly, in that term BSP legitimizes the feudal-political model of DPS, expressed in the formula of money-power, money-prim. A model that, due to its efficiency, proved desirable by many Bulgarian parties and the elections turned into a race for bought and technological vote. By the way, a race in which BSP participates with enthusiasm today. Does this vote show any new facts about any corruption schemes? I didn't see any. A vote motivated by the yellow pages of the newspapers. Some concrete examples of corruption were promised, and we never heard from them. You want us to forget, not to mention the past, you want us to forget BSP's past as a corruption generator. We can't! We don't see any signs of repair either. Your unwillingness to review the statute of limitations for privatization crimes is just one touch. Your unwillingness to separate yourself from your vote buyers is different. Therefore, we cannot support this vote because you have no moral right to be mentors on this subject. BSP and DPS fighting corruption is like a mass murderer protecting human rights, setting up a human rights protection company. Is the vote an opposition action and a request for a new alternative? Perhaps we should start with something said by colleagues from GERB? For the first time, we have stable economic growth, but more importantly, for the first time in the population there is optimism for next year. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] This optimism was reflected by almost all sociological agencies that measure this indicator. It is not normal to focus the entire campaign of the opposition on something to denigrate, to embarrass the government. We and citizens can easily understand what alternative BSP is preparing for us due to its lasting political course. From the very first days in this National Assembly we were recognized as one of the main opponents of the BSP and the motive is clear Is that anti-corruption? On the contrary, the most powerful anti-corruption measure since 2014 is that we are keeping DPS out of power. Absolutely! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] With all his hoops of companies and commissions, etc. So we will not support this vote because we do not want such an alternative to robbery and destruction, as you are specialists, in a coalition with the DPS, to bring us. Third, the opposition's attempt is to show some face. Is it a new face? For the first time in this term, we have similar antagonism. At least I do not remember such a National Assembly, which has not had 100 days of tolerance, where scandals dominate. But that's not the worst part. In recent months, the BSP has undertaken the tactics of the burned-out land and is destroying the authority of the state and the institutions. The phrases such as "everything is falling apart"... there is no................................................................................................. Irresponsible behavior, no doubt. It's easy to break trust, it's easy to generate despair, but the consequences will long be paid by the whole society. Today's vote is part of this scenario. It does not aim to improve anything, but to strengthen the negativity of the Bulgarians towards everything and everyone. That is to say, for internal-party use, to show how some people are active and to rub the nose of the internal party opposition. That is why we cannot support this vote and remain critical, demanding and corrective governance, we will support the government of Bulgaria. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u371	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Is there anyone who wants a line? [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] What exactly bothered you, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u372	I'll tell you exactly what I'm worried about. My procedure is in the way of conduct, because, Madam President, you previously stated that this vote was not limited in time. No, Madam President, this vote is against this government of Mr. Borisov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u373	Mr. Ermenkov said that, so I quoted him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u374	You confirmed it. Against this government of Mr. Borisov. Yes, the faces and businesses are certainly from the previous governments, but it is against this government. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Please note that when colleagues from the ruling majority turn back the tape that the vote is against this government. As an example, I can give you a reference to the current government how they wrote... [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Philip Popov spoke on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u375	You've given enough examples, Mr. Popov. Thank you. After all, we have a debate. It's not just the way you run things. I took a note about that. Thank you very much, Mr. Popov. [[National Representative Philip Popov continues to speak to off microphones.]] I'll point the debate in the right direction. Please, Mr. Popov! I will direct the debate in the right direction by giving the floor to Mr. Zablyanov because he... Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u376	Honourable President, Vice Prime Ministers, gentlemen and ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, yes, the Rules of Procedure do not allow for the conduct of the proceedings, the time to be added to those who have taken the floor, unlike other procedural matters. That's how it is now in the current Rules of Procedure. But since this debate, colleagues have turned into procedures, procedures, procedures in the manner of conduct, they are practically making a substantive statement. Madam President, I think that there is no obstacle when you consider that one of your fellow Members has taken the floor under the procedure, but makes a statement on the substance, simply asking for the time to be deducted from the remaining time of the group. The whole room is convinced, and so can you. Yeah, I know there's not much time left, but that's the wise thing, because it's really being abused, and it's being made on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u377	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. That's right, you're right. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u378	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure really is the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u379	Great, thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u380	I'm addressing you, Madam President. At today's meeting we witnessed a violation of the Rules of the National Assembly by two MPs who were not sanctioned in due time by the lead, respectively you and your colleague, at the National Assembly meeting. One statement, one offensive qualification was for Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, who was called by Mr. Tsonev...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u381	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u382	...and he was not sanctioned. The other statement was by Cornelia Ninova, who insulted the Prime Minister by saying he was a coward, and by our Rules of Procedure, the MPs have no right...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u383	A remark was made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u384	...to insult the members of the Council of Ministers. And I ask, should there be a double arsin to impose sanctions?! That one was, you see, the chairman of a parliamentary group and a party, and that's why we're not punishing him, the other one was a 30-year-old MP, and that's why we're not punishing him. If you're not going to punish them, then cancel my punishment, which I had said before, without telling anyone who I'd looked at to have justice, not double arsins. Because that's not admissible...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u385	Thank you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u386	...to allow them to insult without being sanctioned. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u387	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u388	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Today's no-confidence vote has undoubtedly shown one fact: this is the political responsibility of the government to the corruption processes that are spreading in the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state at all levels. The government cannot get away with this responsibility because it encourages these processes. Whether it is directly involved in them, or not, encourages them with incompetent legislation, encourages them with all forms of waste of public and European funds. That is why I would like to state our strong position the government is responsible for these processes in Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u389	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u390	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I did not understand from your speech and therefore I am making a line for you to be more specific. Nine years political party GERB ruled the country, nine years we saw the new Strategy, which is about corruption. There's nothing new! Who will bear the political responsibility for these high levels of corruption in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u391	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u392	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! The conversation about corruption in Bulgaria is painful because, as many colleagues have pointed out in the speeches, it affects in some way the whole process of governance of our country. And when it comes to a government that currently manages to accept this task of combating corruption as its immediate goal, not for another reason, but because this negative phenomenon is leaking huge public and European resources, that in the past years huge money has been spent and the results of them are questionable, that the public works that we observe are obviously less quality than that in neighbouring countries, than the funds that are being spent on the operational programmes do not reach the Bulgarian enterprises. Because of all this, every Bulgarian government, including Mr. Borisov's current government, must take the necessary action. The adopted Anti-Corruption Act is obviously insufficient. Then what is needed? A review of all legislation is needed. We just had a few, I'll even say a month and a half ago, we passed the Law on concessions. There we wide open the door for this thing.. we wide open it with the control mechanism, with virtually the unlimited opportunities of the concession holders to do what they want in the areas where they receive concessions. It is no accident that a large number of our citizens are on the street with reasonable doubts about construction in protected areas, parks, abuse of legislation. That's what this is about. It is said that private interests, which have an appetite for public funds, cannot be stopped. Greed in Bulgarian society has become a growing quantity. And then, this is the role of public government, of government, of state power to put a barrier to that. Here the government fails, it encourages it with its actions, with its inactions, with its silence, with its demonstration of helplessness, with the fact that the authorities that must fight corruption do not feel the support of political power. This includes the political responsibility of the government. You're all asking for specific facts. They are in front of the eyes of all Bulgaria. They can't be hidden or removed from this room, we won't surprise anyone! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u393	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u394	Dear Madam President, I promise in advance that I will be without any claim in the way you are leading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u395	Thank you, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u396	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I promise not to be expressive, not to be depressed, not to be reversible. I'll try to be boring.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u397	It's constructive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u398	I could start my short speech with a methodological comment. Because I, besides speaking, like to read everything carefully, including the motives of the vote. There are mentioned many statements, many numbers and everyone who has studied logic, mathematics, other sciences, quite rightly could have claims, for example, based on not complete induction or non-representative research, but I will not start this way. There are a number of purely factual or factual flaws, and I am softly expressing myself. For example, it is mentioned that the last months have been spent 10 billion "I do not know where you got this reference, if it is from the Public Procurement Register, it is good to know that there are other costs, other than the costs made by the State, which are not made by the State, are made by the so-called "sector entities', energy companies that are not at all state-owned. The last eight or nine months, the state has spent two billion eight hundred, nine hundred thousand. Other things are mentioned that, to put it mildly, are not accurate. For example, with the claim that this is mass practice, it is written down as regards road construction, then renegotiates the parameters of the contract, usually with anexes, by which the amount is increased. Is that true, colleagues? It is true if we carry it back for a period of 10 years. At the moment, it's just not true, and I can prove it by numbers. 17,000 public procurements have been carried out for the period since April last year. At least that's what it says in the Public Procurement Agency's register. Do you know the number of anex registered there? The number of registered anexes in general is 288. Not at all! Of these 107 are to increase the value, about as many are to reduce the value. In this sense, the add-ons to increase the value of contracts are 0.63% of all contracts, but I will not start with this either. I won't blame you for corruption either. I'm sure someone would have found an argument for that, but I'm not gonna start like this. I will not do a detailed analysis of what are the right steps to combat corruption. Mrs. Tsacheva was extremely detailed, extremely punctual, also in front of the MPs who voted, or they didn't, it doesn't matter, much of the anti-corruption legislation such an explanation is pointless. I will not ask how there is a great deal of corruption in the revenue section of the tax, excise duties, provided that income from tax and non-tax revenue increases and growth is also greater than the growth of gross domestic product, and the growth of consumption, even in cases where we have an increase in rates, the growth is greater than that, but I will not start with that either. Any such start of the conversation would mean that I denigrate the problem of corruption, and I would not want to do so because it is now a problem. First of all, she has it, and then she's a problem. She's a problem, not just because she eats public resources. That, I'll surprise you, isn't even the biggest problem, it's huge. The bigger problem is that corruption destroys the foundations of the state and also in a market economy, when there is corruption, the meaning of a fair race disappears. On the market, companies must compete to each try to be better, to offer better quality, a better price. If someone buys the championship, what's the point of a market economy? That's why I want to start a different way. Firstly, a vote against the government for mistrust, for fighting corruption, has a structural problem, absolutely structural. Is it government's duty to fight corruption? Absolutely! Undoubtedly, with its entire apparatus, the auditors, inspectorates, offices, Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the finale, the final step in the fight against corruption is prosecutor and court. The discussion about the fight against corruption cannot begin and cannot end with the government. In this sense, if we want to have an effective fight against corruption, we must continue to improve both on the legal basis, giving into the hands of both the government and the prosecution and the courts enough tools to effectively combat corruption. Yeah, corruption isn't a light cold. Someone had made an analogy with an illness. It is a really serious disease and there is no way to treat it with vitamins. Another question is what is the genies of corruption, because analysts have different views on the issue. According to some, the roots of corruption were 150 years ago, 10 or 15 years ago there are different views on the issue. But since I have no political experience before 150, 10 or 15 years ago, I will refrain from commenting. If any of you have anything to say about this, I'd love to hear it. The main thing, however, is that the fight against corruption also requires other political foundations. Here the main thing, what is most important, first of all, is following the same standards. This European cliché, which sounds very boring, the moment you try to apply it, you realize it's not that easy. It means to speak what you think, to do what you say, to measure with the same archin, no matter where you are in government, or in opposition, to be equally harsh to your own and to others when they are wrong. That's what we're trying to do. Secondly, I notice that there is a systematic attack on regulations and institutions on the fight against corruption. Dear colleagues, there is no more effective tool to combat corruption than laws and institutions. Our problem isn't usually the law, the problem is the law's non-compliance. After all, a huge part of our legislation is transposing European legislation and the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Procurement. Let us focus on the efforts to comply with the laws, the institutions to work. Yes, hit the political representatives, your absolute right, even an obligation. As long as we don't get to the situation in an attempt to hit the captain, to sink the boat because they're different things. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will never win the war on corruption if society is not our ally. Yes, fighting corruption without institutions can't work, but without society as an ally, it can't work. In the end, corruption is obtained from both sides of the counter [[(Replication by National Representative Valeri Zhablyanov:]] And the one he gives and the one he takes. If we don't win people as an ally, including no one to signal. And lastly, I thought I'd end up with a recommendation. In your quest for bright opposition to keep yourself from being a moderator of the Heath or the forces of darkness. Only there's a danger that he'll be misunderstood in a wrong way. This, by the way, is an interesting recommendation, so the opposition could gain more vocality, but it would lose the chance to manage, but this is a completely different subject, and I will not tell you this. I want to end this another way. I have listened carefully to the debate, I have listened carefully to every word, and I am convinced that whatever comments there are in this House are gathered people who are not only good speakers, people who are not only good analysts, I am convinced that here are gathered people who are good organizers, and I am absolutely convinced that if there is a full mobilization, when I say full mobilization, I mean two things: first, 360 degrees all who are here to combat corruption, there will be an effect. And secondly, if we follow the same standards that we are fighting corruption in a hall and outside the hall. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u399	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u400	The dear Mr. Donchev provoked me with the call "If anyone has anything else to say about the reasons," he talked about the genesis of corruption. I have also spoken in this House about what I believe on the subject and the issue here is not the genies, it is not in one party or another. We are here at the moment fulfilling the thoughts, desires and strategic designs of some masters who want us to fight, to fight with each other, to blame ourselves, to chew ourselves, to pour ashes on our heads because we are a corrupt people, that in Bulgaria a lot is being stolen, that is, if you will, folksychology and that is why we Bulgarians are to blame for the bad haly we find ourselves guilty of. And that's not true. Once, when I was a judge, I sentenced a socialist citizen to a year and a half in prison and he laid them down for diverting to his villa two bricks trucks and a sand truck. And then I'd hitchhiked him at the station. Graph Ignatevo. I remember the moment. I didn't recognize him. But he was grateful because he was guilty. Imagine consciousness, people's consciousness, people's psychology! Yes, as the poet said, he became a man in prison, and now we see what this is about. And all for a long time, as a result of some 30 years! How could some 30 years change people's psychology, lead us to blame each other for how thieving we are and that we are almost the chiefs of statistics or Western media such as the Guardian. And for a reason Volen Siderov here recently talked about masochism in this all. And today, in this debate, there was a great deal of masochism to push again, to blame ourselves for how bad we are. I don't think we're worse than other relevant, slightly more distant or very distant peoples. And I have always said: the problem of corruption and its genesis, Mr. Donchev, consists and is mainly rooted in the model, which was not thrilled, this model, which is a colonial model, which includes three main directions: first, in political and sense; second, in the economic model that we follow and implement; and, third, in a spiritual sense. A political class, which is largely installed, it is provoked, it is appointed and follows foreign interests and part of it is given to be on a pedestal, to be on a level, it has been continuously presented by obedient and sold also for the benefit of masters media, which moment by moment, hour by hour impose certain comfortable persons in all spheres of life. The second part of the economic model that has been spoken of today and which really implies corruption, the liberal model that has made profit at all costs, in a possible way, which has neglected the social state and which has raised, introduced and formulated, and we are introducing by directives and some laws which, by themselves, instantly, hour by hour, year by year, generate corruption. And the third part of this model is the spiritual model, the values, the lack of Christian values, because until now, when it comes to corruption, I have not heard a single omniscient analyst, a political psychologist, anything, including a politician, believe that the spiritual model, the model of values, which is also liberal and in which we are inserted, also generates corruption in itself. Because there is no faith that can make people honest, which reminds people, children from young that they are not stealing! and for everyone in Bulgarian society there are no barriers, there is no measure, there are no limits. That is why the liberal model has created and taken the postulate, the rule of the possible profit, which is a high purpose, is value, not honesty, not morality, not that principle. And I would be more specific in any of the guidelines, I would talk to you for a very long time, but I see that each of you wants to finally end this debate, and I want it to end so that this self-harming will stop...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u401	Go on, because you're right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u402	... these self-incriminations here, we Bulgarian MPs, who come out of the Bulgarian people, who are brought to the state and to the situation of self-incrimination, self-incrimination and every moment to blame themselves, to throw hate, to cast envy at the successful and to unjustly align the successful and justly successful, and these are all things that no one talks about. Some of the things I've heard in this room today, but I think we should try to systematize them. So, to me, these are directions, these aren't the only ones we need to look for the genesis of corruption, the causes of corruption. And, let's stop having harakiritas, from drawing arguments about who to rule, one or the other. We are all a victim, we are not a subject, we are a subject of government, things are much deeper, they are a matter of geostrategicism, they are a matter of strategic givens in the world, they are a question of the gigantic battle between doctrines that are currently the doctrine of liberalism and of conservatism. In this battle, the notions of left and right are highly blurry, do not apply, have another sound, have another meaning. And I will tell you, in many ways and very often BSP plays the role and defends conservative principles, and allegedly conservative parties and movements defend liberal views and principles. And that is the conflict and the contradiction of new times. It is in the unkilled conservative elites of the world to take control and put things back on their true basis, based on patriotism, nationalism, market social economy, to return things to Christian morality, views and values. This debate in a few days will be the debate on what is called the Istanbul Convention and there will also be a question of ideology, which is the main issue, a question of values, and here will become a great division, a great manifestation by all of us for belonging to one or the other thesis. Thank you. [[Applause from the OP and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u403	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u404	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Shopov, I can't believe I hear from the mouth of a MP who was in the 36th, 37th, 40th and now the 44th National Assembly that people and their values are responsible for corruption! They only suffer from this corruption because if you all don't know what corruption is, let me explain it to you. These are the actions of unscrupulous people who have turned politics into business and this is actually the root of their poverty. And after this debate, I don't know if you will say whose product you are, because you explained that you are an object and a product and whose interests you are actually protecting, but after this debate you give reasons to all of you, except for the people asking for distrust of all the politicians in the transition!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-23.u405	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Shopov? You won't use it. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I am closing the debate on the vote of no confidence tabled. Since under the rules of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 The vote on the Draft Decision must be no earlier than 24 hours from the end of the debate, the vote will take place on Thursday, 25 January, at 9.00, as the first item on the agenda. The next regular plenary session is 24 January, tomorrow, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
