ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, after the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, the work programme for the day has a point of sole control of Parliament. I had included the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, but since there was no report in the Ministry, given that the report must be processed precisely and there are references to other laws, we will work today on a point of sole Parliamentary control. Good afternoon, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Incomes Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Today is the first Wednesday of the month. [[crowd cheering]] "Please remain silent and it is time for the parliamentary groups to make proposals under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. There's no such thing. I'll introduce you to a few messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 25 July to 4 September 2018: Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project concluded by Exchange of Letters. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill for enterprises of social and solidarity economy. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill ratifying the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Message: in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets as at 30 June 2018 at: the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the State Agency of National Security. "Knyaz Aleksandar I", State Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Now, fellow Members, before the next announcement, I suggest we vote on the agenda with a single item. Please vote. They voted 154 MPs: 126, against 3, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. We'll continue with the messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria has informed the National Assembly that: 1. in the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, that by his own orders he authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and a visit to the port of Varna for the period from 16 to 18 August 2018 including ships of the composition of the Ukrainian Navy. The visit is related to the conduct of study sailing in the aquatory of the Black Sea. In addition to the Training Programme of the cadets of the Academy for the Training of Officers for the Military Forces of Ukraine in Odessa and for the period from 3 to 9 September 2018, including a ship of the members of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Turkey. The visit is related to the conduct of training in the framework of the Sea Teachings and Improvement 2018 Programme; 2. in the performance of art. 64, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria that by its own orders he has authorised the sending of a formation by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the Joint Rotary Training of the Training Polygon The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad for 2018 and is related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, to another country or organisation of armed forces. The sending of a formation by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is staffed with military personnel with equipment for participation in the Joint Multifunctional Teaching, which will be held at the International Peace and Security Centre in the Polygon "Yavorev". The Republic of Ukraine, during the period from 1 to 16 September 2018. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria have been notified to the competent state authorities. The notifications were received with input numbers 803-09-42, 803-09-43, 803-09-46 and 803-09-49 and provided to the Defence Committee. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria has notified the National Assembly in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria that, by its own orders, he authorised the dispatch of the first stage to a training with real action on the territory of the Kingdom of Norway of formations and separate servicemen of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with general personnel and motor equipment, as follows: - for the period from 22 September to 9 December 2018. "Soldiers without weapons and ammunition, forces without motor equipment; - for the period from 23 October to 9 November 2018. Military servicemen without weapons and military supplies, military personnel with state weapons, no ammunition, with automotive equipment. NATO's teaching will take place between 24 October and 24 November 2018 in two stages, as follows: a teaching with real action of the locality and a two-stage command and command exercise. Second, the deployment of personnel troops with state-owned equipment, equipment and vehicles from the Land Forces to participate in a multinational exercise, which will take place in a military polygon in Germany for the time from 11 September to 1 October 2018. Third, the sending of a formation by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with a staff of soldiers to participate in rotational training at the Center for Joint Preparation of the US Forces in Germany for the period from 11 to 30 September 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent state authorities have been notified. Fourth, in the implementation of the Plan for the preparation of the Defence Headquarters, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence in 2018 from 25 to 28 September 2018 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held training of forces and means for anti-aircraft defence.... for the operation in conditions of radio electronic interference. In this regard, for the period from 24 to 28 September 2018, it is allowed to reside on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for servicemen of the composition of the NATO Centre and trucks. The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, another State or organisation of military forces. The notifications were received with input numbers 803-09-44, 803-09-45, 803-09-47 and 803-09-48 and provided to the Defence Committee. Messages: - The updated audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2018. The programme was submitted by letter by letter. No 824-00-13 by the President of the Court of Auditors, indicating relevant changes thereto. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - Reports have been received to the National Assembly by the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 June 2018 to 20 July 2018 and 25 July 2018 until 24 August 2018 and Protocols No 32 and No 36 from the meetings of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund held on 27 July 2018 and on 28 August 2018 respectively, at which the accounts have been reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the accounts and protocols were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute received information about: The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to take the floor. I'm glad the BSP group has more than 20 people. [[Applause from GERB.]] Unfortunately, it seems that your leader knocked her paycheck and left again. But in spite of everything, [[Applause from GERB]] , out of respect for all of you, I will allow myself to read a statement. I take the floor in connection with the attacks against GERB, the creation of compromises introduced by some young left-wing MPs and their leader, who irradiate society with slander. Dirty suggestions, public speculations, one for government money...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u3	Microphones pull a little, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u4	...and the others for the band of thieves. I don't hide that there are people with left-wing beliefs in this room and outside of it that I have infinite respect for and value. That is why I will allow myself to be a little more specific, and I will therefore address you as:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u5	Mr. Rashidov, closer to the microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u6	The reason for me to say the next words is the constant ludicrous creeds, and that's exactly during the vacation. I don't know what right you are to make obvious slanders and insults. I am deeply surprised by whose bell tower do you lynch sin?! I would have passed another emotion, but I wouldn't, because you publicly condemned the ruling party GERB with the words "shike thieves." After all, who are you to condemn everyone... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u8	Quiet, please! After all, who are you to condemn us all to civil death?! Pulling out the names and putting a public brand on the heads of government like Hitler's Jewish stars to know who's Jewish and who's an Aryan Democrat. This is unacceptable slander, fellow Members. Personally, I feel affected by two mandates as Minister of GERB. That is why I am going to allow myself to read you information and visible with the naked eye real data from the work of this called "shike." I, as part of this government, report to you: it has been done, colleagues, theatre reform. As long as you had an audience tide, the halls are full today. They are renovated: the theatre in Plovdiv, the theatre in Varna, the theatre in Burgas, the satirical theatre, the hall "Bulgaria" and the opera in Ruse, the opera in Burgas. Mainly renovated Movie Cinema "Odeon". They are renovated and renewed: National High School of Polygraphy and Photography, National High School of Ancient Languages and Cultures, National School of Dance Art, National School of Art in Sliven, Music School in Plovdiv, Music School in Pleven, Music School in Burgas. EU funds were won for the National School of Arts in Varna and the National School of Folk Art in Kotel. An Alley of Artists was created in the Central Sofia cemetery. Restored, preserved, displayed are: Ancient Serdika Largo in the center of Sofia; Archaeological finds under the basilica.St. Sofia " in the capital; The Red Church in Perushtitsa; The Crossing of the barracks in Vidin; Eski Mosque in Stara Zagora; Trapezica in Veliko Tarnovo; the church in the village of Tvalichevo; the church "St. George"; the Shushman mound near Kazanlak and the Iron Church "St. Sofia" in Istanbul, for which for decades only negotiations took place, and during the reign of GERB the temple was restored with an unseen glare of the Golden Horn; the reserve "Pliska"; the ancient city of Akve Calidaede near Burgas; the Roman fortress Sexaginta Prista. A hall is renovated and renovated in the building of the National Gallery. The National Polytechnic Museum was also renovated. The house of Yavorov was renovated, colleagues who for a long time no one had touched for years. The house museum of Ivan Vazov was renovated. New museums were created, colleagues: National Gallery "Square 500"; Museum of Contemporary Art; Museum of Socialist Art; Museum of Metoha in Istanbul. I am proud to have a great personal merit for Bulgaria to regain in 2011 the exarchic properties in Turkey. This was the dream of generations of Bulgarians that I realized. We solved the long-standing problem of the Bulgarian artists, returning the building of Shipka (No 6) to the artists. Over 5 million are secured. lv. more about Bulgarian cinema. Nearly 5 million were secured. lv. for the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. More than 2 million were provided. lv. for the Bulgarian libraries. And beware, there have been increased funds for performing arts from 48 million to 80 million, colleagues. Two five-year cooperation agreements between Bulgaria and the world Louvre Museum are signed. For the first time in its history, Bulgaria was presented in the world's largest museum, the Louvre, with the grand exhibition of the Thracian kings. And at the moment in the same museum is the second Bulgarian exhibition, which you do not know about. It is good to go to Paris, to visit the Bulgarian art, to see it. The masterpiece of our exhibition in the Louvre, Sevt III, became an accent at the museum "Pol Getty" in the United States. The 2016 exhibition of Bulgarian icons currently popularizes our national culture in the Tretyakov Gallery "the fourth-largest museum in the world." The Bulgarian opera was presented with great success at the Wagner Festival in Fusen, Germany, Japan, Cyprus and the Bolshoi Theatre. Agreements for cultural cooperation with France, Georgia, Armenia, China, Turkey, Russia and the Czech Republic are signed. Agreements were signed to combat illegal trafficking of cultural values with Italy and Turkey. Returned, colleagues, were 21 000 Bulgarian antiques from Canada. Signed agreements for film co-productions with Israel, France and Turkey. A Regional Center of UNESCO is opened, one of the six in the world is located in Bulgaria. A new Bulgarian Cultural Institute was opened in London. The Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Paris and others has been updated. New premises of the Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Moscow and the Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Skopje are provided. All of this, colleagues, we did it. My team and I, Vejdi Rashidov, in just seven years. It's only seven years! And you, ma'am, are walking around like a parliamentary model doing photo shoots of people's pain. [[Applause from GERB.]] You could have planted at least one tree that would have been more useful for the Bulgarian state. I am sure that such a report can give any one of my colleagues. And after all this, you allow yourself to say a bunch of thieves?! Yes, ma'am, for a year and a half at Oresharski you had a Minister of Culture who, instead of creating, kept digging into the Ministry's paperwork to find something to aggravate me with. A year and a half lost time and nothing is there. It is because of this that a person should measure his words, because I believe that there are people in parliament to whom personal dignity is more important than anything else. But I know one of those gangs you're talking about, which I can tell you by name today. It's this gang that was involved in gang privatization and RMDs. These are the people who have robbed the country and today some are living as rural Madonnas and others as provincial saints. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm not the one who got my hands on this crib, my colleagues, not me. I am proud that my art brings abroad the glory of my country, of which I am a citizen. I promise you that from today onwards I will not give my consent through my art to promote the Bulgarian state in order to give you and your Komsomols this opportunity. I'm just wondering what you'd do to the world. I'm just wondering. What exactly do you know how to do?! [[Applause from GERB.]] It is strange, however, how much the Bulgarian taxpayer costs a photo with Goran Bregovic. It's also very nice and strange to hear. But Nasse, let's get past this. Clearly, you have not yet understood a simple truth: that talent is not created with money, but a person is either born with it or not. No matter how much we grind anything, it won't become a diamond. It remains nothing. [[Applause from GERB.]] Since your aggression demoralizes society, humiliates statehood, insults human dignity, it reminds me of the decay of a civilization. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And I'm done. Remember the destruction of the Roman Empire, of Nero, who kills the color of the intellect, his master Seneca. It ignites Rome, sends centurions to Petronius, which is an indirect suicide order. Petronius, named by his contemporaries, called the architer elegance, called the final party at which the color of the intellect of Rome is present. A feast is about to begin. Petronius and Briseida cut their wrists during the party and die beautifully and dignifiedly. But Petronius wrote a letter to Nero: "The fact that you killed your mother does not concern me, that it weighs on your conscience. The fact that you raped and killed your sister doesn't concern me. It's your fault and your responsibility. The fact that you set Rome on fire and cast the blame on Christians also does not concern me "The power is in your hands and you can do whatever you want. But what I can't forgive you is your talentless poems. Don't write, please, your terrible songs, don't sing! I'm leaving this world disgusted by your hard work in art. I choose death one room where you're not there. And your lady, the leader of the left, is doing something even worse than Nero, because she can't sing and write, rent...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u9	The weather, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u10	...singers and poets, less gifted than she is. [[Applause and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u12	Dear Madam President, I am providing what I have read, documents, so as not to say that this is not true. [[The National Representative Vejdi Rashidov provides materials to the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u13	Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! This declaration was the strongest proof that this Parliament had exhausted its essence. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] What policy was there in this declaration, what solution to the problems of Bulgarians for which we were sent here, was there in this declaration? There was hatred, personal attacks and qualifications to the opposition chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u15	Against all the opposition?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u16	My fellow Members, once again I say to you: when we faced not you, but the system from which you are part, the oligarchical and political mafia system, we have realized what awaits us. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u17	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u18	And for your personal attacks, and for the reaction of this mafia, and for that 10 billion. lv. You will feel affected if we are aware of this and take that risk. [[Heckling]] You won't scare us, nor will you stop us with such declarations. [[Noise and lines.]] But now specifically. Dear colleagues, I do not understand why you are offended when we quote one of you, and this is your face - Anton Todorov, who speaks every day on your behalf. We quote it by Anton Todorov: "Boyko, Rosen, Cezzo and the others. " [[GERB lines.]] Why are you offended by this? Look for the problem with you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] One of you thinks you're a gang, and here he described you very nicely. [[GERB lines.]] Second of all, who are you to do a-what are you and say a-what are you?! We are a million Bulgarians. I'm not Cornelia Ninova here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u19	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u20	...these 79 people represent one million Bulgarians. It's us! [[Heckling]] So stop the division, with the hatred and with the opposition of Bulgarians against Bulgarians, because one million is represented by the BSP for Bulgaria and one million by GERB. Everyone here represents our countrymen, and that's us, that's you. [[Noise and lines.]] Third, the pictures with the animals of, what you called it: a parliamentary model. It's already been proven: you killed people's animals for no reason, and that's a crime. We will take responsibility for you as far as and as far as we can by all legal means. We did it in Bulgarian courts and prosecutors, now we do it in European courts. You committed a crime against the Bulgarian owners of these animals and your photo attacks with them will not wash this guilt, this crime from your face. And I'm telling you, from the first day to the last day, we're gonna be standing next to these people. We will defend their rights by all legal means and you will get the responsibility for this action not only here but also in Europe! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Mr. Rashidov, culture, education are the basis of every national identity. If we do not keep this for the Bulgarian people, we have not done anything. Treat all those who contribute to this with respect. You are not the only artist in Bulgaria. They are thousands, and it doesn't matter if it was during the time of Oresharski, whether in the time of Borisov, these are Bulgarians who gave their education, work, life, professionalism for the most sacred culture and national identity of Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do not divide these people, because if something will save us, it will be the work of these people, the preservation of this culture and the spiritual value of Bulgaria, which you also reach out to from time to time, if we have to say it. Who told you that gender ideology and the Istanbul Convention is part of Bulgarian culture and spirituality, for example, so you tried to replace it?! [[Heckling]] But let's not go into these party attacks because I told you yesterday: we care about Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] We speak as representatives of BSP, but I speak also as Bulgarian. And that's why we're going where we announced you, because what you're representing here, what you've shown today, is the biggest proof of why you shouldn't be standing here. [[GERB lines.]] Because today, after your thousands of promises, after Svoge, you had to watch the Road Traffic Act here. Now that's politics. Seventeen people you killed, today we had to solve their problem! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u21	Mrs. Ninova, please don't make such accusations! [[Voices: "Ouuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u22	There's no traffic law. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] The law is gone today! Why? Instead of solving people's problems...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u23	Mrs. Ninova, I'm warning you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u24	...instead of fighting corruption in road construction...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u25	Quiet, please! [[Replying and banging on the banks from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u26	...instead of being the place where politics is being made, today we heard an apogee of an artist about his personal contribution to the development of Bulgaria. We value it, we respect it, but it's not the only one, and it's not the place to do it. This is the place to make politics for people! And today we had to solve the problem with the Road Traffic Act, so there wouldn't be any more. Instead of this?! [[Removes the materials given by the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Well, say this Parliament and this majority has not exhausted its capacity to manage Bulgaria... [[Strong noise and lines, banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u27	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u28	...to solve people's problems and stand here in the name of some national sovereignty and unity?! He's obviously run out of it! That's why, dear Bulgarians... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u29	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u30	...we come to you to seek the solution of your problems, not the personal ego of one or another MP. Thank you for your attention. [[(Noise, lines and shouts by GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u31	Ms. Nino, given your statement, you have charged an entire parliamentary group and a million and a hundred voters, so I am forced to punish you under art. 156, p. 2 with a note. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]] Personal explanation or manner of conduct? Here you are, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u32	There's no personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u33	It's the way it is! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u34	Madam President, I have had one remark in the manner of conduct to prevent this type of behaviour in this Chamber. I didn't have that attitude. I just read a statement about what we did during a government and what useful people should do if they want to be constructive. I told them to plant at least one tree and stop talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u35	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Rashidov, let me be the remark!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u36	From this point on, there was a serious insult, a parliamentary group accused as murderers. It's unacceptable! Stop riding on people's pain. Stop! Stop taking pictures with sick and debilitating people. Who in Bulgaria does not regret the death of these 17 people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u37	To me, Mr. Rashidov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u38	Are you the only one who mourns from morning to night?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're all suffering. Be united and unite around this. And as for not being the only one. Yeah, the world's full, it's not Roland Garros, first and second. Art is a place where there are pleiades, very large and talented...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u39	To me, Mr. Rashidov, the remark!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u40	There's one thing I'd like to make a note of. Give examples when you are in session. I beg you very much when you talk about previous ones. Now take a look at what I am giving you is not offensive, but what I have done as Minister of GERB. Take a good look at these magazines... [[Shows them.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u41	To me, give it to me. Yes, thank you. [[Noise, laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u42	I will ask you, too, very please: do a check by Georgi Yordanov so far can you see something done by anyone to come and declare it? Please give me an example of what has been done and I will agree with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u44	You're welcome to join us. [[Sends materials to the Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u45	Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u46	I'm not a murderer, Mrs. Ninova, and I'm not a thief! And Anton Todorov is a free man, and he can say whatever he wants, but you have no right as a leader to say whatever you want, but whatever you need to say! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. In the manner of holding Mr. Stoynev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, you have allowed disorder in the Chamber, which shows that you are unable to conduct this meeting. I believe that the slightest thing is for you to leave this room yourself, because, in fact, you have caused chaos. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] At the same time, you cannot hold a plenary session. Moreover, you have allowed a Member of the National Assembly to highlight here his achievements, which are not only his achievements, but everyone, anyway, to speak only about himself, because apparently GERB has nothing else to show. But let's not forget all these projects were linked to a lot of commissions and it wasn't a coincidence that the gallery leaked! It wasn't a coincidence!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u49	To me, Mr. Stoinev, in the manner of conduct! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u50	So when there is no control over the way asphalt is placed, when there is no control, when the Trade Register fails, all of this, ladies and gentlemen, is associated with a lack of control, because there must be the necessary commissions. You, Madam President, are unable to hold this meeting, so please leave! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u51	Mr. Stoynev, I couldn't have known what was in the declaration, and the declaration is a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, and I can't counteract that. [[Noise and lines.]] Each parliamentary group shall have the right to express its opinion within 10 minutes. I'm not gonna leave the meeting, I'm gonna continue to lead! [[Laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]] There are no new requests for the period 27 July 2018. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Written answers from: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on two issues from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Bürhan Abase; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Zapreyan Yankov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will be the first to respond to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov on the signing of a European intervention initiative. Here you are, Mr. Vitanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u52	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! On 1 March 2017, the President of the European Commission published and presented his White Paper with five options for the future of the European Union. This document was followed, if I am not mistaken, on June 7th by a document called the Document for reflection on the future of European defence presented by Federica Mogherini, which also included three options for the future of common European defence. As a matter of fact, these documents did not have that much interest on the part of the government. We didn't see any debate or analysis on them. They had to bring clarity to the future of the European Union, but it was as if they gave impetus to deepening the division processes in Europe of the so-called core and periphery. It is in this context that in June 2018 a European intervention initiative was set up on the initiative of French President Macron, which is a common defence project between 10 European countries outside NATO and the European Union's common security and defence policy. This French initiative envisions the establishment of a permanent secretariat under the auspices of the French Armed Forces, and the aim of this Union is to build common capabilities and formations to act jointly in missions, alone or within NATO and the European Union. My question to you, Minister, is: does the Ministry of Defence believe that Bulgaria has a strategic interest in the initiative and is it a proactive approach to its accession to it? And, of course, if so, how will this interaction take place between this new initiative, the so-called PESCO and NATO? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vitanov! First, allow me, on the eve of a big Bulgarian national holiday to congratulate you with the celebration of the United and, thinking of the United, it is still good for each of us to actually think about what we are doing in the National Assembly and as politicians, does it lead to a united nation, or does it lead to division? However, please welcome the upcoming holiday! To your question, Mr. Vitanov. On 25 June 2018, in Luxembourg, the ministers of defence of France, Germany, Belgium, Great Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands, Estonia, Spain and Portugal signed a letter of intent that started, as you mentioned, the initiative of French President Macron This is a practical step in the plan to implement the objectives set out in the strategic defence review for France's national security for 2017. However, there is a key priority given to crisis management and the fight against terrorism in the countries of North and North Africa. That's the top priority. I would like to emphasise that Bulgaria's active participation in the NATO collective defence system and the European Union's common security and defence policy is a matter of strategic importance for our national security. In this respect, in art. 159 of the updated National Security Strategy Bulgaria defines as its main priority in defence policy the implementation of the agreed military and civilian objectives of NATO capabilities and the relevant projects and initiatives to build defence capabilities of the European Union, including through permanent structural cooperation and the European Defence Fund. Shared responsibility for common security within the framework of a mission to support international peace and security, our armed forces in 2017 participated in eight missions and operations abroad with over 900 troops. This, compared to the previous year, is an approximately 20% increase and represents, i.e. illustrates our policy for participation in such initiatives. All this has cost our country serious efforts and resources. Making additional concrete commitments, such as the initiative you are asking me about, would jeopardise the implementation of our country's priority strategic goals due to the need to redistribute our already limited financial resources for defence. In addition, the majority of the formations of our armed forces are already declared to NATO response forces, by the European Union battle groups, are preparing to participate or are deployed in NATO and European Union missions and operations abroad. Making hasty commitments to join this or other similar initiatives relating to participation in operations and especially those of an expeditional nature, without serious operational and resource analysis, would violate a fundamental principle of defence planning. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European intervention initiative is still just a political forum where ideas are being discussed, and this initiative is yet to develop and acquire more concrete dimensions. The questions you ask are really important and interesting. You say that there has been no serious debate on these initiatives, and such a debate can also be initiated in the Defence Committee. I think the question you are asking me requires the following answer: Bulgaria is currently abstaining from joining this intention of these several European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u55	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Minister, thank you for your specific answer in the last sentence it was sufficiently meaningful, but it seems to me that the lack of resources should be the main argument in Bulgaria's refusal to join this initiative. Rather, I expected, Mr. Minister, to hear some analysis from the Ministry of Defense on the benefits and potential minuses of our possible participation in this initiative, because its creation is not in itself a single act. I wanted to know, do you think, is this initiative helping or undermining NATO's actions? Is the fact that it is not part of PESCO positive or negative because there is also disagreement between the parties in this initiative? For example, according to France, this initiative is useful because it will shorten the response time, but Germany claims that it will violate European political cohesion. I believe that a potential participation by Bulgaria should be discussed and there should be more serious arguments for making the final decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vitanov, you are absolutely right, but the regulation according to the Rules is three minutes for an answer. Do not expect and you cannot expect in three minutes to develop the analysis prepared by the Defense Policy Directorate in the Ministry of Defence. But I'm saying it again. I'm saying it clearly. Firstly, we consider all initiatives related to the European Union's defence initiatives as part of and as additional steps of NATO and not as something separate. Secondly, I have given you the arguments why we are still holding back from joining or taking an official position. Third, as I told you at the beginning, this is a letter of intent. You very rightly noted the countries themselves who signed this letter of intent have different opinions, those views. Let this idea grow a little more! This does not prevent this matter from being discussed in the Defence Committee where it belongs. It is not for plenary, at least at this stage of its development as a European initiative. Welcome to the Defence Committee, let your colleagues initiate it.. This issue can be addressed, it can be discussed and then there will be time to get acquainted with the analysis of our defence policy and comment, and to make proposals and perhaps this would form a faster or more definite Bulgarian position. Thank you for your attention. I wish the rest of my colleagues a good day!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for participating today. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev concerning the control carried out by the customs authorities on imports of fuels. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev, to bring it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The question that I have with Minister Goranov is from May 25 in different circumstances at the moment. I would like to recall several events during these months: a scandal with the Information System of the Customs Agency, a long discussion of the so-called Law on Fuels in this Chamber of the National Assembly. All these questions and a series of journalistic investigations in the media on fuel trade have led me to ask Minister Goranov this question. The specific circumstances are as follows: at the end of last year the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses, which in art. 103c introduces a new requirement for all persons who accept, land, store or export fuels in energy products from ports and customs warehouses to use means of measuring and controlling inputs and exits. In order to bring this bill into effect, it was necessary, respectively, for the Minister of Finance to update Regulation No 1, in which to mention the specific way, how and how to place these measuring instruments and to become binding and reporting with the system of the Customs Agency. On 29 December, you, Minister Goranov, are making changes to this regulation and it is surprising to me: you are giving a grace period until 1 June 2018 for the introduction of these measuring instruments. I believe that in this way you are essentially suspending the bill itself, and that is why my question to you is: what caused and what was needed to be given this grace period, why was this grace period given, and I would like to know what quantities and which ports or at which points of Bulgaria were imported during this period during which remote reading meters tied to the Customs Agency were not operating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I will start from there that it is far-reaching to claim that the Law is suspended. At least it provides for this possible deadline to apply full automatic control of imports. From 1 January 2018 until compliance with art. 103c, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, but as it says, no later than 1 June 2018, the control of the measurement of the input or output of energy products and liquid fuels in the ports in Ruse, Varna and Burgas is determined by an independent inspection organisation holding the relevant accreditations in the presence of customs and police officers. The control activities shall be carried out in the following order: prior to the arrival of the vessel and upon request of incoming supply controls, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall be notified. In the case of vessels carrying liquid energy products, complete documentary control of cargo manifests and all other documents shall be carried out in order to establish the quantity and type of fuel in the cargo tanks. The master of the vessel shall present a plan of Cargo which shall be compared in the declared quantities of fuels. A physical check shall be carried out on all cargo tanks and shall be carried out by the independent inspection organisation in the presence of a customs officer to establish the quantities of energy products available therein. The excise goods in the cargo tanks shall be measured on-site density by comparing the results with those described in the documents, in addition taking samples for laboratory analysis from each tank. After issuing an analysis certificate from the independent inspection organisation for the goods, a customs declaration shall be accepted and the unloading of the energy products shall begin after securing the claims for the goods. In addition, the master shall declare the type and stock in the other tanks of the ship other than tanks for the goods, such as fuel tanks, ballast tanks, waste water tanks and others, physically controlling all tanks. Upon completion of the landing of the vessel, a re-check shall be carried out by the customs officers and a re-checking of the service in the presence of a customs officer. All control actions carried out shall be documented by protocols and signed by the persons present in the verification, and a photograph of the course of the checks concerned shall also be applied. In relation to the above, I provide you with summary information on the liquid fuels introduced into the territory of the country for the period from 1 January 2018 to 28 August 2018 through ports falling within the scope of art. 108c of the Law. Terminal for basic oils in customs Varna: - Terminal for base oils PRM, port and customs warehouse with really unloaded 57 040 tonnes of gas oil, 10 200 tonnes of base oil; - 26 858 tonnes of fatty acid monoalkyl esters have been unloaded at the port of Varna (West), FAME (FAME) biodiesel operating until 1 June 2018; - Port terminal - Varna Ferrybot complex, to which 1877 tonnes of base oil are unloaded. On the territory of customs Burgas: - Port of Burgas "Center with really unloaded 41 334 tonnes of LPG liquefied petroleum gas and 167 604 tons of gas; On Customs Ruse: - Port Port Bulmarket, with really unloaded 12 598 tonnes of LPG liquefied petroleum gas and 2009 tons of gas. With regard to the question raised about the reason for the extension of the deadline in Ordinance No H-1 by six months, it should be borne in mind that, pursuant to § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, it is determined that, from 1 January this year, until the date of compliance with the requirements of the Law, but no later than 1 June 2018, the persons referred to in art. 103c, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses submit data on the introduced and derived quantity of excise goods in order determined by the Minister of Finance, according to art. 2 and para. Art. 4 of art. 103a of the ZDS. As I pointed out at the outset, in accordance with the legal delegation and the provision of § 16 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Ordinance on the amendment and supplement of the Ordinance No H-1, it provides that from 1 January 2018 until the date of compliance, but not later than 1 June 2018, the measurement of the quantity of excise goods introduced and exported shall be determined by an independent inspection organisation holding the relevant accreditation in the presence of customs officials for which a protocol is drawn up. In addition to the foregoing, in the course of the public consultations carried out in relation to the amendments made to Regulation No H-1, it was found in a firm way that persons needed a longer period of time to comply with the requirements of the Law. This is apparent from the published reference to the proposals, opinions and objections received when publishing the website of the Ministry of Finance. For better or worse, at the time of the answer, which comes a few months after the question is asked, everything is already aligned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u63	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with your last sentence, because if there is any point in parliamentary control, and of course it makes sense, it is really the answer to such important questions in society. I hope that these words of yours reflect the actual state and the work of the revenue agencies that everything is already well and the provisions of the Law have been fulfilled. One of the big battles that we have to fight with smuggling starts at the entrance of our country there should be measured all quantities, independent ports, customs warehouses, tax warehouses and so on. Now, of course, I'm going to run an analysis of the data you took out. At the moment, there is no way to compare them with previous periods of time. I would like to make such an analysis in order to see from some special places in Varna, in Burgas to see what are the volumes comparable to other periods of the year, to see if this exception in the Regulation has ultimately helped one operator or another. My understanding is that any Bulgarian government must fight smuggling. I hope you, as Minister and your government, are sincere in this struggle. You declare it all the time, you say it all the time. You understand that smuggling, that in addition to damaging the budget, it has an extremely negative impact on the business environment, because it gives an advantage to some subjects, to some players, at the expense of other players. And sometimes with these types of administrative acts, with these types of management decisions, we can rearrange an entire sector. I really want to, and I hope this doesn't happen in our country. From us you can expect that we will follow this sector very closely and everything that is happening will be placed on the table because we are obliged to do so in front of the Bulgarian citizens who sent us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister? You're not gonna use the back. Thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with the answers of the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on regulatory regulation of support by the personal assistant to the children and students in the educational institutions. Mrs. Simeonova, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Valchev! The Preschool and School Education Act provides for additional support for children and students with special educational needs to be implemented by pedagogical advisors, psychologists, logos, resource teacher, social worker, somewhere and teacher's assistant. Recently, research has been more and more common, showing that with certain personal support for children with special educational needs, they have much better skills, even better than those of their peers. Therefore, more and more often the parents of the children with special educational needs want to have, so we call it, an escort or a personal assistant of the child in the educational institution itself. Therefore, they seek such a person and perhaps some educational institutions enter the parents themselves or want to enter a person referred to by them, one with whom the child has a trust relationship with him and he has a certain authority. However, they say that when they find such a person, they start looking for a kindergarten or a school where that can be allowed. On the other hand, there are fellow teachers and directors who also believe that it is necessary for certain children with special educational needs to have such an escort or personal assistant at school. However, since such a personal assistant or chaperone is not regulated, there are a number of contradictions between parents, teachers and other participants in the educational process. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education on the regulation of additional support by a personal assistant or chaperone to children with special educational needs in educational institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, with the entry into force of the Law on pre-school and school education, inclusive education is presented as a priority of education policy. You can't help but see that accent in the Law. The philosophy of inclusive education enables educational institutions to take the initiative, responsibility and guidance for its implementation on their own. This means that individual support is the responsibility of kindergartens and schools and is provided not only for children and students with special educational needs but for all children and students. The Preschool and School Education Act regulates opportunities for the introduction and development of inclusive education aimed at taking into account the educational needs of all children and students to provide additional support for the personal development of those with special educational needs, at risk, with prominent gifts, with chronic diseases. The support for personal development shall be applied in accordance with the individual needs of each child and student, and for the implementation of the activity of general and additional support in kindergartens and schools shall work as a psychologist or pedagogical advisor, logodist, social worker and resource teachers, as well as other specialists as appropriate. The Law provides a regulation for the appointment of a teacher's assistant in kindergartens and school. The teacher's assistant is a person who is not a pedagogical specialist within the meaning of the Law on pre-school and school education, but before taking up the job he is going through training organised by the relevant regional centre for supporting the process of inclusive education in the field, according to the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. The teacher's assistant is provided in more than three children or students with special educational needs in a group in kindergarten or in a class at the school and when children and students have complex needs due to emotional behavioral problems in autistic spectrum disorder or other damage. The Director of kindergarten or school may appoint an assistant to the teacher when defined in the plan for support of the child or student on a proposal from the team to support personal development. On the other hand, under the National Program, assistants of disabled people from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy can be revealed a personal assistant position. The programme is designed to overcome the insufficient development of alternative services and care for disabled children and to help their families. Many of the children and students with special educational needs who are trained in the system of preschool and school education have personal assistants provided by this program. Having regard to the powers of directors of educational institutions to conclude contracts with specialists which are necessary to provide a supportive environment for children and students with special educational needs, so as to respect the principles of equal access to quality education for the inclusion of each child and each student in his best interest. It is a fact that this concept is realized: with the adopted standard for inclusive education; and with the increase in funds for inclusive education; and with the budget for 2018. These funds have been increased, and this must be a continuing policy in the coming years. There is no doubt that these children need personal support. What I understand from your question is that there is a deficit regarding an external escort system. We've never been asked that question before. If that is the case, I personally do not see any obstacle to this being done, to supplement the legal framework under the specific Ordinance on Inclusive Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u69	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I raised this issue after numerous meetings with parents, teachers and especially after I received the opinion of the Association for the Protection of the Rights of People with Autism in Bulgaria on the need for changes in the provision of additional support for children and students with special educational needs. That is precisely the point that it is not regulated in what way the child's personal companion should enter school. Colleague directors and teachers are worried about this because it still needs to be regulated to have the relevant responsibilities and requirements for this person who will also be present in school hours. Maybe he should be part of the child's personal support team, have his responsibilities? The requirement of parents is what they have put in place and what I will provide you, even they do not want the pay from the school itself, but the desire is for them to define the person to do this. Yet he must meet certain conditions in order to enter school, the idea being that he should also help in the classes, in addition to helping, if necessary, and when moving the child and the child to participate in extracurricular events, i.e., it is believed that if there is such personal support, it will be for the benefit of the children and we are looking for a way to be regulated in order to be useful to them. As they raise many questions, I allow myself to give you the opinion of the Association for the Protection of the Rights of People with Autism in Bulgaria because there are many valuable proposals in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Dear Minister? You're not gonna use the back. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MPs Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Stoyan Mirchev about the role and activity of the public councils in schools and kindergartens. Mrs. Simeonova, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, dear Minister! Under the Preschool and School Education Act, according to art. 265, para. 1, in order to create conditions for active and democratically functioning communities in each kindergarten and each school, a public council shall be established. The public council is a body to support the development of kindergarten and school and to control their governance. Public councils have been functioning for two years and it is quite normal to ask questions. The Law on pre-school and school education, as well as the Rules on their establishment, contains many responsibilities, namely: adopt a strategy for the development of the school; participate in the work of the pedagogical council; propose policies and measures for the quality of education; give an opinion on the distribution of the budget; agree the school curriculum; participate with representatives in the selection of a director and so on. In other words, there are extremely many responsibilities. The questions that we want to put now and which we are put at the numerous meetings that we have are regarding: firstly, is there no danger that these public councils will enter certain places people who are not competent enough in terms of education? Is there any possibility, especially in small towns, that there are people with such expertise? How much is the public council duplicated with the functions that the school board has? Our question is: has an analysis been done in the Ministry of Education and Science on the effectiveness of the activities of public councils? Are there any changes to the Law on pre-school and school education in the section on public councils, respectively, in the Rules of Procedure? After all, are they fulfilling their role, or are they in danger of becoming some paper structures that simply comply with the Law without having their meaning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Valchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Simeonova! The Ministry is in constant interaction with the institutions of the education system, analyzes the views and suggestions of participants in the educational process, as well as stakeholders on the implementation of the regulations. A working group of experts and representatives of schools and kindergartens from different regions of the country was formed in the Ministry, including members of the public councils to discuss their functioning. The working group is working on a project to amend and supplement the Rules on the structure and operation of public councils to kindergartens and schools. Some of the changes were proposed by representatives of the public councils in relation to the provisions governing the determination of the composition, activity and organisation of the work of the public council. The continuation of the activities of the group is dictated by the established need for other changes in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the public councils. The Ministry of Education and Science shall take the above-mentioned actions, led by the aspiration for changes to the legal act to indicate a positive impact on the development of kindergartens and schools in the pre-school and school education system, which will be able to effectively carry out their activities on the basis of the principle of autonomy for the conduct of educational policies. Regarding your other specific questions, there is no doubt that the parents are an interested party. Perhaps one of the most interested together with the teachers in order to make children aware, capable, creative, good people. Parents and teachers are the main partners in the training and upbringing of children and they must participate. Their opinion must be heard. Yes, the fact is that public councils are new, the fact is that somewhere they were met with resistance, but the fact is also that schools that best work with parents best interact achieve better educational results under equal conditions. This interaction is mandatory. The fact is also that sometimes their interests are contradictory. It is a matter of balance to find, including taking into account their opinion, the correct solution. If you look at the Staff Regulations, art. 269, you will see that there is almost no power that is exclusively given to public councils. They give an opinion, give recommendations, agree, without having the form of a veto, which means that their opinion should be taken into account, to take into account the opinions of the parents. This is useful and it implies that the community of interested parties represent the owner of the society. It's not the school that owns it. It's the community. It is represented by the pedagogical community, represented by the parents, is also represented by the legitimately elected institutions. These are basically the main interested parties and they are represented in the selection of directors, they are also represented in the attestation. Yes, of course, we should always take note and be cautious that this is an unprofessional interested party. When we are talking about professional issues, purely pedagogical issues regarding public councils, they must have an additional opinion, but the main opinion to be of the pedagogical community, of the pedagogical council. That answers your question. Is there no danger of incompetent people involved? Yes, there is danger. The fact that we have parents who can't get them to exercise their duty of education for children and to participate in public councils is even more difficult. We have schools and kindergartens where we have a full concentration of such parents and there public councils function very difficultly. It's a fact! It is the same in smaller schools where fewer parents have additional civic energy to participate in the public council of the school. Did you duplicate the board? No, because the board is not based on the principle of legitimate representation of parents. At a rural school we saw that the board was the former village mayor, former parents, former director. None of them currently represent anyone related to the school. The board may be five people who have been elected in a thousand nine hundred ninety and some year, and therefore we cannot ask them to represent the parents. While in public councils we have this principle of choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u75	Thank you, Minister Valchev. For a line, Mrs. Nencheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Minister! We're not satisfied with the answer you gave. You yourselves know that two years under the new Law, which was introduced for preschool and school education, at the very beginning neither the pedagogical collectives nor the directors nor the parents were clear the procedure for selecting public councils. So many of the selection processes were in complete chaos at the very beginning and were compromised. And so far, many parents do not know their authority, nor do they know their duties in public councils, which does not contribute to good work in schools. On this occasion, you all know very well that our parliamentary group has been holding meetings in the districts with teachers' collectives, directors, parents and representatives of the public councils for months. At one such meeting in Karlovo municipality we were presented with an opinion of the professional community of the Primary School of General Kartsov. The village of Hristo Danovo, Karlovo Municipality, on issues and problems related to the regulations in the system of school and pre-school education. I must give you this opinion because you will also have to answer these questions at your upcoming meeting in Karlovo on September 7th. In addition to hearing the praises under the Law, I advise you to listen especially to the burdens and sufferings of the teaching community, to them being heard by your experts who are working on the legal framework so that we do not make the process of education difficult, especially now, at the beginning of the new school year. I hope that this working group, which you mentioned, working on the legal framework, will have final results very soon, because there remains the question of how long this group will work and who will this extension of this process help in this situation? I'm giving you your opinion, I hope you'll prepare for it. Thank you. [[Sends him his opinion.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u77	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u78	Thank you for completing the questions you have asked. On the first question, should there be public advice or should they be absent, should parents be represented? Yeah, they should definitely be there. We need this interaction, we need parents' participation in decision-making at school level, we need to build effective communities around schools. On the second question, how can we improve this organization? The Rules of Procedure of the Public Council are required to be published, all rules to be published, all procedures to be published in advance, all parents to be notified of the meetings at which their representatives will be elected. Of course, we cannot guarantee that in all 4,300 educational institutions with kindergartens this will always happen in the best way, but, you know, every process at the beginning is difficult. I am convinced that over time public councils will be effective bodies in more and more schools. I myself try to talk to as many representatives of the educational community as possible. Last school year, I visited 24 districts and over 40 municipalities. I'll hear what's in Karlovo. The meetings were by no means protocol. Each one of them was working, and the more important thing is to hear the opinion of those who say. We should not be tempted to use the line of opposition between parents and teachers, but rather talk about the partnership between them. We should not, of course, overshadow our trust in public councils that they can give us the best opinion on purely professional matters, but parental participation is mandatory, especially when it comes to topics related to the organisation of the learning process, the organisation of time and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Education Mr. Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Dear colleagues, Minister Neno Dimov will be a little late. He'll be here after 11:00 and he'll answer the questions. That's why we're continuing with Minister Nankov. When Minister Neno Dimov comes, we will stop with the questions to Minister Nankov and then we will continue. First question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov regarding the danger of road accidents in section III-7003. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I was well reminded by the minister, which to some extent raises some concerns as to the answer to the question, because when the Minister is resigned, will anyone take up the commitment that he will most likely take today? And the topic is extremely important and is in line with what is happening on the roads in Bulgaria at all, and this section is one of the serious problems in the region. I mean, at the time of my admission by citizens, I was asked about a serious danger of traffic accidents in the section of road number III-7003 passing through the village of Golden Levels. During the settlement every day heavy goods vehicles pass at high speed and there is real risk for both the life and health of the residents of the village of Zlatna levels and for the surrounding buildings of strong vibrations. Dear Minister, I have been there passing heavy trucks that carry inert masses of nearby careers, motor vehicles move at extremely high speed and do not decrease in the center of the village. So I ask you to answer me: will you take measures to limit the speed of passing cars and any other measures to avoid accidents that are within your competence............................................................................................. Because that's the kind of area where the most serious problems happen! Don't let it happen that in the future the village of Golden Plains is an arena, God forbid, of bloodshed, because some truck didn't hold the brakes or anything else happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer, Mr. Nankov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, third-class road III-7003 around the ring road Dulovo to the ring road Shumen The road that I quoted, within the range of km 35+7000 to km 36+942 is in the features of the village of Zlatna levels, and at km 36+290 it intersects with third-class road III-2007 Kaspican The end point of the third-class road III-2007 is the point of its intersection with the road that you referred to in your question, which is why the intersection is triclone. For the sections of the two third-class roads passing through the village, the maximum speed of movement of road vehicles in populated areas is valid, which is determined by the road signs placed. It has been signaled with road signs. Their numbers are D11 and D12, respectively for the beginning and end of the location. According to sector data, the road police and third-class road section III-7003 on the territory of the village of Zlatna is not classified as a section with the concentration of accidents. However, under the award by the Road Infrastructure Agency there is currently a preventive repair of the third-class road from km 33+855 to km 49+140, in which the section of the third-class road in the features of the village of Zlatna levels, which you ask the question about. The repair of the section will improve its performance and will ensure greater safety in its use thanks to the measures laid down in the technical project. According to the contract with the contractor, the repair activities totaled just over 8 million. lv. with VAT and their completion is 12 months from the date of start of the works of the site, which is 3 October 2017. One year's implementation period. Subject to the current pace of work, the site will be completed before the specified deadline. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, envisages the introduction of stricter measures in the adoption and commissioning of ready-made roads as quality, respectively the work of acceptance committees. The following measures have been taken to increase the safety of movement: a project has been developed under the award of Kaspican Municipality for the permanent organisation of the movement of the two third-class roads, which I referred to in my response to the characteristics of the village of Zlatna, which is linked to the sector.. Road police.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They are provided for under the technical project and will be implemented after the last layer of asphalt is placed. I can quote at which kilometers: km 36+463 in the area of the village of Zlatna levels and on route III-2007 at km 10+630, again in the land of the village of Zlatna levels, as well as the raised pedestrian path It is designed and will be executed at km 36+222. I will not comment on the draft regulations that we have drawn up and which are currently agreed with the competent institutions related to increased road safety. They are also part of the overall policy, and if they are adopted by the deadline of preparation and adoption of the site, these construction and repair activities will be carried out and construction works will comply with the new requirements of the new regulations, which I have mentioned, we have developed, and are currently in the process of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u84	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The answer you gave really covers largely the requirements that residents in the village of Zlatna set during the meetings and in the reception halls. The only thing we expect from you, subsequently under the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, i.e. the host committee, is to do what is necessary to ensure that the repairs are performed with the necessary quality. Let's not drop the situation that happened on the road near Svoge, because, you see, there are really doubts there. I believe that this committee will do its job in good faith, and I hope that the regulations that you have quoted come into force so that the additional control that needs to be carried out can be carried out and that we can protect people from possible traffic accidents. I don't know if you've been there, but this time it goes through the center of the village, where the biggest movement is. There's the community center, there's the town hall, there's the kids, there's everybody moving, and the trucks are actually going at extremely high speed. We believe that these permanent road elements, which will be provided, will be of the required quality and will deter the high speed of the trucks that pass through the settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? There won't be. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Hairi Sadakov on repair and rehabilitation of road sections in the territory of Rudozem municipality with poor quality of the floors due to the construction of Plovdivtsi Dam. Here you go, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u86	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In 2018, the construction of Plovdivtsi Dam, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, was completed in essence. The same is funded with a loan from the World Bank. In the contract between the World Bank and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively, the contract between the Ministry and the contractor company contains provisions for the restoration of road floors damaged by heavy traffic during the construction of the facility. Three road sections on the territory of Rudozem municipality on road III-8608 Rudozem Also the central street of the town of Rudozem, which is essentially a section of road II-86 Asenovgrad Apart from that, the road section in question is the only possible alternative route to redirect the heavy traffic during the construction of the road of Rudozem city, according to a project for which there is funding under INTERREG V-A Greece, Bulgaria 2014 - 2020 and for which there is currently a procedure for the selection of construction and construction supervision. At the same time, this road section is of extremely poor quality and there is a need to replace street pavement and reformation of a circular intersection. The project is from km 132+962 to km 134+690 and has been commissioned for the development of a technological project of the road maintenance company. The technological project was prepared and sent for coordination to the Institute of Roads at the Road Infrastructure Agency. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: is there any provision in this year to rehabilitate these two road sections, preventative and ongoing repairs and, if there is no, how will the repairs be carried out? What part of them can be financed by the funds provided for the restoration of damaged road floors in the process of construction of Plovdivtsi Dam? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works responded. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sadakov, your question covers sections of the third-class road III-8608 and the second-class road II-86 on the territory of Rudozem municipality. The state of the road is in this form due to the fact that these road sections have not been renovated for nearly 30 years due to a shortage of financial resources, but also from the developments in your question argument. The construction of Plovdivtsi Dam, the depreciation of the road due to the heavy construction equipment that was passing through the road during the construction and installation activities. Only patching on the pavement and urgent repair activities have been performed to ensure passability. The opinion of the experts from the Agency is that for the poor operational state of the roads in these sections, in parallel to the lack of funds, I mentioned, in addition to the repair activities, other factors which I will offer you in writing for the response I have developed. A number of heavy goods vehicles and specialized equipment have passed through the road sections for the construction of the dam. I will also quote the exact numbers to see that there are really objective prerequisites, apart from the lack of repairs for more than 30 years and, of course, the construction of Plovdivtsi Dam. However, for the normal public use in May 2018, repairs were carried out on the floors of the two Republican roads, and cold patching of road surfaces with polymer-modified household emulsion and pressure fractions was performed. However, the activities carried out are not sufficient for the lasting and overall improvement of the state of the road. In the budget of the Agency, there is no financial resource available for 2018 in response specifically to your question, for a complete repair of the two roads due to the limited financial frameworks of the repair programmes and the lack of project documentation for the sites. In the medium and long term, thanks to the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the efforts made to implement the Toll system will allow the collection of sufficient resources for the normal and adequate maintenance of road infrastructure, including both the roads that you have been referring to, which have not been repaired for more than 30 years. A little more information about what should and what will be undertaken in the coming months, submitted by the Ministry's management and the Road Infrastructure Agency. The road III-8006 Rudozem sovezem sovets Plovdivtsi, with a length of 11.5 km, its end is within Plovdivtsi and the site you mentioned, funded by the World Bank. The third-class road connects the Rudozem municipal center with the villages of Vojkova Laka, Birchevo The condition of the third-rate time, I mentioned, is extremely difficult. In recent years, care has been taken to maintain it, but the resource needed for its overall renovation is about BGN 5 million. The second-class road II-86 with a length of 1.730 km has deteriorated characteristics within the town of Rudozem. In order to restore its operational performance at the end of 2016, Regional Road Management Smolyan entrusted the company with the contract for maintenance of Republican roads in the field of development of technological projects for preventive repair. The object's track is divided into two sections of the object not to list the figures, I will provide more detailed information. It is necessary to specify that as the section falls into the urbanised territory of the city, the preventive repair includes the construction of the road lane and leading concrete curbs, the laying of horizontal marking. At this time, the company has not completed the design documentation for both sections and the project is not agreed on roads and bridges. After the final coordination of technological projects by the specialists at the Institute, the documentation will be examined at the Expert Council in the API and will be included in the Programme for the Maintenance of Republican Roads. Apart from this, the possibility will be used as a source of funding, and we have discussed this with you, by the way, from the remainder we have planned for the construction of Plovdivtsi Dam on a loan from the World Bank, we have about a million leva leftovers, which are specifically and deliberately planned to improve the Republican road network, which is defective due to heavy traffic in the construction of the dam, so this resource will also be included in the target budget capital programme of API for 2019 to have a complete solution to the question of rehabilitation of the two road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u89	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I'm letting the minister talk a little bit more because the answers are longer and it's nice to get the maximum information. Here's a line for you, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u90	Dear Minister, thank you for the information I received on the subject. Indeed, the recovery time, not to mention even the restoration, but the repair of these roads, because they have not been repaired very long ago and there we will not be looking for what is the reason for the construction of the dam, at all these are the roads of the state and they must be in normal condition and fit for use by the population. Especially after the active rainfall in recent months, the many waters in the region have violated this pavement extremely much more and it is in an even more miserable state than when I asked you the question. It's really gotten worse. We should expect faster action there. True, within your capabilities, the Ministry, the API, but I expect that there will be faster and more concrete actions both in the center and in the direction of Plovdivtsi Dam, where are the bronchions of Elhovets and everyone else. I hope and believe that you will make a commitment from the position you are taking, your responsibility and your sensitivity to finding a solution in such situations and we will find faster solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. Please, you have two minutes, Mr. Secretary. The answers need to be longer to be able to say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Sadakov, you are absolutely right about what you say, with just one note, one account, one but. The construction activities of the dam have been completed, but it has not been put into operation. Those are the terms of the Treaty with the World Bank. If there are topics that need to be completed until it is put into service, you know there the problems with the Energy Construction Company in powering the treatment plant. That is to say, this must end as an objective prerequisite in order to ensure the resource that I mentioned, on the basis of the rest of the Treaty with the World Bank for Construction, so that they can be aimed at rehabilitating the road. You are right that the colleagues of the Road Infrastructure Agency before the start of the winter season to make maximum efforts to secure once and, secondly, as they say, polymer modified bitumen and with the corresponding speed limit to ensure pass-through safety. However, the overall solution of the road, no matter how fast the colleagues of the Road Infrastructure Agency are going, within this autumn is impossible. Spring 2019 is the objective deadline for both ways of funding to be rehabilitated in full. I am talking about the two road sections, the first-class and second-class. We know on the ΙΙ-86 second-class road, we also have a project of INTERREG Bulgaria. For a small part of it, we finish with the full rehabilitation together with the Greek partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u93	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Sevim Ali concerning the Republican road ΙΙ-208 Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov, within one year for the second consecutive time at the insistence of the residents and the management of the municipality of Rouen to your attention I put an extremely serious issue concerning the Republican road ΙΙΙ-208 Provadia "Daskotna" Aytos, serving both Burgas and Varna region, which is in a very poor operational state with network cracks and deformations with numerous failed sections of the pavement. The road, Mr. Minister, has a very intensive movement due to the fact that the same section is a major artery serving the airlines by citizens and workers of the municipality of Rouen and the municipality of Aytos, appearing as main service and construction staff of hotels, holiday stations, amusement facilities on the Black Sea coast. The insufficient support in recent years by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the associated banquets and drainage ditches has led to the current extremely poor technical condition of the road section under consideration, which is a prerequisite for fatal road crash. At the 56th kilometer of section ΙΙ-208 Provadia, there is a rock tunnel, which is very dangerous and should urgently improve the technical performance of the facility. The tunnel is extremely narrow and the absence of vehicles is impossible. The tunnel is 16 meters, it was cut into a rock nearly a century ago and has never been renovated mainly until now. The facility is located between the villages of Bilka and Dobromir and the local residents, Mr. Minister, are worried about its current unsatisfactory state. In this regard, my question to you is: is there funds available in this year 2018 for the main rehabilitation of the Republican road ΙΙΙ-208 Provadia "Daskotna" Aytos from km 51+130 to km 82+650 in the territorial range of the municipality of Rouen, Burgas, as well as funds for the major repair of a rock tunnel located 56 km from this section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u96	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ali, I am sure that this will be the last time, not that you do not have this right in which you ask a question, because for the previous answer, I will further develop what the Road Infrastructure Agency has undertaken and done, except that it has provided financial resources, which is the most important, how far the procedures for selecting a contractor have reached. As I informed you in the middle of last year, the section of the third-class road ΙΙ-208 was included in the section from km 51+130 to km 82+650 in a prioritized list and was financed under the Operational Programme At that time, the financial resources under the operational programme were exhausted, but during the re-negotiation of some of the sites and accordingly the reduction of the financial resources and the conduct of public procurements, its reduction and the release for new sections was released respectively financial resources and the section you commented on, from the extremely important road... the connection between North and South Bulgaria in its eastern part. The Road Infrastructure Agency will apply for funding to rehabilitate the third-class road in both sections about 33.5 km long, to call it the Provadian Pass respectively. The sections are divided into 29th and 30th. The rock tunnel, which you mentioned, is also included in the repair range at km 56+397. On the project we have some deviation from 56th to 420th kilometers. Once the project proposal is approved, a grant agreement will be concluded, but until we reach it, I will tell you what has been taken as concrete actions during these three months. In order to optimize the processes and in particular the timing of the repairs, the Agency prepared the tender documentation for the selection of a contractor for the construction works of the two sections. The order was announced on 6 July 2018. The deadline for submission of tenders is 10 September 2018. After 10 September 2018. The work of a commission, ranking. It has to end as fast as possible. For this we will all insist, especially you, and therefore the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The estimated value of the 33km stretch is just over 18 million. lv. The documentation for the conduct of a public procurement contract for the selection of construction supervision is also prepared. You know they have to go parallel. There is a technical project prepared that will allow timely and rapid launch of the construction and installation works of the site after conclusion of contracts with the selected contractors. God forbid there'll be any complaints! If there are complaints, it will be postponed, I am convinced, by a few months. I will not go into details about what the Agency has done with the palliative measures within this year on re-repairing part of some of the sections. Small is the value that has been invested, but these are the possibilities.. a little over 50 thousand. lv. for these palliative repairs, but I have mentioned this and I will end this: a financial resource provided under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" - European and national co-financing; public procurement is carried out. If we have to be realistic, 2019 spring is the completion of winter maintenance of the section, the real construction and repair activities will also start, so that the extremely important Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your reply, Mr Minister, but I would like to point out that the question I am putting to your attention for the second time in a row in a year's time in the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly on 1 June 2018, you are giving me an answer, today we are 5 September 2018, that is to say, a little more than three months have passed since the official reply. I am saying an official answer, as such you gave me another June month and I had your assurance that funds will be allocated to repair this road section, for which I thank you on behalf of the residents of the municipality of Aitos and the municipality of Rouen. Once again, we are satisfied with the answer, as the inhabitants of the municipality of Rouen, who most often use this road section, are correct taxpayers to the state and expect the same attitude of the state towards them. We also hope that communication between the institutions, between the ministries, of which you said it was degraded, will be improved, especially communication between the project contractor and supervisor, in order to carry out a nice renovation that meets all the requirements and standards set out in the project. Regarding the rock tunnel between the two villages of Dobromir and Herb, which we mentioned, it was not mainly repaired. Perhaps you, as we receive constant signals that there are falling stones, God forbid, fall stone on a passing vehicle and there is a fatal outcome. Therefore, we hope to take urgent measures both to repair the road section you said and the rock tunnel, which is 16 meters long and located between the two towns of Bilka and Dobromir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, we move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, on a report of the Audit Committee for 2017 for Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u100	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Obviously, the topic of VIK is quite interesting, at least for the clients of VIK Shumen and therefore continue the questions. This is one of the series of questions I am asking you, and I expect, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, in connection with the fact that you are resigned, what will happen from now on, how things will happen, because the findings that not only I do, but also the clients of the company, have already been made by the company that is supervising the water company. The 2017 audit report made extremely severe findings, which in practice show that the water company is decapitalised, its liabilities are 4 million more than the assets. At least that's what it says.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u101	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u102	That's right. The other thing that worries me is that the water company has lost the case under the so-called guaranteed result contract, which will further affect this water company. Since I didn't graduate from Accounting and Control, but with the knowledge of economics that I received during my studies as a lawyer, I can see that in practice this water company is almost in insolvency. It must enter into liquidation. My question is: how will this actual decapitalization of "ViK" affect, evident from the report of the Audit Committee for 2017, the company's ability to apply under Operational Programme "Environment 2014" and in general what is your opinion and the office you are calling about the findings in the report, because they are becoming more and more worried? For 2018, I expect there to be a liquidator, not an auditor, because in practice, this report shows that the water company is in actual bankruptcy. Here from a few current questions, I am now calling you to take some measures. Now I don't know what's going to happen there?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are absolutely right that everything is here. At the moment, I'm answering your questions with all the conditionalities as a resigning minister. I am convinced that the management of the Ministry, as they say, and then the management will not allow itself to stop some of the policies that are optimal, which are also socially significant, as was the previous answer to the question of the road. It would hardly terminate a public procurement contract and provide in the absence of funding, and could optimize some of the policies related to some of the processes that you refer to in your question. I will not read the answer that is prepared to me specifically for the company. I will just mention that there are no problems to apply. I will mention what action has been taken. Especially for Shumen, I could say that the current management of the management of the water company failed in fullness to deal with the inherited problems. You know when the problems in financial and accounting and special financial and economic plan of the water company started. You mentioned yourself a contract with a guaranteed result. Personally, I believe that even more efforts had to be made to overcome these problems. This is my personal opinion.. I had to make even more efforts to overcome these problems, which are inherited back in time. At the moment, unfortunately, they are not resolved in fullness. But I mentioned, this will not prevent applying under the future Operational Program "Environment" by the water operator. You know, we have a business plan prepared. The approved and approved new prices for the regulatory period are expected to have a positive impact on long-term results. We have signed a 15-year contract with the Water and Water Association, together with the specific commitments to the water and water investment operator in the water infrastructure. Apart from that, in order to obtain cash resources to repay other overdue liabilities such as those for electric power. energy, the company has taken action and is in a procedure for selecting a banking institution to conclude a bank loan contract and debt to creditors. It is still too early at this stage to be able to draw firm conclusions about the future of the company. The company is absolutely not bankrupt! Absolutely! It has its vitality in financial and economic terms, and I am convinced that with the future project that will be implemented in the medium term, the company will perhaps start with a really better management, again answering correctly to your question, not just to realise a loss on an annual basis, we know from what, not to quote the figures, but to start holding back its financial positions. And in the long term to go to profit, but this is not the only goal in front of a water operator. The main objective is to provide a better and more quality service for users of the water services in the territory of Shumen region. So with better management, I repeat once again, I try, because it has its positive prospects for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u106	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! You make these findings nice, but I say that the task of a water company is not to fail, it is not to continuously increase the cost of water, the service it provides to its customers, because neither the quality of water nor the quality of the service are at the required level. Unfortunately, no measures were taken for months. I personally doubt and wonder who this financial institution will be, which will give the necessary loan to co-finance this extremely large project, and the funding amount is not at all small, given that the water company has more obligations than its assets, provided that it has already been convicted and will owe millions more for a contract that we have learned from a previous reply that it is in the prosecution. You, indeed, are resigned, but in addition to taking on an obligation here, from the tribune by leaving, in large letters, with a black flumaster or with some color, to leave your successor a letter to your successor. Right now, the problems there are going at a head speed and they're not getting better. Nothing happens, nor does the quality of water change, every winter there comes out water that is not good for washing, it is not good for bathing, and you said that with the increase in the cost of water it will have the necessary effect. In the business plan itself, in which the water company is recorded and requested an increase in water price, it is not written that this increase will go for the investment in this project, which will be realized for a water treatment plant and replacement of the water supply, but no order is recorded. Currently the KEWRC has entered an emergency check for serious violations there, fraud with water meters and so on. I don't know if you're aware of this. I don't know what else needs to happen there, Minister. Please, really, when a change happens, because it is not clear that you can stay, I do not know, it is not clear from your parliamentary group what will happen, but take urgent measures and say, if there is an heir, go in there and fix things. Just can't wait! Find out! I say this on behalf of the citizens of Shumen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, there is only one thing I cannot agree with: words such as "nothing," "nothing" and so on, are not correct. You know very well what measures have been taken and, in your previous questions, the answers have been directed precisely at the measures that I sincerely admitted to the fact that maybe they were not the appropriate measures, perhaps at the moment they were unable to contribute to the financial stabilisation of the company. Again, without taking back time, you know when these huge obligations were generated and since when were the prerequisites set for 2012 and 2013. Apart from that, with regard to the future project financed under the Operational Programme "Environment" and I also disagree. It will solve much of the problems in the technical operational state, including with the quality of drinking water, one of the huge problems of Sumerians. After all, we are talking at a new drinking water treatment plant at the Dam of Ticha.................. to replace the water supply and from now on the main role of the management of the water supply company.. Shumen is to ensure the financial stability of the company, not so much the technical service. With regard to the subject of liabilities against existing assets, you know when and why, without having any hindrances, there is no problem in this, the water companies as operators, as commercial companies roughly speaking, have lost their share of the assets, because with the changes in the Water Act something extremely important and as a European approach and as a reform in the water sector, these assets have become public property, have been removed from the assets of the operators' commercial companies and have become public government, you know, and public municipal property. In other words, even stronger asset protection, since companies are of a public nature, there is nothing wrong with taking the assets out of their balance sheets and being transferred to the State. This is the logic to be corresponding, put in quotes.. to be decapitalised and the obligations of some companies .... is not the only water supply.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We already have practice, and we have other types of bets on commercial financial institutions -- specifically banking ones -- so I don't have that much concern about future credit. It's not always the credits when they're deprived of reforms and the way the management of a similar operator's management is a panacea, they solve all the problems, so maybe we grade them. Better management, better management, of course, fresh financial injection with the necessary reforms of the company and the maximum rapid implementation of the Operational Programme Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u110	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, a procedure in the manner in which a written reply has been received by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Madam President, I ask you very much, I return this answer because it does not answer, or what is written in it does not answer the specific questions that we have addressed to the Minister, who I do not know is now resigned, is he in a semi-recruitment, what is it, it does not matter? It is a question which you will decide in the parliamentary group and majority. For example, if the first question transfers us where we could find the information instead of answering it, the second question is somehow answered, to the third, fourth and fifth no answers at all. I would ask you to return this answer to the Ministry and any minister to be the owner of this ministry, to be so good at answering the questions and not to try to stall, because this information is sensitive to the concession of Plovdiv Airport and anything that raises doubts in the public opinion should receive its clarification, given even the upcoming concession at Sofia airport, it is good to clarify and transparent these processes. Once again, I ask you to return this answer in order for it to be done as it is due and to receive just as specific answers as the specific questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I will inform Minister Moskovski about the fact that you find the answer incomplete, and I will ask that it be answered properly in the corresponding completeness. [[Mister Neno Dimov enters the hall.]] Colleagues, as I announced earlier, upon the arrival of Minister Neno Dimov we will cut off the questions to Minister Nankov and then continue. Minister Neno Dimov will now respond to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning the cut down of 44 walnut trees in the municipality of Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u112	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, I am obviously the only one asking questions, but the question is not insignificant because it concerns cutting off a protected species. Municipality of Shumen, with the consent of RIEW, Shoumen, cut 44 pecan trees, located on the road town of Shumen. As a result of these actions, Mr. Minister, a strong public discontent arose and a public discussion followed, which was quite serious about the legality and appropriateness of the actions of the municipal administration. Please answer me: are all the legal requirements for the permission of the RIEWs met, Shumen, for the cutting down of the trees and especially the intended protection under the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property? This is a law that they may not know, but it is written in a special order for removing, cutting down walnut trees. Whatever this law is, it operates in the Republic of Bulgaria, and its violation should accordingly lead to the necessary sanctions. What motives did these people see allowed to cut down these trees? Who were those trees bothering? Are there any violations of the issue of this permit, because if this thing becomes a tradition and some foundation for future cutting of trees, because from now on each one can refer to the decision of the RIEW Shumen, and massally cut off protected species? This is the most disturbing, because you can create a trend for the future to use this thing, so I want to hear from you, did the necessary check be done? Is there any reason for such a permit to be issued and for the public to ultimately know why these trees were cut down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, by letter dated 26 June 2018, the mayor of Shumen Municipality sent an opinion to the Director of the RIEW Shumen on the need for EIA, presenting: a report by the mayor of the village of Maras, a constant protocol of a review on 2 April 2018 and an offer for removal of trees on a main road from the town of Shumen to the village of Marash, in which the company proposed, at its expense, to afforestate with 100 saplings. It is clear from the submitted statement by the municipality of Shumen that the Commission during the verification found that 46 pieces were available on the main road, which were irrecoverably damaged, creating prerequisites for road accidents, therefore their removal is necessary. According to the opinion of the Regional Inspectorate in Shumen of 27 June 2018, the activity of afforestation and afforestation is included in Annex 2 of the Environmental Protection Act and is subject to assessment of the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment only if it is intended to change the purpose of the land. According to the submitted documentation from Shumen Municipality, the removal of walnut trees along the main road town of Shumen, the village of Marash and the planting of saplings is not related to a change in the purpose of the land, which is why the Director of RIEW Shumen correctly stated that there is no basis for carrying out a procedure under Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection, RIEW Shumen, in his opinion he also pronounced in respect of the Biodiversity Act and the Law on Protected Areas. The specified location of the trees shall be without prejudice to protected areas of the Natura 2000 network and protected areas. On the main road the town of Shumen is not declared centuries old or remarkable trees, announced by the order of Chapter 5 of the Biodiversity Act. In relation to the above mentioned RIEW, Shumen has complied with all the legal requirements that are in the competence of the Inspection. As regards whether the intended protection under the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Property has been respected, the Ministry of Environment and Water could not rule, since according to art. 8 of this law, management and control are of the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, mayors of municipalities, districts and mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u116	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I have listened carefully to your answer.... obviously found all ways to be sucked out of the fingers one such permission from your subordinate structure in Shumen. First of all, what impressed me is that there is a pre-elected artist and it is decided to cut down these trees. At some point, the Inspection decides that this thing is not a problem, and decides that these trees are a danger to the movement and are unfit. Believe me, I pass almost every day from there when I am in the area, and neither these trees have been permanently damaged, nor have they created any danger to the movement. The road is a straight stretch for two or three kilometers, which, if there is really a danger to traffic, must be for some sober driver who can't keep the car in the road. I don't see how these walnuts created a danger to the movement. Here someone has sucked some solution out of their fingers so that they can be cut off, you said not 44, but 46, because my information, the one we discussed, is about 44 walnut trees that are protected species. I mean, they weren't like that, they weren't protected trees, they weren't in a protected area. Under the Biodiversity Act, the walnut trees themselves are protected species, right? At the moment you are reading the opinion of your subordinates who say: "It's okay to cut them off. That's why I said that such a solution would further open the way, the highway for cutting down such trees, because no one knows what the fate of these trees is and from now on what happens to them. This wood is extremely valuable. Apparently, the mayor of Shumen does whatever he wants. He's deforested almost the whole town. I don't know if this information has come to you, but at the moment, uncontrollably, trees are chopping in Shumen on the grounds that, you see, under the Operational Program, there are growth regions or some other operational program, the city is being deforested, and at one point we started cutting down trees outside the city. So I'm asking you to have more and more serious control, because this is an extremely serious incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I understand your concern, but you as a Member of Parliament and we as representing a state institution are good to address the problem where we can find a solution. The area environmental and water inspection shall not be responsible for road safety. She receives protocol and trusts those who make this protocol. In this case, as far as I understand it, this was provided by the mayor of Shumen municipality. When we talk about choosing in advance or post-factum, this is not the work of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection. She's been asked by the mayor who said there's gonna be a contractor doing this. I don't know what the procedure is, because this is out of the jurisdiction of the Regional Environmental Inspection. What is in competence is: first, to check under the order of the Law on Environmental Protection whether an impact assessment should be made or not falls into this thing. When it comes to the Biodiversity Act and to the Natura. This is the area in which I gave the answer. Including when we talk about the Agricultural Land Act, which you quite rightly quoted, we are not a competent authority to give a specific answer. I could make a suggestion, but it is good to refer these questions to the relevant competent authorities. I only covered the part that is actually within the Ministry of the Environment system, respectively the Regional Inspection, and the other mayor has his responsibilities as local authority and those who have identified the trees as dangerous. Again, we can't judge, we don't have the expertise to determine whether or not it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with Minister Nikolay Nankov and a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning a canceled order for the sanitary zone of the Dam of Ticha.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Obviously, the theme about VIK is quite interesting. The next question is once again about the Vik Shumen, Mr. Minister. As you know, the Supreme Administrative Court has revoked an order issued by the Minister of Environment and Waters for the establishment of a sanitary zone on the Dam with all the consequences of this. My question is: how will the cancellation of the order of the Minister of Environment and Water for the sanitary zone of the Dam of the Dam be affected by the operation of the water supply activity carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Waters? Because you know that the annulment of such a requirement under the current Water Act is linked to the complex water-use permit. In practice, it turns out that there is no longer a sanitary zone because this one was appealed. It's a long saga. The latest amendments to the Water Act have never entered into force for the new way of forming sanitary protection zones, which largely places the legitimate demands of Sumerians to reconsider, recalculate the cost of water, as they are currently not receiving drinking water, but water. This dam is operated by the Irrigation Systems. The water company pays for the irrigation systems and we get water for irrigation. The only effect this sanitary zone should have had is to be able to stop the waste water pouring. It is a fact that several villages are pouring out their waste water and this thing had to stop. The court called it off. What happens now? Wouldn't that create difficulties for the complex permit, on some issues regarding the application and so on? Please answer us so the citizens of Shumen can hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer, Minister Nankov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, for the separate territory in which the services are provided by the Bulgarian Ministry of Water and Water are provided by the Ministry of Water and Water. The funding conditions under the Programme are set out in the application guidelines drawn up by the Managing Authority of the OPOS. Such sites are the construction of a Purification Station for Drinking Waters, Shumen, I mentioned it in my previous response, the reconstruction of leading highway water pipelines, the reconstruction of sewer collectors and branches, the construction of new ones, the construction of an installation for decontaminating and recovery of sludges at the site of the Cleaning Station for Waste Waters, the replacement of pumping stations and a number of other activities for the city of Shumen and the city of Novi Pazar. For the Drinking Water Cleaning Station, Shumen, there is currently a prepared and approved work project and a building permit has been granted for the site. It was financed, you know, with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, 2016. The public contract for selection of contractor of the construction works was planned to start in July. The water is delayed again, will start in September 2018. The implementation of the construction and repair works is possible to start in 2019 after all procedures for conducting the procurement, including future complaints. The project for the sanitary and security zone of the dam is awarded by the Vik "Shoumen" Ltd. The water source is owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests with the right, you mentioned it yourself, of use by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The water supply is used for the water supply and is therefore the holder of a water collection permit and has entrusted the project to the sanitary and security zone. The annulment of the order for approval of the draft sanitary zone is pursuant to Decision No 1434 of 31 January 2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, Third Ward, confirmed by Decision No 7064 of 30 May 2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria in a five-member composition, First College, which is for a specific violation of the administrative and production rules and not essentially, i.e. procedural violations. That's the operative part of the Decision. With regard to investment sites designated by the regional pre-investment survey of the separate territory of the Water and Water, which are related to the construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of water networks and facilities, we do not find any regulatory restrictions on their implementation, that is, the project will be implemented despite the repealed order, which, I repeat, is not essentially, but is under administrative and procedural violations. In conclusion, I note that the Dam of Ticha has been used for the water supply of Veliki Preslav and Shumen, Shumen District, and Targovishte, Targovishte District since the beginning of the 1980s, and the municipality of Shumen is a main water source. The actions taken by the MRDPD regarding the construction of the Drinking Water Purification Station, including the design and financing of the construction, will ensure a continuous year-round supply of drinking water to the population, preventing the risk of increased foginess. Until the construction of the Drinking Water Cleaning Station, Shumen, the project for the sanitary and security zone of the Dam is possible to be drawn up according to the requirements of the Ordinance on Water Protection Areas under art. 135, para. 1, t. 6 of the Water Act, as well as the same period to establish Belt I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u123	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u124	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! For me, there is obviously a problem with the annulment of this order, regardless of the grounds on which the court has annulled it, because it does not exist in practice, no longer function. We have had the opportunity to talk to the Minister of Environment on this subject. What I understand right now is that there is virtually no such sanitary zone, including this Belt I. Mr. Minister, so one part of my question was regarding water supply and the complex water use permit, which has a water supply service. How will this thing affect because, to date, in the waters of this dam that feeds Shumen, Preslav and Targovishte, waste water is being poured out? You know this thing very well. The sewerage of several villages is empty, which has an additional impact on the quality of the water. I hope this problem does not affect the evaluation of the project, which will make another ministry of your Ministry, of course, because these things are seen very strictly and all kinds of violations of legislation have an impact on the implementation and implementation of a single project. What action will be taken from now on to identify this sanitary zone at least on this first belt? The latest amendments to the Water Act did not come into force, we did not vote on them here, where a new procedure for establishing sanitary and security zones should have been voted on, and the Regulation that you quoted is extremely old and does not meet European requirements. Therefore, let us not turn out to be entering a paragraph 22 in relation to this sanitary security zone and become sadly famous for the fact that water that is not drinking but also water contaminated with biological pollutants is leaking from the taps in Shumen, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u125	Thank you, Lord Ivanov. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the Regulation is old, but this is the current legal act. Unfortunately, the Water Act didn't go that way. I will recall once again something that I have answered before, and now in my main answer I have mentioned. For more than 30 years Veliki Preslav, Shumen and a large part of Targovishte provide them with water from the dam. The fact is, we have a canceled sanitary area. I mentioned it was for administrative and procedural reasons, but that's not what I'm saying, that's what the two members of the Supreme Administrative Court say. I don't want to politicize, but the fact is that for the overall solution of this problem, i.e. the sanitary security zone is part of Shumen's drinking water problem, is even the small part of the problem, the big one is that we don't have treatment facilities for drinking water and adequate normal plumbing to lead without losing the water to Shumen. You know that. Then there is a pre-investment study. The fact is that another 2016 public resource is being given, we are not talking about a European one, we are not talking about a pilot action before all the other separate territories that will apply under the OPS to solve this problem, to design it, to draw out a construction solution, to have a work project that we have at the moment and to assign it as quickly as possible. I just mentioned that we have a delay here again. The month of July was the deadline for the launch of the public procurement by the water service. They say September will be launched. It's been two months, but, as they say, two months. Financing is provided. During this time, God forbid, the legal basis should also be updated in particular with regard to the Regulation in the field of sanitary protection zones and, in general, the safety of the water used for drinking-bit needs, but will accordingly be walked in a coordination procedure and, of course, on the validation of a new sanitary zone, in parallel with the implementation of the activities of the future project, the construction of the drinking water treatment plant and the leading water pipeline to the town of Shumen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Nikolay Boshkov about the policy for ensuring and maintaining the good operational state of the roads from the state road network. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to develop the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u128	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, my questioning will begin as follows: You are resigned. I'm asking you, are you going to be the minister next week or not? And it's not nagging in any way. We need to know what the weight of your answer is, which you will give in a moment. Our question is about the operational state to ensure and maintain the good condition of the roads on the Republican road network. The operating condition is one of the most important and defining elements of each time, namely the possibility to be used for its intended purpose in the full volume of its functions and the achieved level and quality of the state of the road surface, ensuring its safe use. This is something that defines each particular path. Defines it in a way that poor quality of the road in practice means lack of road. To a particular extent, this applies to the Republican road network, given the functions and nature of its construction roads, roads that provide transport connections of national importance. Unfortunately and reality is as follows: Bulgaria is always in one of the last places in quality of roads in any ranking, the last of which is the World Economic Forum. The Global Competitiveness Index 2017 - 2018 puts us at 93th place from 137 countries and let us know that Bulgaria is facing countries such as Tanzania, Botswana, Honduras, Zambia, Mali, Jamaica, Cape Verde, Ghana, Sri Lanka and others. Based on all this, our questioning to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for ensuring and maintaining the quality of roads from the Republican Road Network?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bonev! I'll start with the first question. You're an intelligent man, and I find it hard to believe that you want an answer to a question that's not up to me. I personally resigned, I am now a resigning minister. In this capacity, I also answer your questions. I will carry out both the commitments and the activities until my resignation is accepted by the National Assembly. Apart from this, in response specifically to your questioning, I do not see Mr. Boshkov, the quality maintenance of the Republican road network is one of the most important priority tasks facing the MRD and the Road Infrastructure Agency for tens of years. For the implementation of the Ministry's policy in this direction, it is important not only to provide the necessary financial resources to ensure short-term and long-term planning of repair activities for the continuous improvement of the performance of road sections, but also to provide care as a good driver for ensuring road safety and strict control, both with regard to the award of activities, not both 2013 and with regard to the implementation of assembly and repair activities. The last year and a half I can say responsibly that the MRDP is making exceptional efforts towards the realization of high quality in the newly built and newly built road sites, to those who are rehabilitating or repairing. It should be borne in mind that the funds from the state budget are extremely insufficient and the sector is extremely underfunded to meet society's requirements for more modern, more comfortable, safer roads. Although significant and additional funds from the state budget have been allocated over the years, which governments implement and conduct a good financial policy aimed precisely at repairing roads and facilities on the Republican road network, a large part of Republican roads remain in poor condition and the reason for this is mainly in the shortage of financial resources and not in the absence of desire. It was critically important in this direction to change the approach and model of funding. MRRB, together with API, took concrete steps in this direction. At the beginning of the year, a contract for design and introduction of the electronic road charging system, the so-called tol system, was signed. The objective is to replace the existing model by one where the heavy goods vehicles to a much greater extent and in a fair way to contribute to the maintenance and development of road infrastructure on the basis of the....................................................................................................... This new approach to financing this sector is extremely important for the development of the economy and the prosperity of the country as a whole. Progress should also be noted as regards the policy of seeking the implementation of the priority site through concentrated or other permissible legal forms of public-private concession. The first steps in this direction have already been taken with the signed agreements at the meeting The government in the face of the MRB has a very consistent policy in the field of the road sector. It is obvious to our whole society that the development of road infrastructure in the country started in Borisov's first cabinet with large-scale construction of new highways, speed and bypass roads to ensure not only fast and safe movement, but also to contribute to the economic development of the regions. This policy continues to this day. Every day we work hard for the preparation and construction of new highway participations, habilitating regional roads that carry out important transport communications, repairing facilities, modernizing sections of paramount importance. Government policy in the field of the road sector is, apart from consistent and must be, in the future, uncompromising. There are deadlines within which our vision is to implement a comprehensive, quality and safe infrastructure. We are not working on a piece from today for tomorrow, but with strong confidence that with good planning and maximum mobilisation of the necessary resources, the highway ring of Bulgaria will be completed within a reasonable period of five to six years. The undisputed progress in terms of better roads is confirmed by official statistics - 187 km of highways built through the first cabinet Borisov; 135 km of the second cabinet, North speed tangent, the third government from 4 May to the moment by fulfilling larger sites, the construction of the second sail on the road I-9 Sunny Beach Burgas, the section between Aheloy and Pomorie and the direct route above the entrance road of Aheloy, the repair and construction activities of the pipes in the direction of Varna in the tunnels...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Currently in construction are the road of Gabrovo, more than 23 km, the highway of the district of Yablanitsa, the highway of the city of Blagoevgrad, the highway of Strupnik, the highway of Struma Lot 3.3, the district of Kresna Sandanski, including the award of all public procurement procedures for the new sections of Bulgaria's motorway ring. Until the introduction of the national system, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning and implementing a significant number of renovations on Republican roads financed not only by the state budget but also by European funds. It should also not be overlooked the issues on which the MRF is responsible for conducting the government's policy relating to the quality implementation of infrastructure sites, but indirectly related to the construction and construction and repair activities, namely a change in the regulations, which will lead to increased quality and safety of the road network, structural changes in the Ministry and secondary structures with a budget towards it, API and DNC, which are currently being made. For example, the draft Ordinance on the introduction into operation of the construction works of the Republic of Bulgaria, the minimum warranty periods for the implementation of construction works, amendments were made to the Regulation on the design of roads sent for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, more than 20 moments from the whole new regulation are fully and directly aimed at improving road safety. For all upcoming sites, regardless of the source of funding from the state budget or through European funding, the MRF shall exercise strict control over both procurement documents, technical assignment, performance requirements and during the execution of the works contracts. It is envisaged to increase the stricter controls carried out during construction by on-the-spot checks on the way the construction itself is carried out and the quality of the moisture materials itself. In the implementation of the site it is envisaged to test the quality and density of the asphalt all topics such as politics, such as actions that have not just started, which have already been finalised in institutional, even in the regulatory aspect. The fact is that the fruits of them will be harvested next year, two, three, four, but this is also the subject of another conversation. Maybe in the back, I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mr. Bonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, words describe reality, but words don't create reality. The reality is quite different, but we will talk about it, as you said, in the attitude. I'll continue on the state of the road pavement. The condition of road surfaces shall be determined according to the current methodology for measuring and assessing damage to road surfaces, taking into account the type and quantity of damage existing, measured and assessed in relation to the overall surface of that road. This condition is as follows: MRRB divides into three types of roads according to their current state.. good, medium and bad. Good condition These are roads with damage to the pavement below 10%, average condition is up to 30%, poor condition is over 30%. The review of data, publicly available data on the state of road pavement shows an increase in bad roads compared to previous years. I won't even comment on the road facilities at this time, although this will cause another question. In them, the need for recovery is not urgent, it is critical. She's critical! I have repeatedly asked you from this tribune about at least two international roads, on one of which the bridge facility is in critical condition, not being used, stressing for an international road! The construction of new roads, repair and rehabilitation of the old for construction is connected with deadlines and values of the construction works...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u133	The questions, Mr. Bonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u134	Yeah, yeah, in a little while, because I think it's a very important question. Short construction times help poor quality and hasty construction and non-compliance with technological processes and requirements. Some construction works, Mr. Minister, are being rolled over and others are simply not being carried out and as a result, by going to the site, the completed construction works do not meet the technical specifications given by the contracting entity. And that's true, even though everything is documentaryly fine. The appearance of holes and cracks, uncleaned shrubs and trees, deposits on banquets and ditches, poor drainage, missing road alarm and marking, damaged or missing system are security and others create conditions for rapid road destruction, increasing the risk of road accidents and reducing comfort and travel conditions. And finally, after all this: warranty deadlines. Many times from this tribune, I have asked you in personal quality about my area, about your overall policy on warranty deadlines for construction companies. And in this regard, my further questions to you are as follows: will the real application of warranty deadlines begin by making claims and seeking responsibility from construction companies? What and when will you do, and within what deadlines, that the state of the Republican road network improves so that it can function normally and perform its purpose and, above all, ensure its safe use?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bonev! On this topic it is very interesting the pathos you are talking with, because problems covered under the rug and accumulated more than 30 years ago, not to say and 40 years old, it was very late, and at the moment not just a solution has been found, and this solution is being implemented and I mentioned in the following years For the municipal we will have another dialogue, I guess next week when we comment on the changes to the Roads Act. Speculation and false claims.. I will say it frankly from this high tribune, are the findings made by you about bridge facilities, about markings and so on on roads that you believe were built a month, two, three. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You know, just the last two years... New roads you mentioned, I listened very carefully. These are roads unrepaired, unrehabilitated for more than 30 years, respected Mr. Bonev! Of those who have been rehabilitated, who have been newly built the last year and a half, which have been accepted as objects that have been awarded, I know where you are also going under the Law on Public Procurement, awarded under the Law on Construction in the Area, such as the approval of building documentation, of projects... Whether they're quality or not... This year and a half, Mr. Bonev, all of this has gone through the strictest control, including every road section newly rehabilitated, newly built or the one to be awarded from now on has passed and will pass under the control of road safety auditors. Not, as in 2007, dear Mr. Bonev, for one time, which I am convinced you will refer to in your regard on the subject, I am talking about II-16. An interesting year is 2007, then the contract was awarded with the investment engineer and 2008 when the road design started, but on this topic I will not open a word. After all, there are ministries, so I know exactly where you're going with this attitude. It is good that really the foundations on the topic are laid in safe, secure and really European road infrastructure not only in this mandate, but in this term all the regulatory changes that have been set up, including life and health, next week on the subject of the Roads Act will be debated, debated in one quality or another. In addition to the regulations that we adopted, I mentioned about the Regulation on Road Design, 30 years and bad years, since Soviet times have not been changed, the rules for road design have not been updated. For the Regulation,.. specifically in response to your further question.... about the warranty deadlines, March we raised this topic. Yes, you've asked the question of responsibility several times. The regulation is currently agreed.. you know, for more than a month, I have also opened it, I have had informal conversations with you and with your colleagues, it is agreed with the competent departments. Not only increase in warranty time, Mr. Bonev, but also more public powers for the contracting authority, whether public or public administration, to claim its guarantees. The guarantee of good implementation, the guarantee that is legally laid down in the Ordinance on minimum warranty time limits and the introduction of sites into service. The approach that we have started and are currently preparing public procurement for the new highways, the sections of the new highways, is precisely the builder to pay after the introduction of the sites into operation, after Act 16. So on this subject there will be indeed a professional discussion and political discussion from now on, but my call is also from this high tribune, it must be led by experts. You are the experts on the subject, not the experts in quotes, which from morning to night are in the morning and in the evening blocks and so on. This is an extremely important topic for our entire society, and with common efforts we will move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bonev, if you'd like to take some consideration of the Minister's response, I hope so within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. We seriously doubt it. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, my question is from May. I haven't tried to mean anything in any way, and I've been listening to that answer for a year and a half. I'm sorry to say that. But the reality is this. The state of the Republican road network is as follows:.46% of the roads are in poor condition, i.e. roads where people break their cars; 35% of the road facilities need immediate reconstruction activities. This is data from the Strategy for the Development of the Road Infrastructure of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, 2016 - 2022 adopted by Decree No 726 of 2015 of the Council of Ministers. That's the data. The condition of the pavement can also be characterized by the fact that the inhabitants of many settlements have come to fill the holes by investing in the Republican road network. On newly built roads, the condition is no better. I immediately give you an example: Lot 1 of the highway "Struma" is closed from 21 to 28 July in connection with the collapse of a bridge facility, a 10-year guarantee facility. The roads that have been built over the past 10 years, I repeat myself, are crumbling. The highway is a 400 million-dollar object, for use only, and not all summer because it is now closed, and because of two uncleaned shafts that caused landslides. Freeway "Struma" after the construction of Lot 1 and Lot 3 we begin the restoration of Lot 0, not put into service. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Short deadlines and irregularities in public procurement help poor construction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u139	Conclusion, Mr. Bonev! I expect a conclusion from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u140	Failure to comply with technological consistency, as well as the introduction of low quality materials leads to the emergence of holes and cracks, deposits on the banquet, poor drainage, lack of road alarm and marking, damage and missing security systems, all of this leads to the risk of road accidents and endangers the lives of travelers. Mr. Minister, the roads must be built so that they don't kill. Yes, we all agree that roads should be built, but that should not be the method, Minister. It is necessary to define a new vision and strategy for rehabilitation of road infrastructure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, I think this is a very serious matter, and jumping time by one minute is not going to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u141	I gave you a lot of advance, Mr. Bonev. I hope you will now come to a conclusion of your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u142	Yeah, yeah, sure. A new vision and strategy to repair and rehabilitate road infrastructure through which to achieve a sustainable state and development of the entire Republican road network, as well as to adopt a new monitoring and evaluation mechanism and measures for the implementation of road infrastructure and warranty deadlines. If this does not happen, neither the long-awaited toll system, nor the funds from the state budget, nor the European funds will help. They will only continue to pour money into the holes in the Bulgarian roads without improving the quality. But if the absorption of this money continues to happen in the same vicious way as it has been, then the effect will be the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. I've given you enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u145	We continue with the next question by the National Representative Georgi Yanchev Gokov on the need for a major renovation of a completely passing area of Stara Zagora region, third-class road III-5701, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! The topic of roads, their condition and the need for repairs and the quality of repairs in recent times is extremely up-to-date, especially in the context of what happened at Svoge. I'm not going to make an analogy with this at all, because I'm going to talk to you about a third-rate time in the Stara Zagora region. I have asked you several times about such roads in Stara Zagora region. The answers were pretty much the same. I had refused to ask such questions, but since I made a reception room in one of the villages concerned there and the people very much insisted on asking you this question, they had even more correspondence with the Road Infrastructure Agency, with the Ministry, including the Prime Minister. Including serious discontent among local people, collect a petition with a request for road repair and there is danger and warn of civil disobedience. Needless to say more in that direction. You know that everyone wants theirs, although on the common background of the road network in Bulgaria I do not know if this is the most important problem. This third-class road is in an extremely poor operating condition, it is third-class road III-5701. Especially bad is his part from the village of Pshenichevo to the village of Han Asparuhovo. The road was built in 1952.. 1954 and today it is hard even to call it a road. I would like to point out that 4 years ago this section has passed the entire stream of heavy goods vehicles with career materials in the village of Bratia Kunchev for the construction of Trakia Motorway. The locals claim that 12 tonnes are carried at the maximum permissible load of 40 tonnes and I have no reason not to believe them because it is mass practice in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u147	The question, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u148	In the village of Han Asparuhovo, the trucks passed through the center of the village and caused cracks even on the houses, and the pavements leveled with the road sail. In this regard, Minister, what is the current state of this third-class road at the moment and the question is: when do you plan to carry out the necessary Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u150	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, another question about the roads in Stara Zagora, and not only are you absolutely right. I'll start where you started. People want what they want, despite everything else. People are right to want what they want. People want, should and will continue to want quality asphalt. Mostly, not like the one laid down in 2013. So, this is very important! Everyone, both at the moment and from now on, to respond to how it is due, to monitor the quality so that it is not necessary after a year, two or three "you have referred to one time, I have also just now, to rehabilitate roads that have been rehabilitated two or three years ago. And just the ones you're asking a question about are not rehabilitated for 30 years. And here we really are talking about a more global vision without referring to the answer to the previous question. Speaking of vision, not only do we have to talk, we have to conduct such policies, as well as that we are perhaps the only office that starts not only talks, but real actions on the subject with Vision. I assume that you have heard, especially from your colleagues about Vision "Nula" which is the long-term and sustainable European road safety policy, which must also be adopted as regulations by the legislative authority and must be implemented by all competent authorities related to road safety. Particularly for the third-class road 5701 "Sernevo" "Pshenichevo "Khan Asparuhovo," 35 years old, you mentioned and you have not been repaired. Due to the limited financial means, the implementation of the main repair of the third-class road is not included in the API Organisational Programme for 2018. Despite the lack of funds in this financial year, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in particular APIs, in the current repairs and maintenance, will take all necessary measures to ensure road safety at the end of September and mid-October, before the start of winter maintenance. God forbid the people who have prepared this answer to me fulfill their commitment, because I am speaking with all the condition that I am a minister of resignation. There's no design readiness for the road, unfortunately, at the moment. In accordance with the Agency's budgetary framework for 2019, prioritization of the sites for which it is necessary to design a technical project will be carried out and the necessary action will be taken as to whether there is a possibility to finance the third-class road III-5701 and will be included in the Agency's Design Programme, starting award procedures for the selection of a contractor to design the technical design for the major repair of the section. Here under the current maintenance repairs, as they say, we will not be able to cope with the extremely difficult road, so we need investment design and therefore need to award under the main reconstruction and rehabilitation, rather than under the current and preventive repair. Nevertheless, in order to improve the composition and condition of the section with the worst characteristics of which you mentioned, between Surnevo and Khan Asparuhovo, a quantitative-value account for the urgent repairs has been prepared for the current maintenance. This is for this one, the toughest precinct. However, we are not just talking about deterioration there, but we are talking about tragic sections of the Republican road. A quantitative-valued account has been placed, the value of which amounts to nearly 2 million. lv. The Agency will assign the road-support company in the field of implementation of these repair works in the precinct after their financial security, but under the current repairs only in this section. For the whole road we need a complete project with basic rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! I didn't expect another answer, although you tried to politicize things a little bit by hinting at what asphalt was laid 2013 - 2014. I have to tell you that in 2009 - 2013 and 2014 - 2017 there was no particular difference between the asphalt applied in 2013 - 2014. I guess there is no big difference in the commissions collected from the asphalt in those years and the others I quoted you. I would like to say to you the most seriously, although it is not relevant to the issue that until we have stopped taking commissions in the construction of roads from public procurements, we will not have roads in Bulgaria, no matter how much we fight in the chest, that we are making roads or doing anything for the state. This time it's really in a tragic state, you rightly noted it. I will carefully review the transcript of what the promise is and, as they say, we will cross our fingers to fulfill their promise those who have written it, but I want to tell you that this time it is indeed in an impossible state. People don't die there. It's just that they can't go so fast as to get into a tragic accident, but I have to tell you, they break their cars daily, they refuse to make their bread, their goods, and so on. This time it also has to do with bringing the labour to the Mini Maritsa-East. And even though I'm out of time, I just want to say one sentence. A great deal of blame for the destruction of this road is the transfer of materials, career materials for the construction of highways. We have to stop building modern roads, tearing down small roads, and then not restoring them. This is unacceptable and we have to stop the practice in Bulgaria, again outside the question, but I say it to you as a responsible person, by lying in the tonnage of the goods carried, because this mainly destroys the roads in Bulgaria, apart from intensive traffic, of course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u153	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, there's a difference, believe me, in asphalt over the years there's a difference, especially in the road that we've been referring to everyone for two weeks, there's a big difference. But I do not have the moral right, nor do I have the position to criticize how a Member of the National Assembly holds from this high tribune, this suggestion that you have made to me sounds like one suggestion that another representative authority of the state did a week ago, less than a week ago,.................... And a piece of advice, I'm less than you, a piece of advice: if you have information, there are competent authorities in this country, please report, prove your claims, as we have done several times as executive, and as legislative authorities in this capacity. Everything else is ugly speculation, disgusting suggestion and stigmatization of a truly huge industry that provides livelihood to over 1.5 million Bulgarian citizens directly and indirectly, directly and indirectly, commenting on the topic of commission suggestions, percentages and so on. As far as the road goes, you're absolutely right. We must also monitor how the quality will be implemented and finance will be provided, but be assured that with the policy that you have very criticised, but as a global topic you have never found objective criticism for it, precisely to the system, because you know that all future governments and our entire society will receive their deserved paths after its introduction within a period of five, six years. Of course, with what we should always take into account, I have always argued, and I have conducted as a policy, precisely better control and more efficient spending of the resource, which in the future will be many times greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u155	Thank you, Minister Nankov. There is a question from the MPs Donka Simeonova and Kristina Sidorova about the construction of the tunnel under Shipka peak. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are putting again the issue of the tunnel under Shipka peak not only because of parliamentary control in July 2017. We promised you that we of the BSP parliamentary group will monitor this project, but also because this project is extremely important for the residents of the districts of Gabrovo and Stara Zagora. It also has its national importance, and given the fact that it can be part of the trans-European Corridor No 9, it also has its European importance. I only recall that this project has its own historical character. The Ninth National Assembly in 1897 decided to have a tunnel under Shipka peak, but then this tunnel should be railway. And since this project is a plan of not one and two governments, but already of all three offices of Mr. Borisov, and since on 14 July 2017, you answered this question: "Yes, there will be a tunnel under Shipka peak, but at this stage we have given the construction of an ideal project and we are looking for sources of funding. So we ask: at this stage how is the construction of the tunnel under Shipka peak going, what are the deadlines and what are the sources of funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u157	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Simeonova, Sidorova! I will say nothing new, and I am convinced that you do not expect me to say anything new, as in the particular answer that has been prepared for me by my colleagues at the API is in no way different from the answer I gave you a few months ago. Let it be clear to all of us that the tunnel under Shipka is very correctly described geopolitically the situation is not just a project for two areas connecting South and Northern Bulgaria, not with national, not even with European, as you said, with more European. However, we are talking about a transport corridor that continues through Istanbul to the Middle East. Since there is a huge project, this will be the route of Transport Corridor No 9. It's clear he's going through the tunnel under Shipka. Here we are talking about infrastructure that needs to be built in southern Bulgaria. So far, the topic has always been commented only on Northern Bulgaria, the tunnel under Shipka, the Ruse Motorway, Veliko Tarnovo. From Veliko Tarnovo to Gabrovo and to the tunnel, and South Bulgaria The project is divided into two parts without returning the story when one is launched as a real implementation, such as financing: the first phase, Phase 1 is four stages first, second, third and fourth, a tour. Not to mention all the other topics, the idea project, the idea development of the tunnel under Shipka. This funding phase, with the real construction and passing of an Expert Technical Council to the Road Infrastructure Agency, ends within this year. So not only the tunnel as a tunnel, we have the step and the stages that are performed along the lines of Phase 1. Not the smallest part of the facility itself the easier one, we are talking about bridge facilities, some of the longest, currently built the first, almost 600 meters of Gabrovo's tour, ends at the end of this year. We have to pay back, accept it, and in 2019 we have to start construction, rather the award, because it will be an engineering.. we are talking about an extended project of the tunnel itself...................................................................................... Sources of financing and I hereby conclude a state budget or future public-private partnership, future investments, the main topic of Chinese interest, and not only of Chinese companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a line, Mrs. Sidorova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister in Retire, you said something new compared to the reply last year. Last year you said the tour would end September, now you say at the end of the year. At least at the beginning of the next one, I hope it's over. What we wanted to learn with colleague Simeonova, and what you correctly hinted at, what about the road from Tarnovo to Gabrovo? Because you know very well that traffic runs through the center of Dryanovo. What procedures will be carried out there? Will there be a tour of the town of Dryanovo? What happens to the south side where the tunnel exits before the city of Shipka? You're not saying that. Have alienation procedures been carried out there, is there a project for the road from there to contact southern Bulgaria? Otherwise, it is a fact that the tunnel under Shipka is also vital for Stara Zagora, but especially for Gabrovo district, as this will be the most direct link between the region and southern Bulgaria. This will give a new life to the whole area and investment opportunities. And another question to which we have been waiting for a few years for an answer: how will it be financed? Because both last year and this one is a year and three months later, you say: We are looking for different ways, most likely the last option is a public-private partnership. Public-private partnership, state budget, European funds. We're waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. That was Mrs. Sidorova's line. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, interesting was the pathos, by the way, without commenting on your reaction. With regard to the two months of delay, the introduction into service of the section of the tour I assume that you are thoroughly familiar with the construction and investment process, and procedures, as they say, both in construction and in the design of documentation, and in quality acceptance. You want us to quickly accept the object as other objects that are quickly accepted, I guess, when you ask it. Yes, September was the term of contract. Yeah, well, that's what I answered responsibly from that tribune. Therefore, I am now even more responsible: at the end of the year, due to the fact that the whole tour will be ready with the exception of the highest bridge facility built in Bulgaria for more than 30 years. This has slowed the performance as a whole, but I am convinced that you are better than me and the builders know the specifics of the construction process and you are an expert on bridge construction to make such an important comment for the two months gap between the answer, a project that is actually implemented for more than six years, by the way, the two months, if they are a problem... I have seen that from the answer to my question you have not only conceived the topic, as is stated in your question, the theme not only with the tunnel, but with all the accompanying infrastructure to it, the so-called hinterland, if we speak in slightly more complex terms, i.e. the links between the future highway Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," and the connection in its southern part in Bulgaria with the highway "Trakiya". These are issues that stand on the agenda of this year, from this year, not from the Ninth National Assembly, as Mrs Simeonova quoted. So they've been working on it, too, but since this year. From this year! That's why I did it for a reason. With regard to the specific further question of financing, you were not listening to me, I guess I answered specifically from where. We excluded European funding and mentioned: out of the three sources listed by you, two are objective and realisable public-private partnership and, first of all, of course, state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u163	Thank you. We're going to the next question. It is asked by the National Representative Manol Genov about the serious condition of the road after the rehabilitation of the 20th kilometer section, from road III-804 Popovitsa Here you are, Mr. Genov, to ask your question, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u164	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister of Retire, I am extremely uncomfortable with the question I am going to ask you right now about the serious condition of the road after rehabilitation between Popovitsa and Asenovgrad, the so-called road III-804, and especially about the poor condition of the bridge facility. We are currently in a season of accelerated traffic on the roads of the whole country. The risk of travelers, as we see, is extremely high on the Republican and municipal road network. Less than two years ago, I alerted the disparaging attitude towards parts of the Republican road network and frankly denying the Bulgarian taxpayers access to it. Mrs. Pavlova, in the previous term of twice frankly lied to me about this facility. First of all, we were gonna do it again. Then it turns out that the constructive expertise is not responding, it can't be rehabilitated, we'll design a new one. I regret that this is how continuity has been obtained, and in your management it is for this particular area. If you recall, on 7 July 2017, I asked the similar question from this tribune. You then replied to me that we have a technical project prepared, I quote the shorthand, and in the budget of the API's New Construction Programme 600,000 are provided. lv. and you assured me, not only me, the voters, the people who need this bridge and this section, who pass on it, that within 25 days a public procurement procedure will be opened. Since then, about 16 times 25 days have passed. So answer those people who need it, when is this thing gonna happen? Because, normally, when you underestimate those moments, you're gonna fall off a bus, God forbid, and we're gonna forbid the buses to cross the bridges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. For an answer, Mr. Nankov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u166	Madam President, honourable Members. Dear Mr. Genov, an interesting analogy for bridge and bus. You must think of 2006 and the White Bridge and the trip. Can you think of White? I suppose that's what you meant. But, dear Mr. Genov, I cannot accept the thesis you have developed as a disparaging attitude towards Republican roads. This topic, or rather the thesis spoken by you, I could hardly accept, let alone that on this subject, as well as we have made commitments, they are realized with the exception of the fact that this is the only way I will respond to my prepared resource, such as providing financial resources and procedures. My last answer was for the procedure for the removal of a factual error with the Ministry of Agriculture, because in July the Regional Road Management Plovdiv, this is what I replied to you before, asking Sadovo Municipality that the property is not municipal property. An application was submitted to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office to correct the error which is currently not complete. It slows things down. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't want to comment on the mayor or who? I quote the development of my previous answer to the question so far. It is only July that we receive from Sadovo Municipality a certificate that the property is not municipal property. Turn to the mayor of Sadovo why he gave it to us not until July. I don't want to justify myself in any way. Everything else I've answered before, I can confirm right now, but reading you the answer, I think it's pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u168	I'm sorry I didn't bring the letter, Mr. Nankov, with a request from the mayor, sent by the former head of the District Department, asking him what would happen to the bridge and if there were any commitments. And he replied that in the near future no events are planned to repair this bridge at all. I have the letter, I just don't want to spoil your mood to show it to you. This chief, as far as I know, has been gone and has had a temporary performer for several months. I don't know if that's one of the reasons. But let anyone who is interested in doing so I don't think there's a mayor in Bulgaria to whom you sent something, answer a phone or go somewhere in the archive, not to do it. It is this mayor who is one of the most interested in this thing to happen, to happen, to be renovated or rebuilt, because the mayor is the mat, people go every day and drink on his head about what will happen. Now, from this tribune I say that you specifically did not answer me will anything happen in the near future... a month, two, three? Last time it was 16 times 25. Come on, don't be 20 times 25, let's do it soon, because this facility needs the people who come through there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u170	Thank you, Madam President, gentlemen of the House! Everything I've answered in my previous answer on the subject, I think about four months ago, is up to date. This facility will be fixed, the resource is provided, its project part is finalized, just needs to be corrected the actual error after notification by the municipal administration in Sadovo, a fact that occurred only at the end of July. No one would allow themselves, if something was another property, private or municipal, to launch any procedure. By the way, currently following reports from Regional Road Management, you know that this facility is prohibited from crossing, meaning heavy goods traffic has been stopped on it. So this topic with which you started your question, in this case it was not, I am convinced, particularly appropriate. It's bad to criticize when things happen. I think that all procedures that are clearly scheduled in our legal base must be improved, but we must follow them and speed them up. Because I can also go back to another time, in other procedures, and some other bodies, to which I also called on Mr. Gokov to turn, if there are signals, are currently investigating another tragedy. The procedures at another time have not been followed, so do not ask us not to follow the legal procedures. It takes time, and in this case the mayor of Sadovo municipality could have speeded up the reply to the letter a little faster, is it, or is it not municipal property? And as for the road repairs, the former Director of the District Road Administration did not know what he reported, this letter was not received by the Ministry. I assure you that this is what I said in my previous answer, and now it is at stake, and it must be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the MP Vasil Antonov on the termination of funding for rehabilitation of Republican road PVN II-11 in the section of the village of Milkovitsa through the village of Dolni Wit, village of Somovit to the branch of the town of Nikopol at the village of Cherkovitsa, municipality of Gulyantsi, Pleven district. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, on 23 May 2018, you answered my question about the serious condition of road II-11 in the area of the village of Milkovitsa via Dolni Wit, the village of Somovit until the branch for the town of Nikopol through the village of Cherquitsa. In your energetic response you stressed, I quote: the road is in a tragic state and perhaps this is the worst not second-class, but a Republican road in the country. $800,000. lv. It has updated the technical project, it has prepared a technological project and on Monday, 28 May, will launch a complete repair of the section, whose planned repair works will be carried out within three months of the months of June, July and August. As a result of your promise, the strike actions of the citizens of the two municipalities were suspended, and in fact this has been repeated several times in recent years and people believed that the 28th will actually start the renovation. To date, the situation is as follows: in fact, on May 28th, several workers and one or two road machines came out, took a walk for a few days, and the repairs suddenly ended. In this regard is my question to you, Mr. Minister: where did the funds that have been provided disappear, what happened to them, and more importantly, what will happen to the Milkovica section of Dolni Vitt, and the repairs you requested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For an answer, Mr. Nankov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the House, Mr. Antonov! I stand by my words again that the section of road II-11 between the settlements of Milkovica, Dolni Wit, Somovit will be realized within the commitments made. The contractor of the contract for maintenance and ongoing repair is assigned the implementation of the repair works provided for in the developed technological project and included in the prepared by the Regional Road Management Pleven, additional assignment to the contract. The Road Infrastructure Agency will ensure that the repair is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the API technical specification for 2014 and the provisions of the technology project. Preventive repairs started at the end of May, as you mentioned, with preparatory activities, but, unfortunately, metrological conditions did not allow for further construction work. During the period June.July in Pleven there were extremely intense amounts of precipitation, which created unprecedented problems on existing infrastructure: floods in settlements, flooded streets and roads, landslides, falling of road sections. Not to list settlements not only in the district, but also in the whole of Northern Bulgaria, mainly the Northwest. All regional road services and road support companies, including Pleven district, were working on overcoming problems related to the complicated road situation and preventing damage and disasters in emergency order in some settlements where there was severe damage caused by heavy rainfall. In the specific case of the site road II-11 Milkovitsa "Somovit" in the section from km 196 to 147 per km 206+838 repair activities have been resumed and due to the lack of a bypass route in this section will be carried out without stopping the movement. In the course of this calendar year and which the API colleagues have undertaken in our current response, as my commitment as resigning minister is to pass on this information to you is that within this year the road will be realized in full. Such commitments have been made to you and to the citizens of Pleven region. It is good that within the cabinet Borisov 3 and this Republican time. Second class, in this section will be completely rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u176	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm a little puzzled by your answer. First of all, I didn't hear a definite deadline for the repairs. This to claim that June, July and August is not a good time for road construction repairs, does not sound serious, despite the great rains. I'm going to give you an example that just 20 miles in the area where you are chosen, the weather conditions are no different, and there they are carried out and have not stopped these repairs. I accept that it is a difficult situation in the sector, especially in road construction, and I accept that you are a man of honor and assume in particular that road repairs will be carried out. Two things I ask you to mention in your duplicate: firstly, what is the deadline for the repair and how will you ensure the completion of the repair, because you are indeed resigned and we believe that you will stand up to your word and will defend your resignation to the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u177	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for evaluating a man of honor sounded in my ears as a good compliment. As for my resignation, I'm defending my resignation, I'm resigning. On this subject, if you consider that something else should be done, not only related to resignation, in personal terms, to do so. I think on that subject... [[Noise and lines.]] I'll say about the term "bad suggestion about Loveska and the Pleven region." The repairs, which took place for the second-class road II-35, are the only repair activities that ran in August in Lovech region and in Pleven region. They are under contracts, you know according to the "Regions in growth" with companies performers, I will not quote the names, with a particular hired technique, with specific commitments and responsibilities on these sections of the second-class road. And along the line of the current repairs and maintenance with the selected four-year contracts, the technique of the company, which carries out the current repair and maintenance in the whole of Pleven District, is doing current repairs and maintenance in one northwest other area, now Vratsa, part of the equipment has been mobilized for Miziya. I don't want to answer specifically, but this technique was precisely directed, so say the API colleagues, I dare to trust them, to overcome damage not only in Miziya, but also in other settlements affected by precipitation, and not only June, July, but also August, which you mentioned. The repairs will be completed by the end of the year. That's the assurance they gave me. I will keep an eye on this in one quality or another, as you mentioned. I'm sure you'll be watching too, and the citizens, along the second-rate path, they deserve it. The financial resource will come again from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question from the National Representative Hairi Sadakov concerning the measures taken to restore road II-86 Sokolovtsi Here you go, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 7 March 2018, on the Republic route II-86 Sokolovtsi, Smolyan, Srednogortsi, on the territory of the municipality of Smolyan, the village of Tikale due to the rewetting of the soils in the previous days was dropped a huge rock mass, which paved the way. The collapse was defined as the most massive block type in Bulgaria on a Republican road with a size of 25 decares, cracks with a slope of 60 degrees and a depth of 5 m, with the prospect of developing up the slope. According to engineer Doncho Atanasov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, then, at the time of asking the question, I quote: The Philosophy of the strengthening of the collapse will be for the whole area. It concerns high and low voltage supply lines, water supply and optics. The weight associated with the passage of the Republican road is on us. This is about regulations and laws. All the institutions have been affected. Everything the state has to do in the face of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works under the full control of the Prime Minister is done to reduce social tensions, which was quite high when the road was closed. In the opinion of some experts, strengthening the collapse will take 7 - 8 months, while others have set relatively shorter deadlines. A clear and single expert opinion is needed, quick solutions with a term of execution, specific state institutions to take responsibility and implement the strengthening of the collapse and restoration of the road connection, and ensuring the stability of the power lines, the water infrastructure and other communication facilities. For all people in Smolyan region, the deadline for restoring movement along the main road artery is imperative by September 15th.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u181	Your question, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u182	I'm sorry, it's really a very important question. I'm asking for a little compromise on time. I'm gonna jump over some of my questions. It's very important this time. It is a major road artery for several municipalities in the region, for passing across the country and its alternative, created at the moment, is quite difficult. In dire situations since March, mayors of isolated settlements then sent a letter to the Prime Minister, the Ombudsman and all competent state institutions demanding urgent measures to be taken to restore the main road artery. The initial stress of the region's population from what happened was temporarily contained due to the rapid decisions of the institutions and the actions taken to ensure an alternative path. The temporary road link shall provide traffic only for part of users, given the parameters of the road, and only under certain weather conditions typical for the summer season. As the winter approached, the active precipitation and floods from the last days of June on the territory of Smolyan region, the lack of up-to-date concrete information and real construction and reconstruction actions on the collapse and the main road artery restored social tensions among the population of the region, which, according to my stated meetings with people from all over the region and representatives of legal entities, would lead to recent protests, which happened. They weren't provoked by anyone. People organized themselves. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is this: will you take responsibility for restoring the road and strengthening the collapse? Will you be able, according to the commitment made by March, to liquidate the consequences and restore the movement on the road II-86 Sokolovtsi - Smolyan - Srednogortsi - 15 September, because such a commitment was made? Thank you. [[Speak away from the microphones.]] Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u183	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Please, whenever you need to clarify matters important to the state. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. I'll extend your time as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sadakov, in relation to those in the beginning of March, you mentioned very precisely what is the reason for the over-wet soils, landslide and demolition processes that led to the complete closure of the Republican road II-86 Sokolovtsi I'll tell you about the commitments later. The agency together with Smolyan Municipality built a temporary road from the village of Vlahovo to Tikalsko Dere to ensure the movement of cars and vans. The value of the activities carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency amounted to just over 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. I took the trouble of going down that road about 20 days ago. Ms. Dora Yankova, as a representative from the region, has repeatedly referred to me as a minister, with the fact that this time she will not be able to take on the heavy movement in the coming autumn-winter season, mainly the winter season. It is absolutely right. Heavy traffic is threatened on the topic of safety and not only for safety, but also for developed issues. She's absolutely right. The road infrastructure agency not only needs to meet its commitments, but also will meet its commitments. You will hear what they are in the answer to your question. A little more chronology. By order of 13 March 2018, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" was appointed at the time Doncho Atanasov, who carried out a detailed examination and mapping of the section, on the basis of which on 19 March 2018 he presented geotechnical expertise with recommendations for the implementation of urgent emergency events to stabilise the section and a detailed work programme for the scope of research and project work for a radical, global, long-term, sustainable solution to the problem affecting the road. The section affected by the landslide processes is listed in the register of landslides in the Republic of Bulgaria, not to quote the numbers, by the Geosaurus. Following a working meeting with representatives of all the institutions concerned on 2 April 2018, the following decisions were taken to address the problem. First of all, the execution of urgent emergency events on Republican Road II-86 at km 109+650 under current maintenance in order to launch emergency actions quickly, while in the event of the start of the activities, the same shall be carried out following the instructions of the expert working group appointed by order. Secondly, the launch of a public procurement under the Public Procurement Act, with a direct award, we are talking about emergency events, about the selection of a contractor for research and design works, and they have to solve the long-term and sustainable problem. The urgent emergency events for stabilization of the station are assigned to a road-support company in Smolyan region. So far, the assigned works have cleared the terrain of vegetation and covered the main crack along the slope with geomembrane with a thickness of 2 mm. In the process of implementation is strengthening with a high-strength network with anchors, this is, you know, a network when there is a collapse of skates and landslide processes, with anchors in the area between the two long lines, because there passes a high voltage of 20 kilovolts, as well as vertical strengthening with a high-strength network of an area of about 500 square meters. M with anchors in the area above the collapse. That's where the plumbing is. The total amount of emergency emergencies allocated is 1 million. 145,000. BGN 991. with VAT. Their implementation should be completed by 15 September this year, as are the assurances of the colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency, which we have committed to for another March month, as we have stated, and I think you, as MPs, and representatives of local and regional authorities, have taken over during the weekly meeting with the population. The commitment for September 15th has been updated and confirmed and as early as morning, when I was preparing for parliamentary control, we talked that September 15th was a foreseeable date. By the way, by passing through there, I am not convinced of September 15th that I say this in a personal capacity. However, the deadline for September 15th has been reaffirmed to me by my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency. They work around the clock, as they say. In the meantime, the Agency has also taken action to implement the long-term measures to strengthen the area I mentioned. At the moment, the situation is as follows. In April 2018, the API launched the public procurement under the Law on Public Procurement in implementation of the Act on Public Procurement. 1 of the plan, which I mentioned about the selection of a geologist researcher and the preparation of a technical project for the necessary emergency events to stabilize the precinct. Excuse me, Madam President, two more paragraphs and I won't take the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u185	Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u186	For the carrying out of the geological research activities there is a situation available with territorial scope of the engineering and geological survey of the landslide applied on the sample of the cadastral map of the town of Smolyan of the town of Geozatata. Pernik. On 12 July 2018, a contract of 35 thousand was concluded. £760. with VAT with the selected company Geotechnics ABC In line with the assignment, the contractor has presented facts and an engineering-geological report, a project for a stabilizing anchor system with freezing and a project to protect cracks from surface water infiltration. Once the development is adopted with an expert act without comments, documentation will be prepared for the launch of a public procurement contract for the selection of an engineer, design and construction based on the development, which will design a technical project for the permanent stabilisation of landslide processes and implement the planned design construction and construction works. Indicative deadline for starting the procedure is October this year. In view of the fact that the Road Infrastructure Agency does not provide funding for short-term urgent activities and lasting activities, the Agency will apply for the necessary funds from the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. In summary: within the winter support that you know will start from October, the road will be open at least in one direction In connection with all the signals you have given me, I have once again asked for a repeat of the way on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Sadakov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have more questions. It's a serious problem. The temporary measure of passage is a solution, but it is not what everyone expects. Really heavy traffic, very important road artery. The temporary measure now with the alternative path has decided at this time. The subsequent temporary measure, with transit mode, will give some solution, but it will be a difficult decision, it will certainly be a difficult decision. It is very important that we have clear deadlines for the long-term solution. Will the Recovery Commission provide the funds? How will the financing work? These are all up-to-date and very important issues to which we expect the Minister to give a clearer answer. If I have to, I'll ask you the questions one more time. We want a clearer answer. It's very important. We don't want it of a political or any other nature. We want him... [[Reply from Minister Nikolay Nankov with a request to take the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u189	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u190	Just 40 seconds. I'm sorry that I broke my promise not to take attitude with the back. Only 40 seconds, Madam President. Mr. Sadakov, you're absolutely right. To reason on the topic of terms. October, October 15, in the answer to the question I pointed out to you mid-October when we started an engineering procedure. May God speed up the colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency and in 4 months, if not appealed, have a corresponding contractor chosen. Two months lasts an average design of such a complex object. The necessary co-ordination procedures follow with the GeosaProtection "Pernik," the complex coordination procedure with the Ministry, because we are talking about landslide processes for another month. We can safely talk about May-June next year to launch the real long-term reinforcement events. If we are to be objective, these are the deadlines for each responsible representative of the state to engage in the long-term reinforcements. With regard to the repair activities that will provide the temporary, short-term solution, they must be completed on 15 September in order to be able, when the winter season begins, because we are talking about the Rhodopes, a heavy snowflake area, with heavy rainfall during the winter months, there must be a good temporary organisation there for heavy goods and a large part of the heavy traffic to pass along the second-class road, albeit in one lane, with an organisation during the winter months of traffic. Colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency and the DMV, along with the DMV, should and should be obliged to ban traffic, heavy traffic through the route we have built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the implementation of projects under Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014 " 2020" by the municipality of Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u192	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Municipality of Shumen is a beneficiary under Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme During the implementation of the individual projects trees are cut down with the motive for better implementation of the projects. At the same time, it appears from the municipal administration that the requirement of the Law on Construction in the territory to have a register of long-term vegetation is not complied with and that such are cut down only exceptionally after the examination. At the moment, this debate is continuing, accompanied by a protest against the cutting of trees. Hundreds of trees have already been cut down in the city under this pretense. The question, by the way, is asked another July month. Please answer me: Under the terms of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" is the cutting of long-term wood vegetation acceptable? Is such an event embedded in the approved projects and does the Operational Programme support actions related to the deforestation of urban areas in general? This has really become a serious problem and is the main justification of the municipal administration for cutting down trees, namely that projects must be implemented or could not be implemented unless trees are cut down, and these are old trees, more than 50 years old. I've been impressed by the fact that new ones have been planted in places, a lot of which have even dried up, so please, Mr. Minister, answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on 12 July 2018 the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme lv. And the second is: the educational infrastructure in the town of Shumen with a grant amount of about 12.7 million. lv. The first project includes activities related to reconstruction and rehabilitation of pedestrian lanes and pavements; construction of bicycle paths and pedestrian zones; establishment of playgrounds; installation of park furniture; creation of conditions for access of disabled people; introduction of energy efficient lighting of parks and interblock spaces and other accompanying activities. According to the approved investment projects annexed to the grant agreement with the managing authority, for sites of green area to "Diagnostic-consultative center I" Shumen. "Stationary" and "Stationary" The plantation of deciduous wood vegetation, as well as deciduous and coniferous shrub vegetation, is at stake. In relation to the request received, the managing authority has carried out a verification of the documentation available and has established that the investment projects have been agreed and approved under the provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area and Under-Law, with construction permits issued and entered into force by the Chief Architect of Shumen Municipality. In addition, prior to the preparation of the investment project, the municipality had a public discussion related to the choice of the idea of the best volume spatial solution for each of the sites of intervention under the project. It should be borne in mind that, under the Law on Construction in the Area, each contracting entity has the possibility, if justified, to carry out activities in the removal of wood vegetation, and is obliged, obliged, underlining, to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements, coordination procedures and relevant discussions. At present, the Managing Authority has not received any signals regarding the implementation of the above-mentioned project, but you should bear in mind that the expenditure under the Operational Programme is carried out under strict control and compliance with European and national rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u196	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! As far as I can tell from your answer, Shumen municipality has not agreed with you the cutting of these trees. As you said, during the rehabilitation of the technical infrastructure, a number of pavements were renovated, only the renovation of these pavements was accompanied by the disappearance of long-standing trees. They're just gone. There are already tiles there, because for one reason or another the municipal administration has so decided that they should not be there, and without the necessary discussion even with citizens or with specialists on this topic. Such protocols were subsequently made. Since you said that to date the managing authority has not been referred to, consider my question an official referral on this subject and do the necessary verification, because as a result of these cuts in the city there was also a public discussion, which had quite sharp comments, including, not to say, scandals between the municipal administration and the noisy citizens. The session room was full, and so was I. This is an extremely serious matter. I say again, check this thing out, check how these activities have been carried out and whether this fits European legislation, because, again, I am telling you, including where new trees have been planted, they have dried up. I don't know how to do this thing, if they've been replaced, but it's the fact that trees that were planted tens of years ago, then the dendronic characteristic of trees wasn't considered as seriously. Saddens are species that someone thinks are interfering with the lipstick I'm talking about. Mostly limes have cut out in Shumen, which I do not see how they contribute to the deterioration of the quality of life in the city, so, Minister, I expect the managing authority to rule in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, of course we accept your question as a signal. The Managing Authority will be formally referred to today. My colleagues had prepared some additional information on the subject. According to information from the mayor of Shumen Municipality, trees planted on the sidewalks, so-called street landscaping, are 50 years old. For most of them this is a limit age, that is, they have reached the maximum habit. In places the pavements are heavily compromised pavement with bumps, raised and split pavement tiles and curbs from the powerful root system of the trees and fully occupied by their roots. All this makes the sidewalks absolutely impenetrable, and this in turn leads to non-compliance with the requirements for an accessible environment. The high and wide crown of trees creates problems due to its proximity to electrical wires, facades and roof structures of nearby buildings, penetration of roots into the foundations and undermining them, as well as cracking of their adjacent walls. In relation to art. 62, para. 10 of ZUT and according to Art. 43, para. 2, p. 1 of the Ordinance on the construction and conservation of the green system in the territory of Shumen Municipality are issued orders for the removal of sick and dry trees that endanger the lives and property of the citizens of the municipality. Other tree removal orders are issued according to art. 43, para. 2, p. 3 of the Ordinance on the construction and conservation of the green system in the territory of the municipality of Shumen. With the funds of the municipality are built parking spaces on different streets. In accordance with art. 43, para. 2, p. 3 of the Regulation for the construction and conservation of the green system in the territory of Shumen municipality were issued orders for removal of trees which were impossible to preserve. The above problems with the existing long-term vegetation, which has not been maintained and is in very poor condition, have led the municipality to the need for rehabilitation and their replacement. It is precisely in this direction that the implementation of the project, which I quoted in my reply. The municipality of Shumen has provided for a compensatory according to their information landscaping 1:2 "Cut off to forested in autumn 2018 and spring 2019." So far, they have been planted according to information from the municipality 296 new ornamental wood species and more than 2900 decorative-chrastic vegetation. It is planned in the autumn of 2018 landscaping with more ornamental tree-hungry species in the green system, interblock spaces and parks of the town of Shumen. The Shumen's autumn occurs in about 18 days. Really, you're right, we take your question as a signal. Today I will also refer to the managing authority as a minister in resignation to begin an inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u199	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to a question from the MPs Dora Yankova and Ivan Dimov Ivanov about the water supply in the municipality of Aksakovo, Varna. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the question we are asking before you has been raised before us as members of the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government by representatives of the local institution Panorama. Panoram I and II in the municipality of Aksakovo and residents of the village of Kranevo. The colleague Ivan Dimov Ivanov is absent and I will take the opportunity on our behalf to put the question to you. The owners themselves have two years of correspondence with the state administration, including with your office of ministry, and your sub-servient institutions............................................................................................. For two years due to landslides the water has been shut down and they have problems. Two years of interinstitutional correspondence. Naturally, there is a growing anger.. they believe that there are no steps forward for these two years, and asked us here in the Bulgarian Parliament to raise the question, to listen to you. What do you think and what measures will be taken? Is there any hope of a road map or a solution, or is there going to be an interinstitutional correspondence that I have and will not give it to you because I hope you have one in the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! "ViK" "Varna" Ltd. calls the water supply in August to some of the subscribers "about 50 pcs, in the villa zone "Kranevo" and local formations "Panoram" I, II and III, located along the international road E 87 (the road I-9) in the section between resort complex "Golden Sands" and the village of Kranevo, the municipality of Aksakovo, Varna, due to the increased emergency situations in the water pipeline in which water has been submitted to the abovementioned settlement formations, and the activation of the landslide processes. Taking into account the problems related to the adverse consequences of the active landslide processes occurring in the section, an interdepartmental working meeting was organized with representatives of the "Railway Infrastructure" Agency, Municipality of Varna, Municipality of Aksakovo, Municipality of Balchik, Regional Administration Not to transfer the ball as I felt the thesis, but because these are the competent institutions for solving the problem. The meeting was held on 7 March 2018 at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and it was made the following findings. First of all, at the moment the processes affecting the landslide circus are active - 30 million tons of land mass are destabilized and moving towards the sea, which makes any entry of people, machinery and equipment into the landslide dangerous. Secondly, the strengthening of landslides in that territory by traditional engineering methods is technically impossible and economically unjustified due to the activity of global landslide processes affecting huge territory, the danger of increasing the speed of movement and the risk of catastrophic manifestation of landslide processes in a larger territory than the currently affected. Earth mass movements are monitored periodically with specialized engineering geology equipment. Thirdly, the presence of deep open cracks makes the passage of humans and technology dangerous across the affected territory. In fourth place, in the region of Panorama....I, II and III....the domestic waters are poured into septic pits. You know what changes and with the cooperation of the MPs plus the leadership of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works we have introduced to ZUT where we do not have a built sewerage - rainy and domestic, in landslide areas to ban construction. After all, we're talking about inherited cases. Bit water, I repeat, is poured into septic pits that are not waterproof and do not comply with current legislation. Byte sewers and water from frequent plumbing accidents are constantly watering the landslides, which contributes to even greater activation and expansion of landslide processes in the area. The water supply pipeline, the Panoram, is etherite (Azbestocymentov), which was built in the 1960s, has many accidents and has been compromised. According to monitoring measurements carried out in 2017, after the stop of the water supply, it is noted that the rate of displacement of the land masses is almost three times lower than that established in 2016. At present, the water supply in the area cannot be restored. The plumbing cannot be restored along its current route and the construction of any new plumbing without accompanying sewerage would be an ineffective measure which would lead to a new activation of landslide processes given the outpouring of domestic water from households. In accordance with art. 17, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast 17, para. 1 of the LOC, a change in the purpose of agricultural land falling within the area "A" and zone "B" and the establishment or extension of urbanised territories or the construction of individual or group of land properties is allowed only if this is provided for by an entry into force common construction plan in the respective territory of the municipality and approved under the order of the LOC a detailed development plan of the municipality of Aksakovo. The municipality of Aksakovo is in the process of developing a common structure of the municipality, which provides for the inclusion of that territory in the urbanised territory. After the approval of the ODP of the municipality of Aksakovo, PUPs will be made with the relevant water and sewerage plans, transport infrastructure and so on, as will be done the necessary studies, analyses and calculations. In view of the activity of the landslide processes in the territory, only emergency drainage events may be carried out, if proven necessary, and therefore monitoring measurements are to be carried out in the area of the stop Clearly aware of the complexity of the situation, this year the MRRB commissioned the development of an engineering hydrological report and detailed legal filming, which will provide output data for subsequent design. I mentioned three, four sentences, and I'll save more for my douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u204	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Minister, the same written question, only not from you personally, from your subordinates have these people. It is clear that there are serious landslide problems in Bulgaria. As far as I know, you have a landslide register in the Ministry. We were just talking about the smolyan, the Varna is no less the one is 25 thousand. cubic meters, the other is 30,000. These are huge landslide processes. When we adopted the Budget Act here, our parliamentary group offered about 150 million more for landslides. You, as a ruling majority, your parliamentary group and others who supported, are fleeing from such financial resources to be mobilised and to resolve these issues which lead to what? Here, I have a correspondence in which citizens say: "We have a feeling that citizens and civil servants live in war, that nothing is done for us and these are problems that they know them. " - They insist on a more honest approach. In 2016, they were told in a letter that in 2017 there would be, funds for the Project for Engineering Research and for an investment project. You are now saying today in 2018 that there will again be such a project. You have a lot of people on the ground, district managers, representatives of the departments that are subordinate to you, road management, geodefense in Varna, including the water supply, which is an important factor. I think with more flexible modern forms, these two years, these people with some sort of temporary solution could have had water supply. And in parallel to looking for a more strategic solution for such an investment project. I'm not happy with the answer I'm telling you, you must be willing to mobilize the resource, but take out the district manager to go face to face to face to look at these people, to meet them, to tell them. Consider these things and do not justify that interinstitutional this is not known. After all, this is Borisov's third government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. A hole, will there be a Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, yes, third government Borisov and in the previous two, and this, I will declare responsibly that on the topic of Geosaprotective not only as a financial resource and prevention of all those landslide abrasive processes, but also as a regulatory institutional action has done the most. And if we're talking about governments, I want to ask you when they're built and how are they allowed to be built in a landslide area these buildings, how and when without sewerage, septic pits? Our main goal, and yours, I am convinced as a normist, is to preserve people's health and lives. You know a similar landslide of its integrity and scope I can give a lot of information about landslides and landslides throughout the region. You have information, too. [[The President reminds us that the time has passed.]] I'm done. We're not talking about transferring responsibility between institutions, ordering the governor to meet up with you. And I have eyes to meet these people, too. The head of the water supply, the director of Varna, must also meet with these people to explain without politicizing, without Speculating with the topic what is really the problem and what could happen? And it's going to happen, you're convinced if it's being watered right now. I've also read the data -- three times slower activation, slow motion of the landslide processes on the slope after the water supply is stopped. We didn't sit around and do nothing. I can't accept that criticism. I mentioned what actions were made as a road map and as specific assignments of geological analysis and hydrogeological research as the basis of future design and lasting strengthening. For the financial resource you are many rights there, there is nothing to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u207	Thank you, dear Minister. The following is a question from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov and the MP Lyubomir Bonev concerning the construction of a transport link between road I-6 and the central city of Pernik in the area of communication hub. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u208	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the construction of a transport link between road I-6 and the central city of Pernik in the area of communication hub The aim of the project is to improve the quality of life, to optimize the organization of the movement of the town of Pernik and to increase access and connections within the town of Pernik and its peripheries. The plan for the regulation and construction of the town of Pernik 2013 with the decision of the municipal council was changed because of the construction of the route. The plan for the development of the Municipality of Pernik for the period 2014-2020 and the construction of the transport link also provides for an indicative indicative indicative value. Dear Minister, the construction of a transport link at a communication hub.. Marina Bar.... the town of Pernik is possible to unblock traffic in this part of the city as well as for the rapid and safe movement of all participants in the movement. Our question to you is: are the means to build the connection envisaged and what time will the relationship be built?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u209	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is acquainted with the updated Plan for the Development of the City of Pernik 2007 - 2013, which provides for the construction of a 150 meters long track and a circular intersection in the area of the communication hub. It is about creating a direct right road link on Republican road I-6 in the direction from Sofia to the street network of the town of Pernik. The existing road node does not include this connection due to the nearby railway line Sofia "Radomir," which is located less than 15 meters from the Republic road. In view of the fact that he is involved in the features of the town of Pernik and with a decision of the Municipal Council, the plan for regulation and construction has changed in order to increase accessibility and links in the urbanised territory of the city, including its peripheries. The realization of the investment intention is within the competence of the municipality of Pernik. However, the MPRB and in particular the API, in order to ensure the safety of the movement and within its policy on improving the road infrastructure, will make efforts, together with the municipality, again, I repeat, the responsibility in this case, without transferring it, you are well aware of the specific section and the site of Pernik Municipality, API will make efforts to assist the implementation of this extremely important project for the municipality, including with financial resources in the next year, when the revenue from the toll is expected to actually give the API opportunities to increase both the volume and quality of the road sites implemented in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u211	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Bonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, building a communication link at the Marina Bar is important not only for residents in the central city of Pernik, but also for the majority of residents in the district. It will not only ensure quick access to businesses in the enlarged centre of the district city, but will also unblock traffic to the central city. If this 150-meter segment were built, it wouldn't have been necessary for much of the light and heavy goods vehicles to pass, really passing at the present time, literally, through the center of Pernik and forming columns along the already unsupported streets of the city anyway. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, Pernik has become one way or another a place to live many inhabitants, Perniks, who travel to the capital every day for work. In the peak hours, the passage of the newly built connections, possibly on your part, although you have made the commitment, we hope that next year will happen, when the possible adoption of the tol system. Regarding the capacity of Pernik Municipality, we will not even comment on it in 2014. Yes, I allow myself to say this, Mr. Minister, we have repeatedly asked you questions about the infrastructure of Pernik region. Transferring responsibility, I mean, including this precinct, you can say it in the back. These are precisely those sections of the road, which are transferred the responsibility for whose property it will be, will it be the state's or will it be the municipality's? Yes, I know it is clearly written in a ministerial decree that it is in urbanized territory, but in this case the municipality transfers responsibility to API. Therefore, our question is addressed directly to the API. We hope that with your help and with the help of the API and the Regional Ministry, things will happen as soon as possible, and you yourself said this year, which is coming to be able to build. I'm telling you again this road node is vital, at the very least it's going to cut down on the city's harmful emissions and unblock traffic. Pernik is a city for which there are only two stops, which in peak hours are almost inaccessible and there are endless traffic jams. So hopefully, you made the commitment to make things happen within the next year. We'll ask you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u213	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, only one thing I can't believe is that you accused me of transferring responsibility. [[Heckling]] By the way, we have had conversations with you, with Krasimir Velchev, a Member of the National Assembly, as well, and with the management of Pernik Municipality, that yes, in the presence of a resource from 2019, I mentioned what line we will cooperate on. But what will your colleague Nikola Dinkov say, who will shortly ask me about lighting a Republican road and a road node, or colleague Gokov, or colleague Antonov, why we don't give money to fix our Republican roads, but give them to municipalities for municipal roads and municipal responsibilities. However, as is said with all due respect to you, thank you for the question, but you are better aware of who has what responsibility in this case. And for that reason, we've had the necessary meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u215	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to you today is a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov about the lighting of the road hub..Pustrogor............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u216	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I see that you are already tired, and it is normal, because today you have taken two thirds of the parliamentary control. Therefore, in asking the question, I will be brief, but I hope for a positive answer. My question to you is about the lighting of a road node, Pistrogor, about the entrance of the town of Svilengrad from the highway of Maritsa. Dear Minister, during the execution of the highway "Maritsa" the lighting of a road node was not fulfilled "Pistrogor" of the MM Maritsa, for Svilengrad. This node is the entrance to Svilengrad, according to the section of the M.M. Maritsa. This knot is very important from the point of view that Svilengrad is the entrance door of Europe and because of its location is visited by extremely many foreigners. In recent years in Svilengrad, many foreign investments have been made in the field of entertainment, hotel, service, tourist, historical and it is normal for this thing to be done. Moreover, when citizens enter Svilengrad, the entry mark for the city is extremely scarce. My question to you is: when will the lighting of the road hub be performed? I know that there has been a project drawn. Its value is not great, but this issue is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. For your answer, Mr. Nankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, I wonder if I should read what my API colleagues have prepared for me. During the construction of the highway from km 5+000 to km 70+620 and from km 111+980 to km 117+345 between 2011 and 2015, in accordance with the provisions of the technical project, there was built street lighting of the road units. There is no street lighting performed on the road hubs of Lyubimets, a new village and a new village of Pistrogor. You ask specifically about Pistrogor, as no such prescription has been laid in the design documentation. I'm going to open a clamp not from my prepared answer. Ordinance No 1, which I commented on in the last week, and two years is being developed a working group by the Ministry, for road design, sets the obligation, the construction requirement for road nodes not only on highways, but also on first-class and speed roads to be built with lighting. In this step are taken the legal ones that are in charge. Here I mentioned the three road nodes - not yet provided for under project documentation - building lighting. The practice of lighting the road nodes on the newly constructed sections of the Republican road network with a view to improving traffic safety has been adopted in recent years, but when you have no obligation, why include it as we see it? There is already a statutory obligation.. Within days Regulation No 1 must be published in the Official Journal. Particularly with regard to the road hub Pistrogor.. When crossing the highway Maritsa " with the first-class road II-55," the opinion of competent experts has been taken, according to which the construction of outdoor lighting in the area of the quoted road node will significantly improve the orientation of the drivers of motor vehicles when identifying the characteristics of the road and the adjacent infrastructure and will therefore increase the safety of the traffic during the dark part of the day. The road node is located in close proximity to the regulatory boundaries of Svilengrad and ensures the infusion and casting from the motorway of intensive regional and transit traffic. Due to the proximity to Svilengrad, there is a technical possibility to include road node lighting to the city power grid. For 2018 there were no funds provided, but because we are currently preparing the 2019 budget.. the annual forecast, I am telling you very strongly that this section will be included. I suppose this will happen at the time of the submission of a forecast to the Ministry of Finance and while I am a resigned minister, the financing of the construction of the knot will be included. There is a project you are right about, it just needs to be awarded and in 2019 it needs to be implemented. The joy from now on is that all such road nodes will be designed with mandatory lighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u219	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Dinkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u220	Dear Minister, it's surprising you say there was no lighting project. I had other information from the supervision he worked on the highway. But that's not so important. More importantly, I will add to this question two other issues which are much commented in the municipality, since we are still in a strategic place. Before Captain Andreevo's largest checkpoint, this lighting was not performed, the third band before the checkpoint was not executed, the soundproof fence for the village of Kapitan Andreevo was not executed. Perhaps at one of the next parliamentary control sessions they will be asked, as the voters have asked them to me and I am obliged to place them before you for a solution. Thank you for your reply, that for next year will be included and I hope that next year those who visit Svilengrad and the citizens of Svilengrad will have a well-lit entrance to the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Will there be a hole, Minister? No. We continue with the last You have also received a round of applause for today's work in the National Assembly. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I thought they were for Mr. Nankov after all, and he deserves a round of applause. Question from the National Representative Dora Yankova on the National Energy Efficiency Programme. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u222	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Minister Nankov, my question is about the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings, which is still active in its echo because the latest projects are being implemented.................................................... the last projects are being implemented.....................................in this financial resource............................................................................................................................................... BGN, which parliament sanctioned twice. In front of us, however, there are questions as MPs. Including associations, both mayors, and district governors, who are even from the Political Party GERB, raise the following questions. Under this programme, according to its rules, 2000 have also joined, nearly 2500 associations have signed contracts with municipalities and regional governors, are deposited in the Bulgarian Development Bank and still do not have an answer. My question is here, from the platform of parliament, to illuminate, to say what will be done with these contracts, which have been deposited with the Bulgarian Development Bank. "The Association of Owners, Mayors and Regional Managers are waiting for an answer. And in particular: how many are there? Perhaps additionally, if you decide, in writing next week to tell me from the various areas how many there are. That is the question that is important. It generates even tensions... hopefully you feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u223	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings is implemented on the basis of Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2 February 2015 and takes place in two stages. Stage one "Application." It shall include the registration of the Owners' Association and the submission of an application for interest and financial assistance. Within the meaning of the application, no financial commitment arises at this stage but establishes the eligibility of the applicant multi-family residential building according to the criteria set out in the Methodical Guidelines for the Implementation of the Programme and aims to legally engage the Owners' Association, taking into account the expenditure of public resources for its benefit, on the one hand, and, on the other, the mayor of the municipality, as his proxy, in the process of energy renovation of the building. After carrying out the complex assessment, this stage ends with the conclusion of a contract between the municipality and the Owners' Association. In relation to the question I inform you that the contracts between the Association of Owners and Municipalities in Bulgaria are a total of 5037 pieces. They are financed within the resources available, and according to the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 18 and the Methodical Guidelines the duration of the Programme can be extended in the case of financial resources. That was not only the debate, but the ones that were embarrassing themselves when the program started. The first time the first of the law until the available resource is exhausted, which can be increased. You know, once it's been increased, there's a second billion. The second phase contains the conclusion of a Target Financing Treaty and the implementation of energy efficiency measures. The target funding contract is concluded between the mayor of the municipality in his capacity as proxy of the Association of Owners, the Regional Governor and the Bulgarian Development Bank. The signing of the Target Financing Treaty gives rise to a commitment to make a financial commitment to finalise all the energy renovation activities of the multi-family residential building. At present, a total of 2022 targeted funding contracts have been concluded and a financial commitment has been made for these buildings and a financial resource totaling 2 billion. leva. Given that not all activities of the contracts concluded for targeted financing with the Bulgarian Development Bank have been agreed and implemented, information on free financial resources cannot be provided at this stage up to the amount of the total foreseen. The reports show that the available financial resource will be renovated all 2022 residential buildings for which there are contracts for targeted financing with the BBI. There are options for the continuation of the Programme for energy renovation of the housing fund, not only in relation to the other 3015 buildings for which contracts are concluded with municipalities, but for all those in need of renovation. To this end, we need a completely new, more sustainable mechanism for financing the renovation of housing in Bulgaria. The new conditions for further continuation of the Programme are the subject of a broad public debate in which we welcome any concrete proposals. You are right I will provide you with more detailed information not only about those who have concluded a contract with the municipalities, those who have been submitted to the BBI, that is, approved as eligibility and waiting. A little more information and statistics about the housing fund, the panel, and not only its needs for energy renovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u226	Honourable Madam President, Ministers! Minister Nankov, 2015 At the start of the National Program, we challenged a debate and told you that the Programme is neither national nor solidarity. And that is exactly what we have proposed - a broad debate, a road map for the housing fund. Unfortunately, three years later, you came to ours. Perhaps some processes are moving more slowly in the public moods and your view is not yours, but the government's. Now there is the following question:? 2 billion for 2022 blocs. But, look, public resource, civil resource is mobilizing. Administrative, mayor's resource and management district is mobilised to go to the Bulgarian Development Bank 5000, as you said, about 5000 contracts, of which 2022 are funded. Is this bad planning? Yeah, first in law... You could have told these people: we have 2 billion so housing blocks will be. What are we saying today from this tribune to those over 2,500 housing associations who have done their work, but on the National Program? See what the National Association of Municipalities writes next to you January: "For further 2500 buildings the municipalities have concluded contracts with the associations of owners and expect funding. With regard to these buildings, certain expectations have been created. Owners have collaborated under the terms of this programme and expect buildings to be financed under the same conditions. So once again, we are asking you to make an effort... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. ...to provide the necessary resources for the financing of these buildings - 2500, which have been deposited. Here you write Daniel Panov: "In this way we will respond to the great public interest and the accumulated tensions in our cities, caused by the ambiguity of the implementation of these already approved contracts. In other words, Budget 2019 is coming. What is the position of your Ministry and in the debate of the Interdepartmental Commission will there be a resource; how will these contracts be financed if the Programme continues? Since the public discussion of the National Strategy for Housing Policy has ended, it is generally declarative, and the behaviour of the Ministry, but the financial resource is another thing. I demand now that you commit to something in front of these people after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u227	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Mrs. Yankova, you know... not to self-assessment, but the correctness of our relationship has always been mutual and difficult to engage in, based on the subject that I am a minister of resignation. Since, by committing myself to anything at the moment, I also put the condition of answering other questions, it would sound even frivolous, let alone in your eyes, let alone the Bulgarian society, that is to say, I could not commit myself to everything at the moment. It won't sound serious, it won't have any weight. One of your opinions is absolutely true. The program could and should have been planned differently. It could and should have been planned! The analysis of how it had to be done, what had to be done one of the mistakes. Why did we only talk in buildings and keep talking in cash buildings? Yes, these are the owners' associations, we can draw from there, but much by objective criteria, the much more objective indicators are in the developed built-up area, even the number of households. These are on objective measurable indicators. The number of buildings you know were the large panel buildings, 16% of the residents in the panel fund are the inhabitants of those 2022 that fell within the scope of the current financial resource, but all with the condition of a large It's a good thing we have a similar position. Yes, the housing strategy as it will be adopted must be adopted in this form. You know well that public discussion will be the framework for a much more serious process, not just another or third programme, such as the tools for carrying out the end of this housing policy. Because housing policy is not measured only... you are very well aware of it and I am convinced, Mr. Ermenkov, of the energy efficiency of the house. The theme is much more complex and more global, so it is nice to have the framework as a strategy, not as another document. By the way, it is well done with very controversial texts in it as policies. There must be achieved a more serious consensus, a balance in both political and public terms, so that the country does not have to regulate private property long-term with this strategy. These are, however, relationships between the owners' associations and between the floor owners and between the individual neighbours. But to what extent the state must intervene and regulate this process, on the basis of it, long-term and sustainable, I would like to emphasise the tools for making this housing policy, including tools for improving the energy performance of these buildings, as the national programme is only one of these instruments. We also had a few attempts with UNDP funding as a dimension, but with good practices. Yeah, there was co-financing, we knew how it started. I must also point out that Smolyan was an honorary student back in the day. There again started a European programme where they had good practices and buildings implemented under the first UNDP programme. It was going smoothly, despite the co-financing. Maybe that was one of the mistakes? For me personally, to finance and 100% public resources in private property. But these are topics that, in a debate from now on, including in budgetary frameworks, you are also right, but if you ask me in this order, with all the responsibility of the words I stand behind, you should not continue the programme in this form. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u229	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Nankov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. You've received a round of applause, Mr. Secretary. The last question about today's parliamentary control is to Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Philip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev and Pencho Milkov about the actions taken to prevent accidents on the road Ruse.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we have repeatedly witnessed serious accidents in the Ruse section "White from the Ruse Road" Veliko Tarnovo. For years this section of Ruse is a nickname with sad fame for accidents. You also confirmed this in your reply during parliamentary control on 13 July 2018. Then you even called us why are we not asking you a question about this section?! As long as the prevention of road accidents is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Interior, our question to you is: what measures has the Ministry of Interior taken to prevent accidents in the Ruse section. Just to open a brace to tell you that these measures, which you have proposed in a previous answer to a parliamentary question, will take for the Vidin section, Montana, do not give the necessary effect. Road accidents from weekly accidents have become almost daily. So, Minister, I await your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. For an answer the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Radev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Topchiev, Popov, Milkov, as they say the topic is really up to date, it is really a priority of the government. I, from this tribune, as you mentioned, have answered before, and Minister Nankov just now. In your question you are talking about the road. I'm going to try to limit myself, and that's how you asked me at least that's how I want to understand your question, what does the Ministry of Internal Affairs do, a small part, for example, in control, what do we do? I'm not talking about the road right now, about infrastructure, about vehicles, about drivers. The following measures have been taken specifically on the territory of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Ruse and the section of Ruse from the main road I-5. This may sound like a dry spell, and I will quote to you what we have done: daily preventive action is being carried out, ensuring a police presence at the vulnerable places of road infrastructure. Second, during the weekends and the busy working days of the week, other than the employees of the Road Police (Policies) are also involved. Third, when driving on this I-5 road, control is carried out by noticing aggressive or inadequate driving behaviour, they deviate from the side, start to be preventively checked. For all other drivers on the roads, this is mandatory. Fourth, motorcyclist control is strengthened, focusing on driver's competence, registration of motorcycles, status of signs, registration numbers, use of safety helmets and so on. Five, on a monthly basis, hourly schedules are drawn up and full control is carried out by the employees of the sector "Ruse Road Police".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They patrol three police teams during the day and one police team at night. The work of the mobile technical equipment is activated, police car cameras TFR1, one car patrol from the District Department of Byala and one car patrol from the District Department are installed. Two mounds are installed. From the road police sector at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Ruse is appointed a technical task force with the trinoga "Modern camera KS1" for speed control. The control takes place priorityly near the risk sections on the main road I-V Ruse. I'll even tell you in the area, and citizens will know them: 12th and 13th km, km 15+400, 17 and 22 km. A new generation of stationary and portable radar devices have already been used there. In 24-hour mode, seven days a week, a stationary speed camera Ci Trafik ERS 400 works, which controls the speed in both directions at km 26, and that's what I'm telling you. In 2018, by the Ministry of Interior, the road police department at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Ruse, the District Department of White and Two Mounds were issued over 10 signals to the owner of the road, with the main prescriptions for the condition of the road, horizontal and vertical marking. Your information is certain that there is a complete rehabilitation of the 11th and 26th km stretches of road surface replacement. That leaves the mark, and Minister Nankov just told me about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u233	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Topchiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u234	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I must tell you that I will now thank you for this specific and comprehensive answer. This was not the previous one, so I will now thank you and hopefully all of these measures have the effect of reducing road accidents. There is no way to stop them because it depends on many factors, but prevention is very important and so once again thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Topchiev, I am pleased that I have given you specific information, but because it is very important that I say a few words: that the topic is up to date, it is clear that it is a priority of the government not only of ours, but also of the back, is also clear. We all see what's going on with this war on the road. I want to tell you very responsibly that efforts are being made, and I will even say the numbers: 2017 we have 28 people's lives less than those saved. This year, exactly 25 lives have been saved. I don't want to talk about the victims. Imagine how many hundreds more severely injured, with broken hands, legs and so on, all of this is saved. That's down. We do things in the right direction. For the first time in three years "2016," 2017 and now 2018, we have tightened road violations as far as possible, I say. Maybe the pace isn't good, the dead are down, fewer are down, and I say how many are saved. I look the other way. That is what the government is doing right now, and that is my commitment as head of the Ministry of Interior. And something very important that I want to finish with, and which I mentioned several times: it's almost a small revolution, so let's accept the division of this notorious Road Traffic Act. We all suffer, I'm a guide, and I walk the roads, I always watch out, and I try to get on the highway. We divide the Law into three: one Law, which I don't know if there is another Law, maybe the Labour Code, has been so changed over the years. We're doing it now, hopefully the control continues in this direction. At least the party I suppose mine will make the control to come to the Ministry of Interior. This is the new Road Traffic Act, which we discussed in advance in four cities before even discussing official ones. Then we have a Law on Guides and a Law on Means of Transport. Nankov told you about the roads and there are changes. If we do this, I am sure that we may not achieve these successes, but we may be able to halve those victims, which are 682 last year, as we strive, to be 300, 400, but surely the direction is correct. All of us, and you, I suppose, from all the parliamentary groups, are ready and I hope that in Parliament they will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-05.u237	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question about today's parliamentary control. Let's thank Minister Radev for his participation today. Due to the exhaustion of parliamentary control issues, I am adjourned. Regular plenary session on 12 September at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
