ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u1	Dear colleagues, there is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional item in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: the first vote of the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and the conduct of sports events, with the importer Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs, and I propose to become a third item for today's meeting, and the third item of the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Roads, with the importer of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, to be removed from the Programme for Work of the National Assembly. The reasons for dropping the point were a conversation with Minister Nankov, who is prevented and unable to attend the discussion and failure to comply with part of the procedures under the Rules of Procedure. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: 104 against 11, abstention 55. The offer is accepted. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday it was publicly announced to the whole country that the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will come here today to explain to the Bulgarian public what is happening and what measures the government will eventually take. I think it is also necessary to regulate this debate how it should be, because it is normal for the opposition to have questions to convince us and, above all, not so much as convince us, as the Bulgarian public, that they can really deal with this situation, which is the fact that it is getting out of control. Today, however, we understand that the two ministers will not come. The problem, Mr. President, is that yesterday Minister Radev simply lied to the whole country, saying that he had almost received support from all the political forces, something that is not true. That is why we asked for the shorthand of the two meetings, in which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Bulgarian Socialist Party clearly stated that the government should do its commitment that this is not the work of the Bulgarian Parliament. If they want support, to bring in the necessary bill so that they can receive this support, but to support the Minister to support him that in the morning he gets up and goes to work, this is not part of our obligations. That is why we want this minister, who lied to all Bulgarian citizens that he received support yesterday, at 8:00 a.m. on all media, to come here and explain exactly what he meant. Because if he doesn't come, then we, as MPs, will be forced to publish this transcript and give it to the media in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u3	Mr. Stoinev, what's the procedure? I don't understand. You've been talking for almost two minutes and I don't understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u4	The procedure is to invite the two ministers to come and regulate the debate on how to hold this hearing. 113, be with questions and attitude on the part of all forces. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We will talk to the ministers, but you know that the situation in the area is extremely complicated and their presence there will probably be much more useful and appropriate than their presence here. Mr. Tsvetanov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoinev! The parliamentary day starts today at 9:00 and ends at 2:00 p.m. No one has said for any reason that Minister Porozanov and Minister Radev will not come to plenary today. So if you work until 9:30 and you think whoever came, came and the following topics cannot be commented [[(Applause from GERB and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] , I think it is not serious and is neglecting parliamentary activity. Just so you know, Minister Radev and Minister Porozhanov will be here, will be here today, in Parliament as well as in the debate that will be held with the Prime Minister, as well as then they will be concerned with the topics that you put just minutes ago. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Tsvetanov! I have a question for you: are you two talking? With the chairman right now? The chairman of the meeting has just informed me that today the two ministers will not come to parliament and there will be no hearing. [[Noise, lines and shouts "Oooh!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can you two talk and figure out what we're doing today?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Ninova, if they are prevented, how can they come? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CHANGE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. It was introduced by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will present Mr. Ademov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Social Security Code, No 854-01-49, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 18 July 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Social Security Code, No 854-01-49, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions. at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Asya Goneva, National Secretary of the National Insurance Institute, Valentin Valchev, Chairman of the Independent Trade Unions of Miners of the CST, Lyubomir Stefanov, Chairman of the CST Service Organization in Minnie Bobov dol. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlana Angelova. In the reasons of the bill, importers have recorded that the provision of art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, as amended by the State Social Security Budget Act for 2018, concerns the social character of miners from closed underground mines and those to be closed. In its application they will not be able to acquire the right to early retirement as of 1 January 2018, workers with long-standing underground service whose relationships have been terminated on the basis of art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code. These are: workers, engineers and executives to head of a section including underground workers in underground mines, underground geological research and hydrotechnical sites, tunnel and underground mining works without warning and contrary to the principle of social predictability, miners with long-standing underground service who are terminated on the above grounds or are about to be terminated due to the closure of the underground mine, are left without the possibility to retire even when the required age under art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code if they have not completed it at the time of termination. Thus, they must wait at least 10 years, according to the importers, to obtain a pension right. According to importers, it is not a coincidence that their work is of first category, as far as extremely difficult and dangerous to health and life-threatening working conditions are concerned. At the same time, their pay is insufficient and inadequate with their work, and is often delayed. In order to protect the right to an early pension of those persons, it is imperative to take account of those factors which reflect the need for social protection of workers under the ground. It is also important that, in addition to low wages, their work underground is mainly in shifts, miners also live under unusually good social and household conditions. The proposed retirement opportunity under art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code covers persons who work or have worked under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Social Security Code and which are already terminated for one reason or another, not dependent on their will, including the insolvency of their employer, if they have a sum of internships and 90 points of age, of which 10 years of internship laid down under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3, and completed age 45 years and 4 months as of 31 December 2017. This possibility of early retirement is an expression of social justice and predictability that must be applied in the future and to cover workers in the mines to be closed. The Members of the National Assembly have made a preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed bill, stating that the draft aims to regulate public relations on the occasion of the acquisition of a pension right by some of the persons working under the conditions of first category of work in order to protect their social rights most fully. Urgent legislative changes are needed because with the amendment of art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code with the State Social Security Budget Act 2018 in force from 1 January 2018, the possibility of retiring redundant miners from liquidated or liquidated underground mines on the basis of the above norm has been reduced. The bill would not impose an excessive burden on the budget of state social security, as the persons concerned by the change are not numerous, but also the amendment corresponds to fair social protection, as it provides for the possibility of retiring miners with terminated relationships for one reason or another, not dependent on their will, including the insolvency of their employer. In this regard Mrs. Svetlana Angelova added that about 16 000 BGN will be needed. monthly in order to pay the pensions of the miners who will retire if the bill is adopted. In conclusion, it proposed, given the urgency of the Bill, that it be adopted in two readings in one plenary session, reflecting the proposal made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to replace the words. The Commission received and provided the importers of the Draft and the members of the Commission with opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour On 28 June 2018, a report and a report were received to the Commission from the Committee on Insurance Relations of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation on 25 June 2018. They show that there is no unanimity on the bill. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports, in principle, the bill tabled and draws attention to the fact that the proposed change does not fully realise the objective with which the provision of § 4, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code - from 1 January 2016 to art. 69b, para. 4 of the CSR, namely to grant a pension to persons made redundant due to the restructuring of the coal industry, who are currently in continuous service, including underground and who are over the age limit for re-qualification. The opinion of the National Insurance Institute draws attention to the funds that would be necessary to secure the implementation of the Bill. According to the NSI, it should be borne in mind that according to data from their information system as of April 2018 in the mining industry, including coal mining, metal ores, decorative rock materials and other non-metallic materials and raw materials, mandatory provision of work under the conditions of the first category of work is subject to around 2,400 persons. About 15 percent of them have already exercised their pension rights and receive one, with the average basic amount of pension for this population of persons being BGN 633. About 96 percent of them receive a retirement pension for internship and age. In the event of the entry into force of a bill, the persons entitled shall be covered by the first category of work provided in those activities by the mining industry, to which no public benefit pension has been granted at present. These are about 2,000 people, of which 1110 in 2018 are over or will be 45 years old, i.e. would satisfy the age requirement laid down in the Bill. The National Insurance Institute also emphasizes the fact that the draft version of art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code does not bind the acquisition of the right to a pension to the cumulative existence of the requirements for completed age, internship, points, sum of age and internship, and termination of the employment relationship on any of the special grounds under art. 328, para. I, t. 1 or t. 2 of the Labour Code. Therefore, in addition to those persons, the provision will be able to benefit from other persons who are currently uninsured persons whose employment contracts have been terminated due to the restructuring of the sector concerned at some earlier time when they did not fulfil the conditions for completed age and/or points. In the conservative assessments made by the National Insurance Institute, the additional cost of paying pensions to persons who will benefit from their pension rights under the new order, governed by the proposed bill, is between 350 and 600 thousand leva per month or between 4 and 7 million leva per year. The cost varies depending on the number of persons for whom the following conditions have been met cumulatively: firstly, they are not granted a pension; secondly, their employment contracts have been terminated on that basis and on the date of termination have not complied with the statutory conditions for age and/or points; thirdly, they are not currently provided under the conditions of first category of work in those mining activities. The opinions of the union organizations are opposite. The CST does not support the Bill. Even in its motives, they find that there are unfounded allegations, such as that the Bill decides the rights of miners who are currently working in the conditions laid down by importers and that without this legislative amendment they lose rights. According to the CST, the existing text of art. 69 b, para. 4 of the CSR decides the case. The right of retirement under that provision concerns persons who, at the date of termination of the contract on the relevant grounds, work under the ground in the appointed posts and at the same time meet the conditions laid down in the norm for internship and age. This is a general rule and principle of insurance for all insured persons and there are no grounds for only a certain group of persons, whatever their number, to make exceptions to benefit them. It is supported by the Confederation of Labour on the grounds that it will restore the principle of social predictability. In its opinion, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry does not object to the Bill, but explicitly notes that the preliminary assessment lacks specific information on the necessary annual funds, which will possibly be spent on the early retired persons. This information is necessary regardless of the findings made in the reasoning that the number of those persons is not high, as the provision of such data is required in the preliminary impact assessment carried out. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria also shares compliance with the principles of social justice and predictability, but express concerns about the necessity of the 132th amendment in CSR. They demand a more convincing financial justification for the bill. According to them, it is not acceptable to carry out the additional costs subsequent to the proposed bill, as the consolidated budget of state social security is not just overly burdened, but is in constant deficit. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria does not accept the annual coverage of this deficit with additional, significant amounts of transfers from the central or state budget. In the discussion took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Georgi Gokov and Hasan Ademov. It included representatives of trade union organizations, miners' representatives and representatives of the invited institutions. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending the Social Security Code, No 854-01-49, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Ms. Angelova's opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the bill we offer editing of art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, which enables early retirement of persons whose employment contracts have been terminated on the basis of art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, which work or have worked under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Social Security Code, if they have a sum of internships and 90 years of age, of which 10 years of internship under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 and 45 years and 4 months old as at 31 December 2017. The current provision of art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code, as amended by the State Social Security Budget Act for 2018, concerns the social rights of miners from closed underground mines and those who are about to be closed. In its implementation, they will not be able to obtain the right to early retirement as of 1 January 2018, workers with long-standing underground service whose relationships have been terminated due to the liquidation of the mine and those whose closure is imminent. These are workers, engineers and executives to head of a section including, employed underground in underground mines, in underground geological research and hydrotechnical sites, in tunnel and underground mining. Miners with years of underground service who are terminated or are about to be terminated due to the closure of the underground mine are left without the possibility to retire even when the required age under art. 69b, para. 4 of the Social Security Code if they have not completed it at the time of termination of the employment relationship. So they have to wait at least 10 years to get a pension. It is not a coincidence that mining is of the first category, as far as extremely difficult and life-threatening working conditions are concerned, and at the same time with insufficient and inadequate remuneration, which is often delayed. Last but not least, these persons are terminated for one reason or another, not dependent on their will, including the insolvency of the employer. Because of the duration of their underground work experience, these people are counting on being able to retire when the mines are closed. The persons affected by the change are not numerous, and their retirement would not impose an excessive burden on the budget of state social security, but would, at the same time, fully protect their pension rights, and it would result in the establishment of social justice corresponding to their work. According to the data of the National Insurance Institute and Minis, we are talking about 80 persons who will meet the conditions for early retirement if the change in the Social Security Code is accepted. The cost is not that great, it can be overcome without increasing the deficit of state social security. In order to protect the right to an early pension of the abovementioned persons, it is imperative to take account of those factors which have an impact on the need for social protection of workers under the ground. Mr. Chairman, I have an editorial amendment in § 1 sentence 2 of art. 69b, para. 4 namely the words "after 31 December 2017' shall be replaced by "from 31 December 2017'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is clear that the Bill is consensual and has an attitude to be adopted. Therefore, at the beginning, so that there will be no speculation on the subject again, I will say that I firmly support this change in the Code of Social Security and support it the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. However, I take the floor because of the truth and because of some attempts to speculate in the process of solving the problem, because with this change in the Social Security Code, we are solving the issue of the majority of the problem of the retirement of people - miners who worked under the conditions of the first category of work in underground mines, which are subject to liquidation. I am making this statement not to pick on or rub salt on your head, as it is said, but with the desire in any way to draw attention to you that this is not the way to act that the attitude towards the opposition should not be disparaging and everything we offer you to reject it without getting to the point. I am making this statement in order to draw attention to you in the future, when you are offered something for the benefit of the people, to take into account the substance and not to reject it lightly just because it is proposed by the opposition. Now I'm going to tell you exactly how and why it came to this. The chronology can start as early as 2000, when this model of the pension system was introduced that, even earlier than 1990, when the restructuring of the mining industry in Bulgaria began under the pressure of changing economic principles and labour relations, but I will not do it. I'm not going back that far. However, I would remind you that in 2014, when he was once again managing GERB and again there was tension around the early retirement of the miners, and § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Code of Social Security, whose action expired, then on 29 October 2014, a group of MPs from the then parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria This proposal was the result of the legal settlement of the pension right of persons whose insurance service was placed in whole or in part under the conditions of first and second categories of work, before the introduction from 1 January 2000 of the additional compulsory pension insurance in a professional pension fund, but directly related to the profession of miner. Because the risk to the life and health of the miners is justified by the real possibilities for multiple accidents, events of an extraordinary and accidental nature, which events are external to the human will factor, and occur despite it. Then you of GERB, within the framework of another majority with the Reformation bloc, have been misunderstanding. You have delayed our bill very long, so the budget procedure for 2015 passed, and when the bill was submitted to the first voting room only on 2 July 2015, you rejected it with the known motives. I reminded all of this to make it clear that BSP has always had an understanding of the people of hard labor first category and has always been empathetic to their problems. Without giving any other examples, I came to last year in the budget procedure when you acted in exactly the same way with a misunderstanding. I will not forget to remind you that just then and precisely you, the majority of GERB and the United Patriarchs, have created the problem, which you are now rushing to solve with your inherent senseless enthusiasm, as if someone else has messed up the mess, and you appear as saviors. You will save the miners you put in this position!? When adopting the budget for state social security for 2018, with motives exactly opposite the current ones with which you want the cancellation, through the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget, you have submitted a change to the Code of Social Security with which you deprived the miners of an acquisition, namely that before the changes to the Code of Social Security, art. 69b, t. 4, entered into force from 1 January 2018, it was possible for these same miners to retire after they had dialled the required number of 90 points, were made redundant as miners and had completed 45 years. It has come to the point that after these changes of yours, if a miner is cut short because the mine is closing and he cannot find a job as a first category miner, he will have to look for another job, another category of work, although he has no qualifications for this other job and waits 54 years to retire. Then we warned you that this was an unconventional change in pension legislation, which would in an unacceptable way affect the work and lives of these people, although the importers, then the NSI and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, did not present an analysis and estimate how many people would be affected by it and how much the state would save on the back of the miners. Even then, we have pointed out to you that it is about people with longstanding underground internships, in most cases 25 years or more, who will have to retire in general order, that in this way a large part of the people who have started working under heavy working conditions in the first category and have labored for many years, relying on their special rights to be protected will prove to be deceived and wronged because the legislator, that is, you are changing the rules. In order not to miss, I will note who voted on 8 November 2017 in the first vote and on 29 November 2017 in the second vote. When adopting this amendment, § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which, by the way, contains 35 points, which change at least 35 provisions of the Social Security Code, including the change of art. 69b, t. 4, the group of GERB, the Group of United Patriarchs and Voljas voted for the group of DPS abstentions and the group of BSP for Bulgaria. Come on now, say don't you cause problems to the people, to the Bulgarians in the case of the miners who subsequently decide you as a parliamentary majority and one-person Borisov as a benefactor, or if we pass by to save someone and another lev to the treasury? Well, it didn't! And less and less small-time smarts will pass. It does not pass because at the beginning a problem has been created with the miners of the destroyed mine. It didn't go either because now an employer will not comment on his correctness, decides to close the last underground pit in the country. The management of the mine claims that it will comply with the procedures under labour law, but I still appeal to the competent authorities to check how labour law is respected in this case. Even if the legislation in its current form is respected, these people, who have been cut off from a mine, will be harmed and harmed. And instead of starting to solve the problem immediately, you listened until these people started protesting, turning to the institutions until the Ombudsman made a lot of noise and until the miners threatened with protest actions, and until the Prime Minister ordered you to take measures. Then, you submitted the Ombudsman's proposal for amendments to the Social Security Code and you started explaining how quickly you imported the bill, and BSP had not thought of it. If we had thought of it and brought it in, that would be a guarantee that it would be rejected or totally entertaining. One more thing. The situation would not have been so tragic if the country you have been managing for nine years had adequate action in cases of such liquidations of entire productions and yields when people with inappropriate jobs for other industries and professions and qualifications were left unemployed. They come into the labour market unprepared for its challenges, and the state does not offer them solutions. To warn you! With the digitalization of labour, more traditional professions will drop out and people with inadequate qualifications will be left out of work..................... so adequate action will be needed which you will hardly take. Everyone will be offered appropriate qualifications and work, and for the miners eligible for retirement, they will probably be able to exercise their right to a pension, said the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and the concrete and perspective none. The miners did not believe the words that once they were lied to and went to seek justice all the way to the prime minister, who in this country, supposedly parliamentary, was called to solve all the problems, and from the height of his position, decided after a common meeting between the Ombudsman, the miners and the finance minister for all the cases under way, through instructions from the National Insurance Institute, the problem to be solved whatever that means, and now we are all ready to solve the problem that you caused eight months ago. I'm done! I'm just gonna say hello to the miners for not giving up their rights until the end! Now let us all support the proposed changes. I will confirm the readiness of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and after the first vote of the Bill, if there are no strong requests for changes in the proposed texts, we should put it to a second vote today. If this seems unacceptable to you, I will say again, on condition that the bill is adopted unanimously in the first vote, the time limit until the second vote is three days and that it will enter the second vote as the first item for Thursday of the weekly programme for 25 "27 July 2018. Everything else is unacceptable to the miners of Bobovdol or to us from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you, I expect we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? First line. Mrs. Angelova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, the debate went in the wrong direction as there was some speculation in your speech. You said that you will support the bill and will vote together with the parliamentary group of GERB, the United Patriarchs. Instead of quickly solving the problem of those people who have already been given notice, they are here on the balcony and are waiting for a quick solution to the problem, you have once again turned the debate into a political fair in order to bring some dividends out of this bill [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] because you slept through the time to bring this legislative change first, and now you're angry. [[Applause from GERB.]] I have bothered to go back in time in 2014 and 2015 for this bill that you are talking about, submitted by Maya Manolova, and you have signed. I also read the shorthand of July 2, 2015. Here it is! [[Shows sheets.]] I've printed out your statement as well. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In it, although you are an importer, there is not a single word, not a single sentence in defence of the early retirement of the miners from the closed mines. Not one! There are only general fairy tales of the kind of the service system is in a miserable state, genocide for the Bulgarian pensioners. So you want to downplay the legislative change that we, the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB and of the United Patriarchs. If you want, Mr. Gokov, to be a responsible politician, offer real solutions, not false suggestions. [[Applause from GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. You have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, my colleagues are calling me to be generous. I'll do it. [[GERB lines.]] You messed up a few things. These people are upstairs, they listened to my speech from the first to the last word. I just wanted to make a chronology of what you're doing. I'm telling you again that you're the one who caused this problem. Will someone deny it from the gym? This is what you did with the adoption of the 2018 budget procedure. Then you and your votes read how you voted, introduced this measure and now, when the Ombudsman made a proposal, you recognized it so quickly that I could not react at this speed, Mrs Angelova. It's just... You brought it in right away, only you forgot again, and until these people came here today, really, until they met with the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, you didn't look at it. There must have been a reason, but you were waiting for instructions from the Prime Minister, and now with that line you have only confirmed how right I was in my main statement that you are not taking notice of anything. Instead of pouring ash on your head, saying, "Yeah, we got confused, now we want to fix things because we're hurting these people," you're going on some plane again who was first, who was... Is this a competition, Mrs. Angelova? If you want to look great in the eyes of the people, in the case of the miners, stir up another problem and then solve it again, and you'll be lifeguards. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But I'm sorry, I don't know if that's politics, is that what the National Assembly is about? I don't downplay anyone's credit. I'm, uh, glad you realized what you did, and you're in a hurry to fix it. Just admit that you did it, that you messed things up. Why should we go in the direction of always being us, others not having a say, the opposition being always neglected? Well, you have the initiative, we'll support you here, only people need to know the truth. Who messed with the miners? We're done here. Yeah, who?! [[Shouting from GERB.]] I can tell who the group of GERB and the United Patriarchs who voted on this proposal last year during the budgetary procedure. So the answer to the question Who is single! [[Applause and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u19	Are there any other statements? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u20	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not enter into the race between the managers and the BSP for Bulgaria and because we do not like the race Who is the more, the most. Because miners who claim to settle their problem don't deserve that kind of treatment. I want to go back a little bit in time and tell you that this discussion took place around New Year's Eve. Colleagues from GERB and from "United patriots" recognized Maya Manolova's proposal last month, June, that is, six months after the problem was identified. Next, BSP colleagues then joined and said they support this bill. Of course, the proposed project has its merits, but this is only one glamorous aspect of the problem. For the honour of the Pagon I want to look at the other side of the problem, because you all know that there is another side to this extremely important problem. If I had to go back a little bit in time, around the year 2000, the cases of mass cuts in mines and mining were increased, the cases of mine liquidation, which the legislator had imposed in § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code the possibility of early retirement. In fact, what we are looking at right now is located in the field of what we call early retirement. The figure of early retirement in Bulgarian legislation has existed since 2000. Then a preferential regime was given, an opportunity to ease the retirement of those who work underground, those who work in heaven, and those who work underwater, so-called categorical workers. What did it turn out to be? It turned out that this opportunity given to these sectors of the economy to be restructuring was not fully used by the relevant sectoral ministries. What do I mean? Early retirement in the agricultural sector, in the defence and security sector, in the mining, coal and all underground workers were given the opportunity to retire early in hopes that they would not be able to realise in the labour market, to receive the necessary income from replacement incomes, from their pensions. What happened next? These reforms in the agriculture, defence and security sectors, mining, unfortunately, have not yet been completed. Also, the reform of the mining and coal mining system has not ended. That is why these changes are required. If these sectors were reformed, we wouldn't be getting to the situation right now. The natural question that arises is: is it possible to solve problems in the labour market with the funds of state social security? In this deficit of the state social security budget, in those political decisions that lead to an increase in the deficit of state social security, is it possible for state social security to solve other problems beyond those that are present in the pension system? Of course, this is not possible and the progressively increasing deficit in the state social security budget is a clear testimony. I am the last person who will oppose the individual categories, whether third, second or first, because insured persons have their rights, have the right to social justice. But a third category over the years has become a universal donor, a kind of blood type zero, and the universal accepter is the budget deficit of the state social security, something like a blood group AB-zero. Why am I making these comparisons? Because they're extremely important. These political decisions have resulted in privatization of benefits to the sound of fanfare and nationalisation of the deficit. What do I mean? The positions were taken into account as a priority of the individual political forces they proposed and the deficit remained at the expense of this Chamber and of all the subsequent members of the National Assembly. I would also like to say a few words about what the 2015 reform has proposed. The transitional provision of 2000 entered the main body of the Law. It is no coincidence that the legislator in 2000 provided for it to be a transitional provision in the hope of restructuring the sectors of the economy - something that did not happen - and the pension system became a hostage to the unresolved problems in Bulgaria's economy. That is why we come to decisions that are difficult to reach consensus around. For this type of decision, as today is, consensus is easy to reach, but this type of political behavior then leads to increasing age, increasing internship when no agreement can be found. This is what I want to say to those who are importers, and to those who from the best of shame, as they say, support this project! I want to say one more thing. The 2015 reform has set the age to grow by two months to 55 years to those working underground. There is another group that are in the hypothesis of art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, which, upon termination, in reducing the volume of work of the mines concerned, have the right to take advantage of the possibility of retiring to 45 years of age at the time of the adoption of the Law. But what happened? The National Insurance Institute registers abuses, registers including corruption practices, based on information from their information system. Therefore, in 2018, the text was proposed, which said that at the time of the mine's reduction or liquidation and the termination of the employment relationship, those who have to retire under the ease regime must meet all three conditions of service, age and sum of age and internship, the so-called 90 points. Now the following case arises. What is currently proposed is that there is actually no link between the termination of the employment relationship, on the one hand, and the starting date of the pension, on the other. If you've been operating in the order of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Social Security Code, that is, if you've ever worked underground in time and had 10 years of insurance service, but now you're not in the mine, then you didn't meet the conditions for age and points for example, now you can go back and retire in a light order. This was the idea of importers in early 2018. Now the situation is completely different. At the moment, the proposal is that anyone who fulfils the condition of having 10 years internship, has 90 points and has 45 years and 6 months of age, can retire regardless of when the employment relationship is terminated. The National Insurance Institute in its official opinion states that in the register of the National Insurance Institute there are currently 2,400 underground miners, 1110 of them in 2018 are the age needed for retirement in order of ease, 15%, or 360 people, of them are already pensioners with an average pension of 633 BGN, that is, 360 people of these 2450 pensioners working underground are entitled to pension, receive pension, probably receive a salary. For this group there is another additional opportunity to increase the internship in them one year is recognized for three years, that is, you may be 40 years old and if you have 20 years of experience underground, you have 60 years of experience under our legislation. I want to say these things so there's clarity in the matter. Separately, the legislator has provided for the possibility of obtaining the so-called temporary occupational pension for early retirement because we have obliged the employer of this first category to contribute funds of 12% and 12% is the contribution to occupational pension funds. The idea of occupational pension funds is not that money from individual accounts to be transferred to the budget of state social security, but to enable early retirement under the so-called Second Pillar of Pension Insurance. Unfortunately, for various reasons these opportunities have not been used. We state that there are about 80 people in the mine that is concerned in Bobov dol, probably not in the NSI, nor anyone else can say how many other people meet these conditions and who are made redundant, given that they have 10 years of insurance service. So this number might swell up. But it's not a problem, it's not the biggest problem. Probably financial resources are also acceptable to the National Insurance Institute budget. But the big question that remains unresolved is that, with political decisions interfering with the social security legislation, we are burdening further majorities and subsequent governments with decisions that we are making today. This is the big problem, and it is not a problem that now 80 people will take advantage of the possibility of early retirement. I had to say these things so there would be clarity on what we're accepting right now. I see that there is an agreement on this.. there is nothing wrong with having consent, but let the MPs and everyone know that it is easy to enter the flag and the sound of the fanfare, the more difficult is to defend negative positions. Negative positions, unfortunately, burden budgets, burden deficits, burden all Bulgarian citizens. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the time. [[The President shall indicate an extension of time.]] We will come to a situation where, not only because of this, but also because of many other decisions that have been warned us about in 2013 and 2014 in the recommendations of the European Commission to the National Reform Programme. By 2016, in fact, every year, in each year's recommendation, we had an obligation to limit early retirement. Since 2016, since the adoption of the new legislation, this recommendation has been rejected. I hope, from now on, that the decisions we make in this National Assembly will be tailored, on the one hand, to the needs of Bulgarian citizens, on the other, to the principles of social security and not to confuse them with emotional arguments, because the most sustainable arguments are rational arguments. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, when we were preparing this proposal for this bill, and when I was signing it, I did not believe that it would meet obstructions and that someone would declare against it. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova and I thought that he would go without any obstructions at one reading, the second immediately afterwards in the room, which can happen, but will not make so much noise. Because we thought with a pure heart that we were doing something good for Bulgarian citizens and not so much for how many Bulgarian citizens are 80 people who will benefit from this amendment, which we are importing today, but I see that in the form of expert opinions, so profound speeches, high considerations for systematic thinking and approach on this topic there is a clear disagreement. I would like to express the lasting and permanent policy of the "Attack" since 2005. This concerns serious actions and policy for the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, constitutionally and legally attached. These rights of Bulgarian citizens were attacked and worked against them for many years to come to this pension reform, on which there appears to be consensus, but we continue to disagree with everything that represents an increase in age, albeit smoothly, two months a year, with this age that has reached for men, for women 60, 65 years. We do not agree with the arguments for the ageing population, with the entire pension model that is required and continues to be required. So some people here, let's face it, are very worried. This policy is clearly being torpedoed by one such amendment, which affects a very small number of citizens. That is why we both support it and wish this to happen in order to torpedo this policy, which affects the social rights of Bulgarian citizens. What else is this? This is part of the level of living, part of the social rights of Bulgarian citizens, constitutionally committed to their early or later retirement. Well, here's obviously the worry. I conclude with this.. we do not share these concerns that have been expressed here, and everything that is being done to fertilize this moving increase in the age of Bulgarian citizens who do not live under the conditions of other European citizens, as quality of life, as opportunities................................. You know what I'm talking about. We cannot follow models that are not in the interest of the Bulgarians. Therefore, we both support and vote for this amendment. Hopefully more and more such repairs will be introduced in order to fertilize this moving rise in the retirement age of the Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? What about other speeches? I won't. We'll move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending the Social Security Code, No 854-01-49, tabled by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, with the amendment proposed by the importers from 31 December 2017. Vote 166 MPs: 161, no objection, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The bill amending the Social Security Code, which we just voted at first reading, should also be subject to a second vote in today's sitting. No proposals have been made to amend and supplement the bill. We've only heard negative opinions. Mr. Chairman, I would like to announce the editorial amendment once again in § 1, Article 1. 69b, para. 4th sentence 2nd words "After 31 December 2017" shall be replaced by "from 31 December 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to examine the bill at second reading. They voted 167 MPs: for 167, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will read the final version for the second reading of the Law amending the Social Security Code. Report on the Draft Law amending the Social Security Code, No 854-01-49, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs: THE LAW OF THE amending the Social Security Code § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69b al. 4 is amended as follows: If the contract of employment of the persons working under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 shall be terminated on the basis of Article 3. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, they may retire not earlier than the age of 45 and 4 months as of 31 December 2017 and if they have a sum of internships and age 90 and 10 years of internship under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3. From 31 December 2017, age shall be increased from the first day of each calendar year by 2 months to the age of 50 for men and women. Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the name of the Import Act shall be supported by the Commission; § 1 under the Editorial Amendment proposed by the Commission; the name of the Vote 168 MPs: 162, none, abstention 6. The proposal is accepted, so we adopted the Bill. We move to the second point of the program for today: SELECTION OF THE MANAGGER OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS. The report of the Committee on Health follows. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Dr. Decho Dechev to be admitted to the Chamber of Chambers a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u29	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite Dr. Dechev to the gym. Please continue with the report, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u30	♪ I can't believe on a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 27 June 2018. (prom., D.V., No. 54 from 2018). At its extraordinary meeting held on 18 July 2018, the Health Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 27 June 2018. (prom., D.V., No. 54 from 2018). The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, trade unions and patient organizations. The Chairman of the Committee on Health Dr. Daniela Daritkova informed the MPs that for the period from 28 June 2018 until the expiry of the specified period on 2 July 2018 a proposal for a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB and the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly was submitted to the National Assembly. No 852-00-8/2 July 2018, for the candidacy of Dr. Decho Petrov Dechev. According to the requirements of Section I, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health, as well as the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly adopted by a decision of the National Assembly on 27 June 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is accompanied by all required documents. On the basis of Section IV, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is sent a written request to the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to check citizenship, as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act (330), and for the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 out of 330. As a result of the verification carried out, it is established that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of 330 concerning the existence of Bulgarian citizenship and the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. On the basis of art. 21, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act and of Section IV, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a written request has been sent to the Directorate of Human Resources and to the National Assembly for verification of the circumstances under art. 21, para. 1, t. 3 out of 330. After carrying out the inspection, the Commission on Health has been granted an electronic official criminal record certifying that the applicant for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) has not been convicted and has not been released from criminal liability under art. 78a of the Penal Code. On the basis of Section III, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure was sent a written request to the President of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army to carry out a preliminary examination of the candidate for governor of the NHIF for the identification of belonging to the authorities of State Security and to the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, including their predecessors and successors, for the period from 9 September 1944 to 16 July 1991. When carrying out the preliminary examination it was found that the applicant for governor of the NHIF was not established to belong to the bodies of art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Dr. Daritkova explained that the submitted proposal and all documents of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund were published within the established period of the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. On the basis of the verification carried out and on the basis of Section IV, p. 5 of the Rules of Procedure was unanimously decided to allow the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Decho Petrov Dechev until a hearing in the Committee on Health to be made, as the documents submitted by the proposal meet the requirements of Section I, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the applicant shall meet the requirements of art. 19th para. Art. 3 and Art. 21, para. 1, t. 1? 5 of the Health Insurance Act. The hearing of the proposed candidate was held in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure, with the aim of ensuring full publicity and transparency in the selection of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly's website the full shorthand minutes of the meeting shall be published. Dr. Decho Dechev's candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed by the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB and the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" was presented by one of the contributors Dr. Daniela Daritkova. She informed the MPs that Dr. Decho Petrov Dechev has over 37 years of professional experience in the health care system, including in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund and in the management of hospital care facilities. Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the applicant meets the requirements for taking up the position of Governor of NHIF as defined in art. 19th para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act for acquired higher education with an educational-qualification degree and for professional experience in the field of health management. Dr. Dechev has graduated from higher education with an education degree at the Medical Academy of Sofia and has an acquired medical specialty of Ear-nosed and Breast Diseases. In 2010 he also obtained a Master's degree in speciality "Health Care Management." His professional career began as Head of the UNG cabinet at the municipal hospital in the town of Ihtiman, then continued as a doctor at the Regional Hospital of Sofia, and at the Ministry of Interior Hospital. From 1995 to 1997 he served as Head of the Department of Medicine and in the Ministry of Health and in the period 2004 to 2008 he was consecutive Deputy Director of the National Health Insurance and member of the Management Board of the NHIF. From August 2008 until now, with a brief interruption, he was the Executive Director of the University Hospital St. Ivan Rilski "Sofia," which is one of the state hospitals without due obligations and with a positive financial result. Over the years Dr. Dechev has passed a number of trainings in the field of management of the hospital system and the formation of health policy. In conclusion, Dr. Daritkova pointed out that the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB and the parliamentary group "United patriots" believe that Dr. Decho Petrov Dechev has the necessary qualities to be a successful governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, who will work to raise public confidence in the Health Insurance Fund and for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. In his exhibition Dr. Dechev emphasized on the need for serious changes in the activities and policies of the National Health Insurance Fund in the field of medicinal products, medical devices, the treatment of Bulgarian citizens abroad and the control activities of the Fund. As main priorities in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dr. Dechev pointed out the implementation of a policy that would lead to a balance between the interest of the health insured persons, the medical and industry contractors, strict compliance with the effectiveness principle of providing and paying medicinal products, a change in order and organization when sending Bulgarian citizens to treatment abroad and optimizing and improving the control activities of the Fund. He added that a key factor in preserving the financial stability of the NHIF is ensuring solidarity in the revenue and equal treatment of financing medical activities in the expenditure area. In conclusion, Dr. Dechev stressed that if he received support for the proposed changes and was elected manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, he undertook within three months to prepare and present to the Committee on Health and the Supervisory Board of the NHIF a concept for the development of the NHIF's activities, including specific measures for changing drug policy, the treatment of Bulgarian citizens abroad and in the control activities of the Fund. In view of the exceptional public importance and the key role played by the NHIF manager in the health system, it was given the opportunity for word and patient organisations to express their views on the proposed candidate. Representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Union and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union expressed their support for Dr. Decho Dechev's candidacy, pointing out that he is a proven professional and expert in the healthcare system. During the discussion, the MPs raised specific questions regarding the priorities presented by the candidate for changes in the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund, to which Dr. Dechev answered comprehensively, pointing out that the specific package of measures and proposals for legislative initiatives will be detailed in the development concept of the National Health Insurance Fund. During the discussion the members of the Committee on Health agreed that Dr. Decho Dechev has the necessary professional training, personal motivation, management and administrative experience, public reputation and public support. Members of the National Assembly believe that the presence of all these factors will be a guarantee of balancing the interests and relations between all stakeholders in the health insurance system, ensuring the financial stability of the Fund and the successful implementation of important policies to improve the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund as a key component in the health care system. On the basis of the hearing and the vote carried out on the following results: the Committee on Health and Health shall propose to the National Assembly to discuss and vote in accordance with Section VI of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and procedure for proposing candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 27 June 2018. (prom., D.V., No. 54 of 2018) the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and implements a relevant draft decision on the selection of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund as follows: Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 and 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He elected Decho Petrov Dechev as Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund with a mandate until 12 March 2020 The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly, sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u31	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. There's a presentation coming up, but you actually basically presented the candidate. Would you like something extra? This was the Commission's report, which, in essence, also presented the candidate for the President of the Cashier. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear Dr. Dechev! I will, of course, make a statement with the assurance that there will be no word in it that is directed against the candidate for governor of the NHIF, that is, there will be nothing personal about it. But I am provoked by what I see in the media, by the results, by the presentation in the Commission that the candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund has the serious intention to conduct policies, to make changes, including a change in drug policy, a change in approaches in the treatment policies of Bulgarian citizens abroad and a change of method in practice, and some other intentions, which, with the current status of the NHIF manager, will be virtually impossible or will be largely hampered. I'm going to ask Dr. Dechev a few questions, so I'm asking him to listen carefully, and that's why I'm speaking first so he has time to prepare for an answer. The answers, of course, will largely determine my attitude to the candidacy. Here we heard from Dr Daritkova that within three months the concept of the new governor of NHIF will be presented. This is what we heard at the beginning of this year from the Minister of this Tribune that they will present by March, I quote it to Parliament: a Slender program, so, so, for the development of health care. I don't know if it happened until March, maybe I wasn't there at that time? I would like to ask the following questions in order to be the Bulgarian public and everyone is aware of what is happening in the NHIF. My questions are specific and accurate, which I want Dr. Dechev to answer. I didn't hear anyone ask those questions to the Commission. The first question to you, Dr. Dechev is as follows: do you know the exact amount of the liabilities of the National Health Insurance Fund, including, I stress, including, overdue debts to foreign social systems, medical service providers, drug providers, as well as the schedule for the payment of these obligations by year? And to this question: how many have been paid out of these obligations this year? You should if you applied for...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u33	He's not the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u34	Please, Mr. Chairman, make a note of Dr. Daritkova not to interrupt me so I don't engage in dialogue with her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u35	Go on, Mr. Velkov, she's not interrupting you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u36	Yeah. [[speaking indistinctly]] There he goes. He keeps talking. In any case, dialogue with her will be to her detriment. On schedule, do you know what is paid and how will it be paid? Since there are protocols signed by the current Minister of Health, then as chairman of the Supervisory Board, where exactly and clearly it is written when what is being paid and that it will be paid to a country, if there are such obligations, you should know them. Otherwise, how would you agree to run for governor of a structure that has huge obligations? Because the Minister and Dr. Daritkova claimed that there were no such obligations. If you know, we'd like you to say them here in the hall. The second question, here Dr. Daritkova can no longer blame me that Dr. Dechev has no relation to the new molecules, as you are currently managing a hospital that has wards enjoying new molecules. In this regard, I will also refer to the onco-hematological department. You also know which molecules we're talking about, including the new hepatitis C drug from the American firm that I'm not going to say so we don't advertise. And to tell you the truth, Dr. Dechev, you must know that the release of the new medicines has already begun and their application to patients under the contracts with companies has started in May. That is, at the latest by the end of this month, August is next, the next, you will receive in the NHIF already as manager invoices for payment. I'm asking: where will you get the money for these payments? Given that the NHIF budget does not have the column for new molecules, there is no such paragraph. If it's part of the joint, it means that you're going to harm other sick people, and now it's in the media, including sneaking, and I'm not saying that it's reliable, unconfirmed information that the NHIF is at minus 100 million for drugs at the moment. Hardly anyone here in this room, including the minister, knows how much money there is for the new molecules that are not limited. You are probably aware that there are two paragraphs.. paragraph A and paragraph B. In paragraph A there is no limit, there are a number of diseases, including children's, premature, oncohematological and others, and the other paragraph B is regulated. That's my second question: where are you gonna get that money? The third question concerning the reserve of the National Health Insurance Fund. This reserve for 2018 is or should be 3%. My question is: do you know, is this reserve available? And if available, how is it distributed according to separate paragraphs? Hospital care, hospital, medical devices and so on? If from this reserve you are going to pay for the new molecules, what part of it will remain available for its primary purpose, let's say, on the already mentioned paragraph of unmitigated funds? You run a large hospital, you must know that the reserve is intended for unforeseen events, including the conditions of natural disasters and epidemics. Dr. Dechev, I'll give you just one example. If, for example, an epidemic of a particularly dangerous disease occurs, this is acceptable, let's say, a mosquito transmitted, as is West Nile encephalitis. For example, I will point out that there are already epidemic outbreaks of this disease in neighbouring Romania and Ukraine. In Romania, there are over 1,000 cases and, as is known, there are no engineering-prevention facilities on borders for mosquitoes. Or let's say BIRS, the Middle East respiratory syndrome. Please, Mr. Genov, don't make any sign of me in this room. I know how much time I have, and I know what I'm asking. In my opinion, this is particularly important for the Bulgarian public at the moment. Such cases of BIRS are already in Greece, it is carried through tourists. The question was relevant to the reserve. At the moment, you are in charge, as I said, of this hospital, and I do not know how you will implement your concept, if you have not cut the umbilical cord of the Casa with the Health Ministry, as you intend to attract the medical audit with you, to radically change things. Finally, I would like to ask you: do you know that there should be deputies in this House with whom they are directly or indirectly involved, participating in companies with which the Casa works actively? If any, how will they participate in the vote for your choice without falling into conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. I would like to point out that your questions were for an acting manager, and Mr. Dechev has not yet been selected. So he can decide which of the questions to answer. And the last question just didn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u38	We asked Plotchev and he answered...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u39	Dr. Ademov, you made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Dr. Dechev! I begin by saying that our parliamentary group will once again support the candidacy for a new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. In this case we will strongly support Dr. Dechev's candidacy because his profile is related to serious expertise, with serious knowledge of health insurance, with serious knowledge of the management of medical institutions, with serious knowledge of the problems of the industry. However, I am in a hurry to point out that this trust is an advance because we are not yet convinced that the concept that Dr. Dechev set out during the hearing in the Committee on Health can be realised by the now ruling majority. Why am I saying this? Because there are quite serious ideas for changes in the system that require change in legislation. Some of them are in the group of so-called unpopular measures, and the ruling majority has shown that it is difficult to support unpopular measures because they are the ones that lead to political negatives. I therefore declare that our trust is in advance, and call on the new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, together with the Supervisory Board and with the management of the Ministry, to seek a non-party consensus because this is extremely important. All who tried based on individual party stocks to change the system failed with a bang. I therefore call for a search for and find decent levels of agreement by reaching a non-party consensus. I would like to say a few things that are interesting in terms of the powers of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dear Dr. Dechev, probably at the door of the office of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund you will find a virtual sign with the inscription: Why am I saying this? Because the legislation that is currently in force has long since transferred the rights to enable the management skills to be deployed by the manager of the fund to the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. On the other hand, in 2012, Mr. Djankov made sure that most of the employees in the Central Management of the National Health Insurance Fund were concreteized as civil servants, of course, there are also those who are in employment. You, as an appointing authority under the Law on the Civil Service and an employer under the Labour Code, will have no opportunity to select a team with which to implement your ideas. And another thing: it is a strange fact that during the last two days of this week, unknown why the Cassata leadership has rushed to carry out the so-called testimonial, although the deadline for the interim attestation is until the end of July. It is even more bizarre that most of the employees in the National Fund and those in regional directorates have received maximum assessments. That's why I say you're tied up because you can't do anything about choosing human resources to help you realize your ideas. Something unprecedented in the history of the National Health Insurance Fund is sure that regional directors have achieved good results, as is the condition to receive additional material stimulus. They probably deserve such an extra reward in the amount of gross salary, but the weird thing about this whole situation is that they didn't wait at least two days, three days, so that the new manager could have some kind of attitude about how the footage is evaluated. I do not say that what is done is not legal, but I say that it would be fair and the new governor who will work with this team, who will work with those ten people who rule the casata, according to the letter of the former governor Professor Plotchev, should be properly evaluated. I say all these things because I do not want Dr. Dechev to be another governor who will be the victim of the legislation, the victim of corrupt decisions, which are not in the interest of the insured persons in Bulgaria. Dear Dr. Dechev, I would like to congratulate you with the election of the National Assembly because you will be elected, that is clear, but I would like to warn you: if you do not start managing the National Health Insurance Fund within a month, be sure that next month it will start running you. In such a situation, the results are never good. With the best feelings and with the best intentions, I wish, within the framework of the consensus that you have always sought as a manager and manager, to find that balance between the performers of medical care, between the administration of the National Health Insurance Fund, between the Supervisory Board and the Ministry of Health, and together with the National Assembly's Health Committee, to make sure that we change the health care system in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u41	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Docent Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Dr. Dechev! Dr. Dechev, I want to tell you that today we will not support your candidacy. We will not support your candidacy, not because we doubt your personal qualities. You are one of the few significant Bulgarian health managers. The reason is that the post of governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is debarred. You will not have enough administrative capacity to influence the processes in the National Health Fund. Before we chose the manager of the Health Insurance Fund, we had an offer to change the status of the management bodies in the Cashier and then to choose the manager. This proposal, unfortunately, was not accepted. We will do what is necessary for our proposals to be declared on the relevant legislative path. Dear Dr. Dechev, there are two questions that I would like to draw your attention to today before you enter your office. The first you know very well that there is a wave of respectable claims of hospitals to pay off what is called a subliminal activity. Mr. Ananiev, our Health Minister said that there is no money to pay these claims and they will not be paid. Dr. Dechev, this year more than 10 million were returned to the country's budget. lv. a surplus of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, saying that there was not enough time to absorb it. It's a nonsense situation. They can't do $10 million. lv. to be returned when apparently the health care system needs every penny it can use. The second thing about my request is when you enter your office tomorrow, the first question to deal with is the question of the denied contract of the Carlos hospital for maternity care. Dr. Dechev, there a hundred thousand people from Karlovo and the surrounding seven municipalities are deprived of labor and the mothers have to travel between 60 and 100 km to Plovdiv to give birth there. Please deal with this problem and make a fair decision. Finally, in a personal capacity, I would like to wish you well and to break this bad tradition now that the second manager of the Health Insurance Fund is leaving his post for health reasons. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u43	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As time progresses, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the legislative part of today's Friday parliamentary session until the debate is over, including a vote on the fixed third point for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I don't see any other opinions. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 86 MPs: 65, against 2, abstention 19. The offer is accepted. [[(Noise and lines:) Revoting!]] Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u46	Mr. President, I would like a re-vote procedure, as many Members have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u47	I understand. Voting mode, please. They voted 118 MPs: 95, against 3, abstention 20. The proposal for an extension of the legislative part shall be adopted. We continue with speeches. Mr. Popovski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Dechev, the group of the United patriots will support the proposal for a new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The situation in the National Fund in terms of funding is very serious, and, among other things, by the end of September, the Ministry must present for consideration in the Chamber and the new health insurance model that should contribute to more rational financing of all feathers. We know that last year's budget vote highlighted serious shortcomings in funding on individual feathers, which I hope this year will be much more rational. We have a severe, if I may say so, refinancing of pharmaceuticals at the expense of hospital activities and at the expense of primary outpatient medical care and specialized outpatient medical care. You must be initiated before the supervision of the Cashier, where, as I look at the composition, there are only two doctors from nine people. You are a clinical specialist with sufficient experience and you should be the initiative for a lot of things. The financiers won't mind when the clinicians in the supervision of the cassa and you, as a new manager of the health insurance fund, with your initiatives you have to contribute to this thing. I assume that Minister Ananiev with the new model by the end of September, the Ministry will be ready and we will enter to discuss the new budget in another situation, much more equal in terms of funding. I wish you good luck once more. You will have our overall parliamentary support for all the sensible initiatives that we have heard on the two days of a hearing before the Commission and yesterday at a hearing before the group of the United Patriarchs. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Dr. Dechev! At the beginning, I will make one clarification: the parliamentary group will specify its right not to vote, not to support you, as our credit of trust in this team in healthcare is already exhausted in a year and a half. I realize very well, I will not join the fearsome predictions to wish you well, because the previous two leaders have gone by sickness, I hope this does not happen to you, I will not wish you success, as your success is extremely difficult in the situation you are in and in, this has already been mentioned here by colleagues before me. Indeed, you do not have a real ability to manage either the composition of the Cashier or the supervision policy of the Cashier, and this issue will be legislatively initiated in the coming months wisely, with a demand for consensus. I would like, without asking you any questions, because I have known you for 38 years and we are on the same course, to ask you as a colleague to present and explain some of your applications carefully read by me when presenting your vision to the Health Commission, which I regret, but I could not attend for objective reasons. There are a few things that you know very well as a member of the supervision of the cassa and as an operative officer of the cassa that have been rising as mantra for the past few years. One of these things is the continuous indication of medicines for oncological and onco-hematological treatment as the cause of the health insurance deficit. I would like to share with you that if you compare the absolute amount of funds that are being spent in this direction with all the other countries in the European Union, according to the human contingent and the disease, these figures are not in favor of the Republic of Bulgaria. The second thing is the statement that a standard for treatment will be introduced, which is established in the world, and whoever wants innovative treatment will have to pay it personally, in my opinion it is a serious deception and should not enter into it, as it will enter into a very big conflict with Bulgarian patients. You are not obliged to know this technology of treatment, but it is strictly echelonized worldwide and in no way with a standard treatment approach, it today In order not to be very wordy, the main question... I'm sorry, I mostly refer to you, Dr. Dechev, I'll wait for you to finish your conversation. [[Doctor Dechev spoke with MP Devdet Chakarov.]] I'm so sorry. Since you have stated several basic ideas for changing the management of the Cashier, allow us to share with you our opinion on some of them. The first idea of attracting the Commission for treatment abroad and the Fund for treatment abroad, their unification, we welcome and we have had such an idea for a long time. I myself have been a long time a Commissioner for treatment abroad, but her going to the Cashier for us is inappropriate for many reasons that I do not need to point out to the honourable Chamber. This is a fragment of our political vision of the management of this structure, which is extremely important, which needs to be discussed with the management of both the Ministry and the supervision of the Casa. Secondly, we have been waiting eight months for the honourable Mr. Ananiev, we have now received a promise for September, but this, in my humble opinion, is too late to plan the measures for the new budget year, to get a vision for financing and management of health care. Ninety percent of the health care funds are operated by the National Health Insurance Fund. That is, you, as future governor, are expected to be a very fast entry into the team, which is currently preparing this vision by the government, because we have our vision and will soon present it so that we can really see it and it will be consensually discussed by all countries, as the current funding of healthcare through the model of clinical pathways for me, for our entire parliamentary group, and I dare say about the huge part of the medical college of Bulgaria is deeply vicious. In this I wish you success, but I would like to hear your opinion on this in the next few minutes, if possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u51	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines? Next statement, Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! My question is too modest, but he hasn't found a solution in years. Dear Mr. Dechev, the National Health Insurance Fund is situated in several buildings: on the street of Krichim is housed the management of the Casa and its accounting; on the street of Biglas is located the representation of the outpatient and hospital medical care; on the street of Krichim is situated the budget, finance and medicinal products; and on the medical audit, for which you intend to initiate participation in the structure of the National Health Insurance Fund, is housed even further in the yard of the Military Hospital. My question is: will you take and when, if you are elected manager, the collection of all these structures of the National Health Insurance Fund in one building to create the necessary normal conditions for its work? ▪ Something that we, as MPs, insist on doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u53	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. The people's representative Mr. Chakarov expressed his wish for a next speech. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u54	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As has already been pointed out, we will not only support Dr. Decho Dechev's candidacy as Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, but we also welcome her in view that Dr. Dechev is undoubtedly competent and proven specialist, professional and administrator of all the positions he has held so far, has been doing extremely competent, professional and successful. In addition, we have listened to his vision, his concept of the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund, which he presented to the Health Insurance Commission and we can definitely believe that this would be a very good start not only in order to carry out its functions as Director, but in general for the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dr. Dechev, here I would like to address you directly and to the honourable Members, to our entire public the disproportion regarding the competences that the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Supervisory Board has. And not only that. I am convinced that you, with the skills you have, with the knowledge, with the experience you would have successfully managed in this respect, but there is another one I have also said to the Committee on Health, I will repeat in plenary that the National Health Insurance Fund is one of the important components in the system of the functioning of health care, but it is not the only one, however important, with serious opportunities and competences. It is very important in this regard the work of the Ministry of Health, which forms the policies, monitors their implementation, controls their implementation. Naturally, through the National Health Insurance Fund, you also have such competences. Furthermore, the legislative body, I refer to the National Assembly, the Committee on Health, also the word organisations, patient organisations and all those who need to have an active position and role, should be considered, so that in a dialogueal, consensusal environment, the necessary steps and actions should finally be taken so as to launch a serious and hopefully successful reform. In this regard, I would like to say that today may have been the place once again, in view of the possibilities that the discussion and debate have, to present the position of the ruling and the ruling majority, because they have assumed the responsibility to present this, so that, in view of the state of health, despite the enormous efforts being made, neither the patients who are being treated are satisfied, neither the doctors nor all the medical staff in the field of dental treatment in the various areas are satisfied. It seems to be more than necessary for such a reform. We welcome your view on the introduction of the electronicisation of the information system of the National Health Insurance Fund, we have such assurances from the Ministry. We hope that this will happen because there must finally be an information system that we DPS insist on very much. In addition, a competitive environment must be created for insurance mechanisms and thus improve efficiency. Why do I say: efficiency? Given that the prime minister himself, when the renovated Clinic of Anesthesiology, Reanimation and Intensive Treatment was opened at the hospital..St. George. in Plovdiv, said that the funds in healthcare are not being spent effectively. The Minister of Finance himself then pointed out the same thing. The Minister of Health is an outstanding financier. He also sees that efficiency is not what we would all like it to be. There is a huge challenge in this regard for all of us to improve the functioning of the healthcare system so that the Bulgarian people, our entire nation, receive a good health service. In this regard, of course, we do not run away from our responsibilities. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have always been constructive and we would continue to be determined, I assure you, constructive opposition. All the good proposals that would be made, we would support them, but we're not gonna stop at that and so far we're gonna wait for someone else to propose. We ourselves would also offer constructive solutions and proposals in the name of improving the functioning. I share what Professor Mihailov said because this is our vision as well. At all, we need to think very seriously and responsible for the model of functioning of health care, because it is evident that this is not the modus on which we can achieve the necessary reforms with a view to improving the activity and functioning of the health system. Finally, I would say that the ruling majority must take responsibility and present a convincing position on the management, reforms of the health system. In this regard, I join what Dr. Ademov said that we should have a non-party consensus on health reform. This is due to all of us politicians to the entire Bulgarian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines? I can't see. A statement was also announced by the MP from the parliamentary group of Volya. Ms. Krastina Taskova. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Dechev, our parliamentary group will support your candidacy because, first of all, nowadays, as you have noted in your speech, healthcare has been brought to such an extent that being the Minister of Health and being the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund must definitely have courage, character and courage, but this is not the main one. What impressed us most in your speech? You bet on three words that are very rarely heard in the Bulgarian state institutions and in the National Assembly at all. It was efficiency, efficiency and control. We wish you success, and I hope you really have the support of the government to succeed in making an effective and efficient health care in Bulgaria. You also said that within three months you would have legislative proposals on how to do all this work. We advise you to include in your proposals and thus expected eHealth. We are not entrusting you to carry out this reform, but I am taking the opportunity that the Minister is present, because neither a budget can be planned properly, nor the controls can be carried out properly if we do not have e-health, and you also stressed that you want to include every health-insured person in their activities and to be part of the control of spending money. For us, this can only happen through electronic health care. Good luck from our group! I hope, since this time the governor will not be unanimously supported by the National Assembly, to make his entire term. We learned from BSP colleagues that they will not support you because until now, the more supported a manager is, the faster it goes. [[Applause from GERB and from Volja.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Are there any lines? I can't see. No Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak have been recorded. Anyone? I don't see a sign from the hall. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, according to c. 5 of the Rules for the selection of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund after the closure of the debates, the applicant has the opportunity to make a statement and answer the questions asked within 10 minutes. Dr. Dechev, I invite you to take this opportunity. Welcome to the stands. You have the floor, Dr. Dechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! As a person who insists on answering what they have asked him, detailedly, correctly and precisely, I would like to tell you that if I have to answer in this spirit what you asked me, I may have to take you no less than two hours. So I'm going to answer very specifically. Mr. Velkov, the answers to the questions you asked me are almost entirely contained in the concept criteria I set two days ago. I rule out the last question that you asked me about a distress situation that would eventually spread because it is not in the circle of policies that the National Fund is conducting, but you should contact the Ministry of Health. So I will allow myself to answer just two of the questions, because they seemed very important to me. The first of these to Professor Mihaylov, I allow myself to respond to the thesis which he stated that the payment of individual medicines is envisaged, excluding innovative medicines. I am very sorry to say this, but if there is any context in this thesis, it is deeply wrong, because such a thing has never been said, I claim to stress. When hinting even about such a thesis, it can cause certain negative reactions in very many patients. I repeat, such a thing has never been offered, and if you have access to what I have proposed, you will see that in a completely different way you interpret it. I thank Mrs. Kostova, who very briefly and clearly told you the principles on which the new drug policy will be built in Bulgaria. Efficacy and effectiveness? There is nowhere to talk about excluding certain medications, whether they are innovative or not. This efficiency and effectiveness.. a principle that is not being applied now, I know that works for the benefit of many people. Works for the benefit of many lobbies, by the way, and some professionals in certain areas. If we want to put in a position of equality all users of the system, all users of the system in one insurance fund receive equal funding. I stress funding, not specific medicines. Within the framework of this funding, which covers treatment established on the basis of international criteria, each one is entitled to choose whether he will receive the treatment covered by international criteria and rules, or will use this amount to which he can pay for the therapy he prefers. That's the answer. It's never been said that they're going to take out some preparations, introduce others, create a policy of some, say, attitude towards one or another firm. You've got it all wrong. I thank Dr. Ademov for putting here a question for which I am not prepared to answer him, but I am not surprised that in recent days some attempts have been made to concreteize some positions in the National Fund. I'd like to say to Dr. Ademov that I'm not surprised. I have always expected that there are a circle of people who live in this situation very well that they will take action. These are perhaps the first measures, wanting to concrete some of the people who help them to continue this system. Finally, in order not to bore you, I would like to say that I will keep the three-month period in which I will offer you detailed measures in the directions in which the budget is currently failing, to say. It is drug policy, drug policy in the part of expensive drugs, including oncology, Professor Mihailov, in the part of control mainly, in the part of medical devices where within three months, I repeat, you will have detailed suggestions. If these proposals are supported by you, if they are accepted by Oversight, I am going to conduct them and 2019 to be the first in financial terms in which the National Fund will end without deficit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u59	Thank you, Dr. Dechev. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to vote on a decision to elect the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. The candidate who receives more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. I remind you: Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 and 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He elected Decho Petrov Dechev as Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund with a mandate until 12 March 2020 Please vote. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]] The decision's been made. Thank you to the MPs, thank you to Dr. Dechev. The Minister may request the floor at any time. Minister Ananiev wants to take an attitude or he'll tell us exactly what. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr. Dechev! Let me start by congratulating Dr. Dechev's choice and wish him good luck in his hard work! He can count on my full support and the support of my team at the Ministry of Health. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I've known Dr. Dechev a long time. We also worked at the Health Insurance Fund, we worked together, and when he was the manager of one of the best state hospitals in the world, St. Ivan Rilski. It has been said before me that this is a well-managed hospital with very good financial results and especially with a very good positive attitude of Bulgarian citizens and of Bulgarian patients who have been treated in this hospital. I also know his professional and management qualities. This gives me reason that it will meet the huge expectations of the Bulgarian population to deal with an extremely complex system at such a difficult time. Dr. Dechev knows both the good and the bad things in our system. This gives him the chance to find the right way and the right solutions to improve the system in terms of both efficiency and efficiency and control in the National Health Insurance Fund. He knows the problems and these problems he will solve them, I am convinced within his competence. The system is in a difficult position. The system needs a change. What you've given me, I'll do it and present the new health insurance model. I'm ready with him now, but I need a certain amount of time to coordinate it with the partners in the government. I have prepared a sociological study in which I want to see the attitude of Bulgarian citizens with questions that will guide us where the model should go. In addition, as many MPs have wished, and I have stated it at the very beginning, this model will be agreed and discussed with all of you, the parliamentary parties represented, even outside the parliamentary parties. My duty will be fulfilled. I hope that, together with Dr. Dechev, everyone in their competences, we will realize this new model, in the name of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian patients. Good luck, Dr. Dechev! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u61	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next item of the program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC SOCIETY IN THE REST OF SPORTS. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, before we begin the reports on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Krasimir Tsipov and Vanya Koleva be allowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u63	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 121 MPs: 116, against 2, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tzipov and Mrs. Koleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u64	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. At its meeting held on 18 July 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Order Protection Act, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, Deputy Director of the Sofia Directorate of the Interior, and by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Asen Markov, Secretary General, and Ralitsa Mutafchieva Secretary. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Slavcho Atanasov. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events are related to the need to take adequate and effective measures to prevent anti-social events. The bill proposes several major amendments to the current legislation which aim to refine the functions of the organizers of sports events, the security officer of the sports site and the head of security and safety of the sports event. A regime of access of visitors to the sports event is in place. Access is intended to be made through the provision of a document/sign personalizing visitors or after reading the visitor's ID card from a personal document scanner. The conditions and arrangements for access to a sports event and documents/signs are proposed to be governed by a decree of the Council of Ministers to enter into force one year after the promulgation of this law. The powers of the head of security and safety of the sporting event relating to the non-compliance of persons with forced administrative measures and of minors without escort in the sports hall and the sports site shall be extended. The requirement is introduced that the consent of a qualified companion to minors be certified by a declaration. The definition of sports hooliganism is precisely regulated, thus specifying the concept and extending the scope of the Law in relation to the unlawful conduct and the places in which it arose. An essential guarantee for the protection of public order in the conduct of sporting events is the system of penalties supplemented by forced administrative measures to be imposed by the Ministry of Interior's regional management at the scene of the act for certain anti-social events. It is intended for some of the activities of sports hooliganism on the basis of an act drawn up and annexed evidence, the Head of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of Interior at the place of execution of the act to issue a criminal order and imposes a fine and compulsory administrative measure. A change is also envisaged in the procedure for imposing a forced administrative measure under art. 41, p. 2 of the Law on Sports and Sports The use of the sporting site for sporting events is required by the Minister of Youth and Sports to be agreed in advance with the Minister of Interior. Additional requirements on the deployment and use of video cameras shall be introduced for the purpose of documenting evidence collections. Owners or users of sporting facilities and facilities, as well as organizers of sporting events, will have to carry out expenditure related to technical equipment necessary to ensure the safety and security of visitors to sporting events. The adoption of the Public Order Law in the conduct of sporting events does not create an administrative burden and does not lead to the need for structural changes. The Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Interior support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. In the debates took part the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Plamen Nunev, who united in the opinion that the bill is important, but it is necessary to make some editorial and technical amendments, which will contribute to clarity and effectiveness in their implementation. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. There is a report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports At its regular meeting held on 11 July 2018, the Commission examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, Deputy Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Slavcho Atanasov, who pointed out that the main purpose of this bill is to take adequate measures to prevent anti-social events in the event of sporting events. The proposed amendments and additions shall specify the functions of the organizers of sports events, the body responsible for the security of the sporting site and the head of responsibility and security of the sporting event. The bill introduces a regime of access to sports sites in ensuring the personalization and removal of visitors' anonymity. New criteria and conditions shall be introduced for admission of minors up to 16 years of age to sporting events and the accompanying person shall declare his liability by means of a model declaration proposed by the State Agency for Children. A new version of the concept of sports hooliganism is proposed, the penalties imposed are raised, providing for differentiation of penalties depending on the severity of the anti-social event. The bill also contains changes related to the possibility of certain events of sports hooliganism, the head of the regional management of the Ministry of Interior, to impose a fine and forced administrative measure, a ban on visiting sports events in the country and abroad. In coordination with the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Youth and Sports may impose a forced administrative measure to suspend the use of the sporting site for sporting events. The penalties for infringements of the organizers of sports events and owners or users of sports sites shall be increased. Additional requirements on the deployment and use of video cameras in the sports site shall be introduced for the purpose of documenting events and evidence. The Commission received opinions on the Law of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and six of the Football Clubs of the First Professional Football League. The opinions generally support the need for these changes, with some proposals being made. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Elhan Kulkov, Slavcho Atanasov and Stefan Apostolov. The Members of the National Assembly agreed, in principle, on the need for a new legislative framework to take adequate measures to prevent anti-social events during sporting events. Mr. Stefan Apostolov stressed that the proposed changes, which have been the subject of debates for a long time, are necessary and will become a factor limiting anti-social events during sports events. The MPs Vesela Lecheva and Elhan Kulkov expressed reservations about the bill and noted the need to refine the proposed texts. On the part of the representatives of the Ministry of Interior, support was expressed for the proposed changes and was stressed that they are necessary to achieve the overall objective of the overall safety and security of the visitors to sports events. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 11-vote vote held, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, No 854-01-67, submitted on 6 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Stoev Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. At its meeting held on 11 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Stoev Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Anton Zlatanov, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General, and Ms. Ralitsa Mutafchieva Secretary. The bill was presented by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov, who pointed out that his aim was to take measures to prevent anti-social events in the conduct of sports events, to refine the functions of the owner of the sports object, to the responsibilities of the organizer of the sports event, to ensure the personalization of the visitors and to create a preventive mechanism and to quickly reveal the perpetrators of the anti-social events. The bill introduces additional requirements regarding the deployment and use of video cameras, changes the conditions and arrangements for visitors' access to the sporting event, including the exclusion of persons with forced administrative measures, as well as of minors without an escort. Mr. Atanasov noted that a differentiation of penalties is proposed depending on the severity of the anti-social events, and the punishment is introduced for the benefit of society. It is envisaged that the special provision of the Criminal Code should be applied in case of a repeated violation of the forced administrative measure. The penalties for infringements of the organizers of sports events and owners or users of sports sites shall be increased. In the discussion took part the MPs Hristian Mitev and Danail Kirilov, who said they would support the bill. Mr. Mitev noted that the measures were timely and the result of the work of the MPs from different parliamentary groups. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the event, without the opposition, and 6 votes for the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, No 854-01-67, submitted by Slavcho Stoev Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers, the bill will be presented by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not make a long speech because the report of the leading Commission presented the main things that we propose in the emergency measures in the Law on Football hooliganism, as well as the hooliganism of other sporting events. And since most of you personally know, with very few exceptions, in this Parliament, I argue that each of you is an intelligent person and there is no point in explaining why this law should enter into our legislation, and in the fastest way. I will just say that we owe it to the hundreds, I repeat, to the hundreds maimed in the Bulgarian football stadiums, we owe it to the boy from Dupnitsa, who was strangled by his own father at the Stadium of Bonchuk in Dupnitsa, we owe it to the policewoman Boryana, who was disfigured a few months ago. Colleagues, I am very glad that all parties have united on this issue. I must tell you that from the first to the last moment for six months on this bill, the five parties in parliament worked. Here I would like to thank Mr. Lazarov personally from GERB, Mr. Chenchev from BSP, Mr. Tsvetanov from GERB, Mrs. Boryana Georgieva from Voljas and Mr. Sevim Ali from DPS. I would also like to thank the experts from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as the experts from the sport, the Bulgarian Football Union and the Prosecutor General's Office, Minister Radev and Minister Kralev, because this working group has been working for nearly six months on this bill. After all, my fellow Members, my request is that we vote today on the Bill, because the football championship starts tomorrow. So, colleagues, the task force has decided... [[Noise.]] Listen carefully, fellow Members, the task force has made the following decision: to introduce immediately the emergency measures, because the football championship begins first. We are currently working on the new Law on Football hooliganism, which for purely technical reasons will be ready at the end of the year. It is no coincidence that the representative of the European Council and the football expert David Bowen, who created in Europe the famous Convention on Sports and Football hooliganism, is a huge document which, colleagues, is just a guide on how to make a modern law on football hooliganism. Four years ago, the Russians had a huge problem, intersected this Western experience and saw that they may have made one of the world's best football championships without a single incident, without a single fight, without a single maimed or killed in the stadiums. It is our turn in the fastest way at the moment to vote on emergency measures, and the big law is the new law, but as in the working group we call it the big law on football hooliganism, it will be ready on our forecasts somewhere at the end of December, the beginning of January, because there are purely technological problems. It should be publicly discussed for nearly two months and will be ready in December by our estimates. Colleagues, please, let us support this so much, but so important law for our society, all the more so that our entire society wants to have such a law and tighten security measures in our stadiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately, football, sports hooliganism at all is a negative social phenomenon that is gaining greater popularity and speed not only in Bulgaria, at all in all countries of the world. The proposed Public Order Bill, however, attempts are made to regulate some of these relations, and I recognise that this is a positive step. It is undoubtedly clear that the political forces have united around the Bill "every one of them has made his proposals, as Mr. Atanasov rightly pointed out, but I think there are a few more things that need to be detailed and refined. I will not go into a detailed analysis of things now, I just want to say that regarding the proposed bill there are no measures regarding the prevention of minors, who, according to the Association of Prosecutors, are the main perpetrators of such activities in sporting events. I think that particular attention should be paid to the prevention and achievement of its objectives, namely the general, individual prevention, to act educationally and deterringly with regard to other members of society. There is also a slight inaccuracies with regard to art. 13, § 8 as regards the declaration to be carried by minors and their attendants. We believe that it has a purely blanquet and formal form. There is no one to verify that the parent, guardian or parental guardian has actually signed this declaration and that the person has an appropriate companion with the knowledge of that person. That is why we reserve the right to make proposals between first and second readings of the Bill, and at first reading we will abstain from support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, you say: There was a representative from every single parliamentary group and everyone could make proposals that wanted to be tabled. This is not the time to think. There were months we had to work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Another line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, I think we all think the same way. Yes, there are slight shades, but let's not burn the quilt because of the flea. The truth is, as said by the colleague from Volja....that this bill has really worked for six months with experts, I repeat, four ministries. Yes, indeed, there are some things that are not specified, but it is no accident that I stressed that we are continuing to cook the great law where all these things will enter. I strongly suggest that we do all the parliamentary groups again. I will tell you, Mr. Chenchev, for example, made very good proposals in the working group, as he is a specialist in these areas. Even when after the vacation we continue to work on the big law, let it be so that all parties can work it again. Understand, we should not divide here to either left or right; neither nationalists nor DPS colleagues and so on. I call on you to find a common language and ultimately bring to society a law that has been waiting for years. Years! And now there has been a law since 2004, but it has extremely great weaknesses according to all experts. Colleagues, let's finally untie the hands of the Ministry of Interior. I can talk for hours about how right now our police are catching the villain and at some point there's nothing they can do to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Third line? Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Baichev! I understand the situation in which colleagues from BSP are currently falling into. Two months working group is working on the amendments. They are not quite so much in volume there are one, two, three significant changes. Yes, there were also representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Agency for Child Protection who developed this declaration, because until now there has been none developed in the Law. I wasn't! Yes, in this bill we have separated 16-year-olds because they are underage too, subject to the appropriate sanctions, respectively the declaration of accompanying minors. I understand your inconvenience. You all know very well the politicians that this law is necessary, these amendments are necessary in order to really move forward. I don't get it, because you didn't say anything in particular here, just to say something, not to pass the bill of two votes. After the first version of this bill was presented to you, your parliamentary group, there were absolutely no opinions, opinions, remarks. He was viewed by a parliamentary group before being submitted for signature. You didn't make any suggestions. Once again, the final version has been presented so that the respective parliamentarians can be acquainted and appropriate amendments are made before it is tabled. No, there was no such thing. I understand, yes, because you have been an opposition, you should not support something that is tabled by other parliamentary groups not only by the government. That's your approach. The championship begins, obviously you want to continue this state, which is now, despite the declared good intentions and the very active participation of representatives of the BSP in this working group Mr. Chenchev. I'm sorry, it's really one thing to talk, it's another to act. Well, you only have fairy tales. Soon, there was a call: It is time to act. " - Well, don't act! The action is through legislation, active work and the adoption of a law. At least listen to the call that was made to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u80	I'll start backwards. Dear Mr. Lazarov, on Wednesday, did you not know that the Law was important and vital? Then why did you bring it in as an emergency point now? There was nothing else on the agenda at all. If it was so important, why didn't you bring it in? [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.)]] There's no such thing! Regarding Mr. Atanasov's line. Yes, you are right, Mr. Atanasov, but as you yourself said, for years nothing has been done in this direction and now, at the moment, I do not see what is so vital the urgent to be done as soon as, as you said, December month will propose the new bill, which will cover the entire problem? I don't see what makes it so urgent.! On the other hand, the deadlines. There's a two-week deadline. We don't want an extra extension or anything. Just in the two-week period to make the changes we want. We'll bring them in, nothing so fatal happens. Regarding Mrs. Georgieva's thinking. You seem to be a supporter of the thesis that the thought stops the action and that is why you successfully execute every single order? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! I will ask our colleagues and other parliamentary groups to support this bill for amending the Law. We call it football hooliganism, but it's for any other sporting event. The occasion. The occasion was an accident, an accident with an employee of the Ministry of Interior and then all the political forces declared, declared and you [[turned to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] that urgent measures must be taken. Typical for your party you have remained only in declarations, declarations, declarations, declarations, and nothing you really want to do after two months working the working group. What's the emergency? If you had read the Bill, if you had met him, you would see that we are giving the Ministry of Interior the opportunity to impose forced administrative measures and the corresponding fines immediately, and not as so far a slightly longer procedure in court. What's the other emergency? And at the moment, the Act in force, you know very well, colleague Baichev, you are a lawyer, these acts of the court are not subject to judicial review as under the Anti-Little Bullying Act. They're unconstitutional. And that's urgent, and that's what we're changing. But I understand that all you want to do is talk and talk without doing anything real. There are indeed some legislative initiatives, even specifically you could not say what legislative initiatives. Specifically, we want to change that or drop that. This is your goal to sabotage. But remember, this is at the cost of possible adverse incidents, which reduce the audience, from which visitors of sports events may suffer. Obviously, this is what the tensions are about to continue?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I sit, listen, and am perplexed. Such violent passions under this law, and it is the Law that is adopted, I have the feeling, by the extraordinary means, as extraordinary legislation that is inherent in other societies, in other situations, I feel that something very scary and dramatic has happened in the country, instead of fighting to adopt laws against Gypsy crime, against that crime that is really harassing the Bulgarians. I am expressing this opinion and I wonder from the point of view of absolute impartiality as a Bulgarian citizen, who is far from sports events and football at all and who is reasoning in general political, and as a lawyer, for me what we are doing right now, and all this aplomb that is being spoken to, and all this drama is too artificial. And now there are measures in the Penal Code, in the Bulgarian legislation, which are effective. You saw how, given this incident, the government, the Ministry of Interior, dealt with it very quickly. They found the perpetrator immediately, and he's on the basis of the criminal code, the criminal procedure code. That is, this is a typical example of the fact that there are laws, they are good, but they must be respected as other laws that regulate all this activity. Why do we need to implement and make such extraordinary measures and means that bring us into doubt about a police state?! Dear colleagues, my opinion has always been that the problems in this area, to call it, in sports legislation and in the fight against football hooliganism and other similar appearances, are in the model of liberal thinking, which makes people so to carry out these acts. No extraordinary, special, criminal laws will put them in the way of this law. Some will say: "Yes, there are similar laws in Europe, we copy them. " - But even there things are no better, they are no different, because modern thinking is such that it implies people, unbridled, people who do everything they can for their ego, for their expression. That's the attitude, and that's where it all comes from. That's why I'm very skeptical. Let us put into effect all our current legislation as it is, but apply as we see it being implemented in the last few months and one year and thus solve problems and issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is a huge document - the European Convention on football and sports hooliganism, which is signed by our Minister Kralev, is signed by all the ministers of the European Union and we will have to ratify it in September or October together with all European parliaments. [[Shows the European Convention.]] This convention, at the heart of which is this man, who will come to Bulgaria on Sunday, is practically a manual on how to make a modern law against football hooliganism. I assure you that our current legal base, although Mr. Shopov was a former judge, has nothing to do with it, I repeat, has nothing to do with these modern measures against football hooliganism. Therefore, colleagues, I do not accept this statement from my colleague who spoke just now. Maybe he didn't know enough about the materials, but at the moment this is already being applied throughout Western Europe. We have studied the legislation of England, Spain and Italy countries where they have solved their problem. As far as through-the-book legislation is concerned, it is in far more democratic countries than ours. A typical example is Britain when the tragedy occurred in Hazel in 1985 and 87 fans died at the stadium. Then the entire English society, headed by Thatcher and headed by all parties, has no liberals, no conservatives, created extraordinary legislation and it is now a pleasure to go to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u87	Your time is running out, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u88	It's a pleasure watching a game in England.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u89	Thank you, your time is up. [[The National Representative Slavcho Atanasov spoke with MPs from BSP about Bulgaria.]] Please don't enter into a conversation. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u90	Mr. Atanasov, legend and myth is that with laws in Europe and around the world, these phenomena are tarnished and ended with this drama. It's not like that, they keep going. You also saw at the World Cup in Russia that measures were applied, but they were not by extraordinary laws. These laws in Russia were not by directives as you pointed out and by instructions. In the end, things came out exemplary as holding the World Cup, given that there are laws being followed and there is a line that we can dream of and which can be an example of how to carry out here. That's the problem. Mr. Atanasov, everyone in this room knows that until people change their thinking, their behavior will not change, and these phenomena will continue to spread.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u91	Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u92	And people's thinking changes with the model, people's thinking can change if people start being raised by young people, by children, in the sense, in the tradition of values, of Christian values, for which it is necessary to introduce a belief, which so long ago we at Ataka are talking about, which we have been pleading for, which we have been asking for for for years now. Such people will be adequate, they will be normal, good citizens and will not do what we will try with extraordinary legislation, with police measures to introduce. Why did we make this revolution? We have made a revolution in the name of democracy, of the freedom of the people to declare themselves, to rejoice, to be able to live in a normal and pleasant way. This with hundreds, even thousands, as it happens, police officers taken out on the streets will not happen and will not work until man's thinking changes. That's the bet, that's the explanation, that's the reason, and that's what we have to strive for.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u93	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will say some facts, because I understand that some of the Members in this Chamber are not familiar. The Law on hooliganism has been worked on for more than six, seven months. The task force was set up four months ago. I could be wrong, plus minus a few days ago. A definition, such as emergency legislation and emergency measures, is evidently there are people who are not particularly familiar with what has been done so far and what is the emergency. I wonder if BSP colleagues will have the opportunity and courage to tell policewoman Gergana Zasheva, for example, why they would not support these emergency measures? [[Applause from GERB.]] If you really haven't figured out what the emergency is so far, then you've really messed up legislative activity. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, No 854-01-67, submitted by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 6 July 2018. They voted 149 MPs: 99, none, abstention 50. The offer is accepted. We're continuing with procedure. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! Because on Saturday the football championship itself begins, I propose that between first and second reading the days be three due to the emergency situation. I won't hide it. The football championship is about to begin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u97	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Slavcho Atanasov to reduce the period between the two readings to three days. They voted 154 MPs: 99, against 36, abstention 19. The offer is accepted. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first point of it is: DISCLOSURES ON THE COMPANY OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE CORNELIA NINOVA TO THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, BOYKO BORISOV ON THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE MIGRATION IN BULGARIA AND EUROPOLIA. You have the floor, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u98	Just a second, Mrs. Ninova, to read the procedure. Just for a second. In connection with discussions on the asking of the MP Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government of migration issues in Bulgaria and Europe. At the request of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova was answered at the meeting on 13 July 2018, Friday. At the same meeting, 68 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 13 July 2018, Friday. A second draft for a decision by 9 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and the parliamentary group of "United patriots" was introduced, NFSB, "Attack" and IMRO on 19 July 2018, Thursday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for decisions, as should be voted on: 1. Draft decision submitted by 68 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. Project for a decision tabled by 9 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and from the parliamentary group of Please, first of all, Mrs. Ninova, introduce us to the proposal for a decision. [[Heckling]] Procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u99	Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Petya Parvanova, Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u100	We are voting on this proposal. They voted 146 MPs: 133, against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Parvanova to the hall. And now, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u101	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u102	I'm absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u103	Dear Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! We challenged this debate because the migrant issue stands with full force before Europe and Bulgaria. He brought serious contradictions and confusion between the European countries and the leaders and is a risk to the future of Europe, according to some of them, and, of course, is important for the national security of Bulgaria. Mistakes have been made in the years back and, if we are really concerned about the future of Europe and Bulgaria, we must learn from these mistakes. Alas, they are repeating themselves as if they are deepening at the moment. How did it all start? Mrs Merkel invited migrants in 2015 and opened the doors of Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, do you remember at that time in 2015, your visit to Valletta, Malta, and what were you doing there? I can remind you! The topic of your meeting and your talks was:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how it all started to get here now. Just a few days ago, Mr. Prime Minister, you said that: "The big problem of Bulgaria is legal and legal migration." In 2015, you gathered to look for ways to organize and encourage it. In 2018, you find that this is our big problem. Now fences are being built between European countries in violation of the European Union's fundamental value for free movement of people. Now there are many extreme and polar opinions, and that of leading leaders in Europe I will refer only to some of them. Mrs Merkel and Germany as a state, as a position after inviting them in 2015, today says: I want to protect Europe's humanity in relations with migrants. The other final position of Hungary, expressed by Mr Orban: The migrants threaten the identity of the European Union. Germany insists on the countries of the European Union accepting part of the migrants. The Visegrad Four and Hungary say, "We will not accept quotas. This is against the sovereignty of our countries. The responsibility for them lies with the governments of other countries that they have been through before. Bulgaria, fellow Members, is such a country! Leaders in Europe are urging: The incentives for migrants to come to Europe must be eliminated. "Alas, Europe is continuing today with incentives for their arrival, because in the future European budget, in the budget for the next programming period, the money for the integration of migrants, colleagues, not for the protection of the border, not for Frontex, not for additional security, but for the integration of migrants is increasing from 6.9 billion. EUR 10,4 billion Euros. Moreover, this money is taken from cohesion, agricultural policy and the social pillar of the emerging European citizens! Your government, Mr. Borisov, also creates incentives for new migrants to come to Bulgaria. Here's how: with the adopted Strategy of the Government, in which it is written that they are viewed as a workforce that will help the economy, and I do not know exactly what will solve the demographic crisis in Bulgaria. Official document of Bulgaria! The worse, however, is that you are stimulating the arrival by Decree No 144, in which you have written that: an alien with asylum granted or with refugee status has the rights and obligations of a Bulgarian citizen, except for the political one to take part in a referendum and so on. Okay, but you are transferring the border to the Bulgarian Constitution and the rights of Bulgarian citizens and to the national interest of the state. Here's how: "Provide the payment of hospital care provided for diagnosis and treatment in medical facilities of persons who do not have income. " Bulgaria does not provide this to its own citizens! Bulgarians who have no income and poor Bulgarians do not receive this payment from the state! With these acts, you give them more rights than you give your own people, but you invite them: Come, we will provide you with social assistance for example for issuing an ID card, housing assistance and so on. On top of all this, Mr. Borisov, you expose two conflicting positions constantly. Here, in front of the Bulgarian people you speak one thing, there, in front of your European colleagues....................................................................................... Here's how you quote: Here: We are the most securely guarded border of Europe. There, in Brussels: We have to admit that we have missed 60 000 migrants and now we have to bear our responsibility for this. Here in Bulgaria: In Brussels I was called cynical and brutal because I did not sign the agreement for migrants. There, at the Council: "There is a common solution adopted with full agreement" for which Mr Tusk, the President of the European Council says: "We have reached full agreement, this is the easiest part of the task compared to what awaits us on the ground when we start applying what we agreed to. And now what did you agree to, Mr. Borisov? Here you told us: "Everything Bulgaria has offered has been accepted." We found out from the Hungarian Foreign Minister on the contrary: We do not accept Bulgaria's proposal. The same mistake comes again with this proposal, which is what we said in the... to invite migrants back to Europe....................................... to invite migrants back to Europe.................................... Here in Bulgaria, you said: "I told Sebastian this is Sebastian Kurtz, the Chancellor of Austria I do not want them, I will not let the planes go. ▪ What have we found out from your colleagues again? The Hungarian Foreign Minister: We do not accept Bulgaria's proposal to divide migrants among the countries in Europe according to gross domestic product, population and asylum applications received. So, you say to us that you said, "We won't let them go, there you have proposed to accept them each country according to what gross domestic product there is, how many population and what applications there are received. Dear Prime Minister and colleagues! It is time to talk seriously about this subject and make responsible decisions. We have two proposals for a draft decision, you will decide which one you will support. But as a result of this inconsistent, dual policy, as a result of the lack of clear solutions of the state authorities and institutions in Bulgaria all fears, manipulations, insinuations and suggestions, including in relation to the recent events for which the two ministers are here. [[GERB lines.]] Starting with Bezmer's planes landing at night. [[Elevator bell dings]] And we get to that. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] That what's happening in Strandja... [[(Sighs) Who's talking about it?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u104	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u105	...is the result of a desire to accommodate migrants in the belt of the border with Turkey. We have two approaches: either our proposal the state institutions take decisions and give clarity to their people, or GERB's reaction to these suggestions is the guilty leader of the opposition and the President of the Republic, who shake national security. One is this, the other is the State Department. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear Members, we have two proposals for solutions. Of course, our listeners and viewers don't know what they are. Just a moment ago we heard that BSP never offers anything concrete and clear. Let's see now. We propose a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament in two points. One says: "The Council of Ministers is obliged to adopt a decision against the readmission of migrants in Bulgaria, including against the conclusion of bilateral agreements with other Member States of the European Union. " Is it specific? Second, by 30 September 2018, the Council of Ministers shall present to the National Assembly Bulgaria's proposals for reform of the so-called Dublin refugee admission system and specific regulation, number and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm asking for time from the group!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u106	From the group, pick up the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u107	Dear Bulgarians, we also have a proposal from GERB and, Mr. Prime Minister, to you personally. It says this...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u108	GERB will read it, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u109	I would like to present our proposal compared to that of GERB and no one can limit me to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u110	You're making a statement right now. [[Loud noise.]] Continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u111	GERB proposes today that Parliament decide the following, that is to reject our proposals that there should be no bilateral agreement on the return of migrants, that there be no change in Dublin and that we accept the following, honourable Bulgarians: Colleagues, I am prepared to give you two minutes of my time if one of you gets up and says what was the position of the Republic of Bulgaria at the European Council meeting. Is there one who knows it? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No!"]] What do you support if you don't know what the position was?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You know why you don't know?! You do not know because the position of the Republic of Bulgaria does not have one accepted in the National Assembly, there is no one accepted by the Council of Ministers, but there are personal emotions and intentions of Mr. Borisov according to the situation he is in. They won't be allowed in Bulgaria, but Mrs Merkel may be letting them in! We therefore insist that there should be a state-owned attitude, a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian Council of Ministers. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We accept this offer of yours to support the position expressed by the Republic of Bulgaria only if for you the Republic of Bulgaria is the person Boyko Metodiev Borisov because there he expressed only his personal position. Secondly, GERB proposes: "The Council of Ministers is asking the Council of Ministers to stand up for the national positions on all legislative proposals related to the Reform of the common European asylum system. Dear colleagues, by offering Bulgaria to stand up for national positions, again I give you two minutes of my time, one to stand up and say what are the national positions of Bulgaria and which body of Bulgaria has accepted them......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It does not have such national positions, but once again has the will of one person who does not reflect the decisions of the Bulgarian state institutions and does not defend the Bulgarian national interest. Mr. Borisov, I'm warning you, I'm paying attention to you, I don't know! [[Noise.]] This decision of GERB is a trap for you. These are general tales of support for positions that Bulgaria has not taken in its organs and gives reasons from here on every day, on every occasion and in every word and position to receive reproaches and blows. Whose position do you express by going to Europe to Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian national interest, or the party position of GERB and your personal position according to the situation you are in? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I call for our decision to be supported, which, in addition to giving concrete parameters, the Bulgarian government does not sign a bilateral agreement on the return of migrants and to provide a proposal for reform in Dublin, except that it is concrete and clear, de facto in support of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister of Bulgaria from the Bulgarian Parliament, gives it reasons when it goes, to say: "This is what the Bulgarian Parliament wants from me." It is your choice, of course, whether you will support this of the BSP, which is stately and responsible, or you will accept yours, which is general talk of supporting national positions that do not exist either in legal or political peace! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. To motivate his draft decision has the word Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u113	Dear Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of Parliament! The theme "Migration" -- all that has happened in recent years since the Arab Spring -- is a topic that is discussed at every Council of Ministers of the Interior and, of course, among the leaders of the European Union. Two thousand and eleventh year, all of us witnessed the Arab Spring and the consequences that had for the European Union. At the time, Malta, Italy were the most affected, but we all showed solidarity and reacted adequately so that the consequences of this migration flow could be neutralized. What happened after the events in the Middle East since 2013 has become very difficult. In the second half of 2013, Bulgaria was one of the affected countries with the refugee flow that it had towards the country. Then our country was definitely not ready with the necessary capacity, and we were all witnessing refugees entering our country, who did not go through filtration centres, did not carry out appropriate checks and were not introduced into the Eurodac system. What there was then a complete chaos, a misunderstanding of complexity and how problems should be solved. Then we, in our capacity of opposition, alarmed and gave appropriate recommendations. Some of them were adopted, but I can also say that after the Oresharski period the government continued a policy which basically those things that were good were adopted. Ms. Nino, you have had the opportunity to say about the speech of Prime Minister Borisov and the adopted National Strategy in the field of migration, asylum and integration 2015. Yes, indeed, for what you have quoted, you are absolutely right. These expressions are within, but I can say that the power of the government today and the administration of the Council of Ministers, led by Prime Minister Borisov, when there are good things that are accepted, they should be continued as commitment and as sustainability of the system and the work of the Bulgarian government. Mrs. Ninova, however, you fail to say that 2014, when there is actually a Strategy adopted by the Oresharski Office, I will read you some paragraphs that you quote skillfully by referring them to the current government. And I can say that migration is and will continue to be a global phenomenon. When well-managed, it can bring benefits not only to national labour markets and the economic growth of the European Union, but also to immigrants and countries of origin. The immigration process has a long-term impact on the reproduction of the population, its demographic characteristics and the labour market. Immigration is a way of overcoming the macroeconomic consequences of population ageing and is a means of balancing the ratio between demand and labour supply, thereby contributing to balance of the labour market. Ms. Nino, why do you always quote what today's government is doing and never say what your government has done? Because in these policies there should be continuity, in these policies there should be political, national responsible behaviour, not populism, false news and manipulation of public opinion. I would like to recall what happened in 2013. Do you remember the report that was adopted by the Oresharski cabinet back then? This report, Mrs. Nino, is: The migration situation and the measures taken by the National Operational Headquarters to combat the crisis of illegal immigrants on 16 October 2013. Ms. Ninova, with those fears that you were playing with in the 2016 presidential campaign, these were your decisions that you made here without agreeing with the local authorities. Do you remember that?! Here it is written in this Report I can even tell you that it is on page nine, where it says that you have defined and is ready Samokov, Kazanlak, Momchilgrad to accept refugees because this is a problem that needs to be solved and the state must make maximum efforts. At the time, we, as opposition, have not played around with people's fears on this subject, because we know that this is a national responsible policy for national responsible parties and parties that are systemic and that can meet people's expectations. And because there was a lot of speculation about the so-called Decree No 208, dear Mrs. Ninova, to tell you that Order No 208. I have bothered to remove the transcript from the meeting of the Oresharski cabinet on 31 March 2017... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u114	Gerjikov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u115	I'm talking about Gerdjikov's office. I must tell you that in this meeting, which took place on Friday 31 March 2017. Five days after the parliamentary elections with a clear result and knowing who will manage, if you bother to read this transcript and the position of every minister who has spoken at this meeting, you will see that each one is astonished why this is being done extraordinaryly, why it is being done at this time and why it has not been done before. Each of the ministers says what is the procedure under the Law on Legislative Acts, that there should be a public discussion, and when you want to cancel something, you need to propose an option that needs to fill this legal vacuum. I will tell you just one thing that I think is important and must be appreciated by dignity. Ognian Gerdjikov, after hearing all these things, turns to his ministers and says: "You are putting the question quite correctly. I can't say anything against that correctness. The wish of the President of the Republic is to do this in the way that I report it. No questions, no answers, there is a very clear question as to why this is happening five days after the parliamentary elections with a clear winner and with a clear parliamentary majority that will take over the country's governance. I would especially like to thank the Bulgarian Government because we are proud of what Bulgaria has achieved for the first time as the Presidency of the European Union. Because, honourable Members, let us remember what the priorities were and I will come to the decision that we propose today to vote in the Bulgarian Parliament. I will tell you the following: Bulgaria has prepared a framework position on the reform for the "Support Regulation" as part of the common reform of the European asylum system; we support the reform of the "Support Regulation" in the direction of a fairer distribution of responsibilities and solidarity between the Member States. What we are betting in the Bulgarian Presidency is an agreement between the Member States on the creation of a working and sustainable European asylum system and migration management with the following elements: Firstly, strong external borders of the European Union, including common protection of the external border. Secondly, active work on the external dimension of migration, the conclusion of agreements with third countries of transit and origin of readmission, a stronger commitment of these countries to managing migration on their territory, including export centres for admission of refugees and financial assistance for already existing refugee camps. And that is why the European Union is providing in the new financial programming period for more funds for migration, security and precisely for such centres to be taken outside the European Union. Third, providing international protection for those in need, providing for opportunities for voluntary relocation, in emergency situations where Member States are subject to very strong pressure Dear colleagues of BSP, we support our proposal for a solution because in our proposal for a solution there is consistency and everything we have done so far gives a very clear answer why we are doing it now and why it is better than yours. Because in ours we say: firstly, it supports the position expressed by the Republic of Bulgaria at the European Council meeting on 28 and 29 June 2018 on migration issues, because the Prime Minister did not sign the agreement and did not hold talks...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u116	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u117	...on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u118	Take from the speaking group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u119	The second point is that the Council of Ministers is asked to stand up to national positions on all legislative proposals relating to the reform of a common European asylum system. Ms. Ninova, this is the Bulgarian Presidency, which started very strongly, the Austrian Presidency, which is currently taking over the European Presidency, and we will stand for the principle position that was the Bulgarian Presidency, to be implemented in the trio of Bulgaria - Austria - Romania. So we will support the decision which GERB's parliamentary group brings together with the United Patriarchs and we believe that this is the right decision, this is the sustainable proposal and solution for this issue. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Tsvetanov's statement? I can't see. Personal explanation Mrs. Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u121	Dear colleagues, from today we are in a qualitatively new situation. Until today, for all the troubles in the state, for all the failures in the management of GERB was the government of Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u122	Personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u123	As of today, we've learned that the Oresharski government has had the right policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u124	What's the personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u125	...and GERB have continuity towards it, and they want to continue it the same way. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u126	I didn't hear a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Tsvetanov, did you read the draft decision? You introduced him. We're moving on to the debate. The Parliamentary Group of GERB... Anytime you want, you can take the floor, Prime Minister. You have the right, whenever you wish, to take the floor in this procedure as you see fit. I will read the time of the parliamentary groups until the Prime Minister comes to the stand. At GERB, 19 minutes, at BSP, 16 minutes, and the two parliamentary groups used a little time to speak,.. United patriots............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the BSP, Mrs. Ninova! From the way Parliament started working today, knowing the majority, it is pretty much clear to me how it will end with the adoption of the decision. This can't be good, this can't be good, and we can't blame ourselves so much! There is an undisputed fact that, to date, Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has dealt with migrants and has almost zero pressure, and is set for example. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Let's assume that both of them were guilty when we were unprepared. That's why it's called the Migrant crisis. That's why it's called the Migrant wave. It didn't accidentally split Europe apart. No one has been prepared, and that is also our justification for these years of various types of government. It is a fact that the state as such, with all its own, including in parliament, changes of the law, so that an army, border guards, additional forces, 320 million. lv. by the European Commission to secure the border, the agreement with Turkey at the most difficult time for the European Union, when no one wanted to talk to them, we were able to bring them in, to sign the Agreement in order to sleep the tensions. Because there is no expert to tell you that without this agreement, whatever our relations with Turkey are, good or bad, we can deal with the migration wave ourselves. As many people as to be heroes, when tens of thousands come, including the safety facility, they will tear it down. Who will give the order to shoot or fight? He doesn't have one, he goes straight to The Hague to answer. Amazingly, Chancellor Merkel reminds me of you. [[Noise and cheering.]] Amazing! And with the same tricks, they put her in the same procedure as you with the goats. [[Applause and laughter at GERB.]] Wait, it's not funny. A very powerful hybrid attack, if you remember, gave the Mediterranean Sea corpses, drowned people, a little child drowned, standing on the shore. They caught the media Chancellor Merkel and she said: "We must save you, come. In the same way your deputies took you to a village where there is a quarantine, there is a plague, you to caress the goat. [[Applause and laughter at GERB.]] Very thoughtful! Very nice! Human! I, because I love animals very much, envied you for going and enjoying it! I'd do the same. I just want to tell you that the situation that she fell into then, and I'm sure to this day there's nothing else to ruin her politically, from that one sentence, because the Germans aren't a random nation, four times they choose her to be Chancellor, apparently she has qualities, this sentence is stuck to her like a brooch to this day. And that's not the most important thing in today's session. I always approach first well-meaning until I find out that they're well-meaning to me. Assuming that your debate today, which you want, is with the aim of this Parliament, as the highest authority, to guarantee the Bulgarian citizens what we have today, the centres are only up to 10. 11% full, there are no migrants, almost zero pressure, we have built properly. Where's the risk, and you're spotting it right? The risk is, yesterday I have a letter from the Prime Minister of Italy
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u128	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u129	It doesn't say, but he wrote it to all the Prime Ministers. Ireland has taken, Spain has taken, now not to list countries, tomorrow some ambassador to speak on this subject. I told him we wouldn't take it. However, the pressure, like yesterday, the European Commission started a procedure under Hungary because of the law which adopted that anyone who helps a refugee, gives him food, water or something like that was not taking it literally, started a procedure for this legislation from May, I think it was. Let Radev check it out to be precise. If we don't get into this procedure, I'm willing to take a break or two, I'll talk to my party, as long as you don't say later, because I'm the prime minister, and I'm the party president, and I can't help but tell them to at least listen to me as chairman, I guess when you gather the group, they listen to you. If our parliament makes a decision today.Two are the vulnerable places where pressure could be put, so far we have neither signed nor committed to signing bilateral agreements. But there is nothing wrong with Parliament deciding not to sign the government any kind of bilateral or whatever agreements you want. That's what I heard from your points. I repeat, because we are a parliamentary republic, the MPs are entitled to their own vote, and it will take me a minute or two to share with my colleagues, as long as you don't say they changed their opinion later! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If that's how it's done, then it's done! This is one that I repeat, after consulting the President of our parliamentary group, we could try to change. [[Private applause, shouts "Bravo" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course! [[Radio.]] Secondly, because I suppose on the subject that we have protected ourselves against migrants, this is recognised by all of us, there is no point in bragging or even talking about it, because there are many who look at us, listen to us and say: "Wait now, how they do not have, and we have so much. Let's give them a little bit. The second, you say about the Dublin agreement, you also say about the Council for consensus, you quote the Hungarian Foreign Minister. The Hungarian minister said that, but his prime minister, once we have a consensus by the Council, voted for. This is just like the sanctions against Russia before they enter, everyone is saying that the sanctions should fall and upstairs with a full... without any against, vote for the sanctions. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] It's consensus, it's called consensus. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] Vigenin laughs, but... Why is it funny and so sincere? [[Laughter]] This is called consensus, as progress on the monitoring mechanism for control and cooperation, progress, and the name itself is very nice, progress. The second under the Dublin Agreement is to make one decision that the government can sign, to plead.. because today the Prime Minister of Italy is making another proposal after seeing that there are countries that are asking the European Commission to create such a body that automatically, in such a situation, imposes solutions. Then the government becomes very heated because you yourself have shared one is reducing the money for cohesion, the other for agriculture, the third... and various other instruments. In order not to get into such a situation, a decision can be made for the government not to be able to sign, to take, to do anything on this subject without having a mandate of parliament. And that's what I'd talk to my colleagues about accepting, because with this, by accident, you're helping me a lot. If this is the goal, the benevolent one, if the parliament accepts these two sentences, I think everyone will be satisfied, will be calm and we can continue this path. We cannot change the Dublin agreement. What the Hungarian foreign minister reacted to just to tell you, but his prime minister understood it, sat next to me, and that's why he voted. And I said to him: "Okay, Victor, imagine that tomorrow the relations with Turkey are broken and a million two are coming to Bulgaria. " - In this extreme situation, how should we react? Is there supposed to be a relocation to you, or are we gonna get up?[Grunts] How? And he says, "You're right. There must be, let them go, just as it was at the beginning. That was our offer. We had made them so that there was automaticism on three levels: the first level, which is now; the second level Then this mechanism is triggered so that all countries can bear the burden, because we will be the first to be overwhelmed! That was our logic. It's not ambiguity. She's not one here, another there. This is what I have done, which you are talking about, not in Bulgaria, but in the couloirs of the Council before the Bulgarian journalists, in Brussels itself. And it's all written down in protocols. Finally, when it had to be taken by consensus at night, everyone agreed just to come up with a consensus. No one thought that was the decision we made there. And that is why it continues now with this power in Spain, in Italy. You can already see that Africa has flooded more Spain than Italy. The most migrants are now in Spain. And there's a lot of pressure. Yesterday or the other day, the official information came out. Radev can show it to you [[noise and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] So if the idea of this really very important event, with that I'm done, was to protect the state, we are also ready to protect it, to accept these two sentences, not to engage in attacks on who is guilty, whether Oresharski, whether we are. It's all our fault. We've been unprepared, 20 thousand have entered during your government, 43,000 have been during our government. I mean, you could say you've got two to one, you're more guilty. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what I'm saying! But if you had stayed a little longer, you would have had 60,000. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] And you'd be the only one to blame! So I suggest, if you want, one minute to take a break, to gather at the Chairman's Council, to formulate two such decisions, if the goal is benevolent. If you don't, you see, we're prepared. We can talk for two more hours, and we can't accomplish anything. I propose, and the decision is parliament's will, we will execute this decision as a government. What is important is that there is consensus and when we go there to say: on these two points I do not have a mandate, I want, but I cannot, because the parliament has said that this must go this way and this way. If you think so! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u130	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do we have the consent of the chairmen of parliamentary groups to do 15 minutes to clarify...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u131	Five! Five minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u132	Well, we can't get out of the room in five minutes... Or right here in the gym? [[(Noise and lines. Happy tidings. (Laughter)]] Okay, guys, five minutes will be enough for you? [[Heckling]] All right, take five. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u133	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. Mr. Kirilov has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u134	I am making a proposal by procedure, which is in line with the previous procedural proposal, to extend the plenary time of today's meeting until the hearing of the interior and agriculture, food and forestry ministers is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u135	Please vote. Vote 171 MPs: for 167, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I am closing the debate on this point. Mrs. Ninova, please read the joint draft decision from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u136	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues! After the talks we held at the Presidential Council, we offer you with the signatures of all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups the following decision of the National Assembly: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debate on questions, No 854-05-41, of 20 June 2018 by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government on migration in Bulgaria and Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking into account the conclusions of the European Union of 28 June 2018, HAS DECIDED 1. Obliges the Council of Ministers not to sign bilateral agreements on the readmission of migrants. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to submit to the National Assembly a position for a common decision of the European Union on migration issues. 3. By 30 September 2018, the Council of Ministers shall present to the National Assembly proposals for the reform of the so-called Bulgarian National Assembly. Dublin refugee admission system, and in particular Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 Next are the signatures: Cornelia Ninova and the presidents of all parliamentary groups. [[Noise and lines. Happy tidings.]] Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Mr. Karadayi... [[Applause.]] Volen Siderov, all groups. [[Noise and lines.]] My fellow Members, I would like to thank you for the common sense that we have shown that you supported our proposals, that with reasonable proposals we have even supplemented and strengthened them, taking into account the position of the European Union, the second is the position of the Council of Ministers to adopt a decision against return, we have directly obliged the Council of Ministers not to sign bilateral agreements, as well as to submit to the National Assembly a position of the Council of Ministers for a common decision of the European Union and the third point you know it is also ours for the revision of the Dublin regulation. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause.]] I thank both my colleagues and the Prime Minister. I think we have properly defended Bulgaria's national interest and the common European interest. Thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u137	Colleagues, I'm voting on Mrs. Ninova's new draft decision. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: for 177, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Let us thank Prime Minister Borisov for his participation in today's debates. Colleagues, here are the Minister of Interior Mr. Radev and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Porozhanov who asked to come and give information about the plague epidemic in the municipalities of Yambol and Burgas. There is a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u138	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today in 1903, the biggest uprising of the Bulgarians from Macedonia and Edirne Thrace against the Ottoman Empire broke out. Today all of us, modern Bulgarians, owe respect and respect to the feat and sacrifice of Illindians and transversists. Noting this day, however, we, from the United patriots, are obliged to take another issue concerning modern relations with the Republic of Turkey. By letter to the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Sofia, we, MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, strongly oppose the request made by the Turkish state for extradition of Bulgarian border guards investigated for the death of a Turkish poacher. We find the same as unfounded interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and destroying the good neighbourly relations between our countries. Our objection relates to the case of 17 April 2008, when a Turkish boat enters Bulgarian territorial waters. In an attempt to arrest Braconier fishermen, one of them was shot by Bulgarian border police officer Mikhail Tsonkov and he, along with three of his colleagues, were accused of his death. An investigation has been conducted in the town of Sliven, which found that the Bulgarian border police have acted legally, and death is the result of what is called a random act. With the sentences of the Bulgarian court, poachers are sentenced for illegal crossing the border and for inflicting bodily damage to border guards. Following a referral by the heirs of the deceased Turkish citizen, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Bulgarian State has conducted a comprehensive, objective and rhythmic investigation, its conclusion being that there is no crime and a criminal act committed. Bulgaria has signed the European Convention on Extradition with the Reserve, according to which our country does not extradite its citizens. Furthermore, according to the Convention, there is mutual recognition of sentences and there is no way for the same person to receive punishment after proceedings against him have been brought against him in another country due to a lack of crime. On the basis of the above, ladies and gentlemen, we find it unacceptable to request extradition, which ignores the decision of the Bulgarian Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. We believe that this way the Turkish state does not contribute to the development of good neighbourly relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. In conclusion, we, from the United patriots, confirm that we will always defend the honor of every decent and honest Bulgarian citizen and will not allow violation of the decisions of the Bulgarian Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I forgot to give out the written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva to the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on two questions from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov of the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the MPs Valentin Lambev, Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Bogdan Botsev, Elhan Kulkov and Nikolay Boshkov and Tomov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to ask the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Mr. Porozhanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u140	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We would like to introduce you to the situation concerning the small ruminants plague in Bulgaria. Do I have at least five minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u141	You do, yes, of course. You have all the time you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u142	The disease of small ruminants is caused by a virus that affects sheep and goats, but is not dangerous for humans. The source of infection is sick animals. The transmission of the disease takes place with direct contact between sick and healthy animals, as well as with virus-infected feed, equipment, vehicles, beds. The presence of the disease in a particular territory severely restricts the possibility of trade in animals as well as animal production. It is extremely important to strictly respect all restrictions imposed and implement measures to eradicate the disease. In case of clinical signs of the disease with suspected contact with infected animals, the official veterinarian should be informed immediately. I'd like to give a history of the disease in the last two months: On 4 June, during milking, some details will come in here, I would like to apologize in advance, but it is important to understand the owner has noticed a leak of blood from one place to one animal. It was treated for several days with antibiotics, but failed. In two other sheep from the same herd, a deterioration of PPR characteristics was later detected, this was a plague, the reduction of the plague. Clinical signs: swollen head, swelling from the eyes, nostrils, fever. Samples of internal organs were sent, blood from an anti-campulant to be tested at the National Diagnostic Research Institute of Veterinary Medicine. Blood samples were taken for testing both from this animal object and two more adjacent to it, as animals use a common water supply. On 19 June 2018, the laboratory positive for the PPR disease was the plague, and samples were sent to confirm the positive result in a reference laboratory in France. On 23 June 2018, the letter from the reference laboratory was received with positive results. Order No RD-11/1065 was issued on the 26th to the Executive Director of BABBH after the diagnosis was announced by the Institute to take the necessary activities and measures. On June 25, after the result of the reference laboratory, the confirmation was issued again by the Executive Director of BABM No РД-11/1089 for the euthanization of 1408 pcs. small ruminants in 21 animal sites in the village of Voden. A total of 1337 blood samples were taken from ODBH I would like to say that the clinical examinations of the animals from neighbouring settlements in the supervisory zone continue. In the village of Kosti "to avoid getting into details, this is the second case, this is in the municipality of Malko Tarnovo, Burgas region. There's a similar picture there. However, I would like to stop at the development of the epizootic situation in the village of Kranovo, Strandzha and Sharkovo in Yambol region. The villages fall into the 10-km zone of the village of Voden. From these, blood samples have been taken to study the plague with three protocols, I will not read them all, and are sent to the European Reference Laboratory, the city of Montpellier in France. The lab's the same. She's in Montpellier, and that's the name of the lab. The results of these samples were confirmed by Protocol No 6518075/1 of 9 July 2018. On the basis of the 22 positive results received, on 10 July, Order No 11-1245 of the Executive Director of BASH announced three new outbreaks of the disease of small ruminants in establishments located in the villages of Kranovo, Strandzha and Sharkovo all located in Yambol district. On July 12, euthanasia took place in the villages of Strandzha, 227 animals, in Kranovo, 117. Autopsies were made of two euthanized sheep in the village of Strandzha and two in the village of Kranovo. The results of the autopsy showed: cyanosis throughout the gastrointestinal tract, highly enlarged marbled spleen, lymph nodes with a casesic mass. There were pneumatic outbreaks in the lung. The following tissue samples have been taken from the autopsied sheep, not to list them, but they also include lung, spleen, lymph nodes and so on. The same were sent in due order to the Laboratory of Epizootic and Especially Dangerous Diseases at our institute, which I mentioned, they were also sent for virus isolation and virus typing in the French laboratory. From the point of view of virus typing, I open one clamp, the virus is trivalent to other expertises and quadruplent, and the genotype of this virus is to the different extent of manifestation. One has a rapid high mortality rate, medium and lower. The virus that is in the Republic of Turkey is precisely from the third with a much slower manifestation of the clinical path and slower mortality, but in general they are all equally dangerous and end in the same way. On July 12, 10 blood samples were taken with protocols the number of each of them, from unidentified 10 sheep before their euthanization in the village of Strandzha and Kranovo with a request again for a study of PPR and foot-and-mouth disease. On July 13th, euthanasia of sheep took place in the village of Sharkovo in two sites. The numbers are with me. A clinical examination of the animals prior to euthanasia revealed typical signs of the disease. In the second site there was a sheep who was in a visiblely oppressed state and when urging he could not stay on his feet for long after he got up. During euthanasia, one dead sheep was found in the first object and two dead sheep in the second object. No samples were taken for examination due to advanced post-mortal processes. The 16 other sheep before their euthanasia were taken blood samples with protocols. The numbers were taken from the village of Sharkovo with a request for the study of the plague. I've been described here many more samples and so on. On 18 July 2018, a disease of another establishment in the town of Bolyarovo was confirmed in the framework of the surveillance. I want to tell you that in the village of Voden and the three settlements in Bolyarovo, the others are confirmed by the French laboratory. Only in the village of Bones do we not have confirmation from the French laboratory, but the requirement is, once we have one confirmation that confirms the way and method of the method of PCR, it is one method of PCR that is used is not necessary. Over 6000 samples have been taken, 400 of them have been sent, even if you will, because of interest from the French laboratory, because it is a new disease that is on the territory of the European Union in border Bulgaria with Turkey. It is no coincidence that we now have a mission that ends today in terms of getting acquainted with how the Bulgarian authorities deal with the fight against this disease. At the moment, only in the village of Sharkovo do we have one herd that is not euthanized and two smaller in the same village of 10 of 12 goats. We have stopped with very strict compliance with disinfection policy and strict control from the point of view of the admission of people for non-proliferation of the disease, of course, and control over animal care. I'm opening the clamp for the town of Bolyarovo. In the town of Bolyarovo yesterday I was and we created some tips. I'll go back to the council, maybe let Minister Radev talk about these advices. We also made a Regional Council where the Regional Council is chairman, the staff of the Ministry of Interior and the Border Police, the heads of BABBH and the Ministry of Agriculture. We took this advice. In Bolyarovo the farm itself is from about two hundred and several sheep, it is isolated, 15 km away from Voden. There is no access to the remaining herds that are in the village of Sharkovo and because there are no clinical signs of the animals at the moment, we agreed with the owners that we will take a second sample under very strict quarantine control so that we can confirm with at least one more sample to see if there is a disease, yet we postponed for today to take the samples. Today, everything is being done to prevent our doctors from taking these samples. We're definitely concerned about the situation, because we have a few herders right now. One of them belongs to Aunt Dora. I want to say again: to Aunt Dora or Grandma Dora, there is no positive result there. However, the herd is in the village of Voden, where I told you how many results there were in two herds in total 22. So in the context of the fact that the animals there are in one place, they are contactable. There is no way to make a different approach in terms of dealing with the disease. This is also confirmed by the advice of the virologists who were in the crisis. Claire is one of the leading virologists, yesterday we had a very random opportunity to run into each other in Bolyarovo and I invited him to our council, to our municipal council, which was there, and we just commented on the case in the town of Bolyarovo because there is no clinical path, because it is separated, to take a second sample. It's just information. I open the clamp immediately: no one enjoys it, including me, do not think that veterinarians who perform this euthanasia of animals or killing in a humane way are done without appropriate empathy for the process. It's what we can and do. Of course, we had certain communication problems in the first days with the owners. This is what we have read and I believe that from the point of view of communication and information about the disease, we did not accidentally also Central Headquarters, we did not accidentally do the district headquarters, neither did I, nor my employees, to not go to a place to talk to people. Yes, they must have clear information about the danger of the disease. I mean, it is confirmed, including you have seen from the statement of Commissioner Andrews, who also gave an interview to a correspondent of Bulgarian National Television and yesterday in a statement that these are the right measures. I only open the clamp for the benefits. The compensations in the village of Voden and in the village of Kosti have already been paid back this week, I have already forgotten the days. Those who do not have accounts at hand in the town hall are already charged to the other farmers. Today they are paid in the town halls and should already have been paid between 12:00 and 14.00 in the village of Kranovo and the village of Strandzha. On Monday, all the cattle of Sharkovo, whose herds have been destroyed, will also be paid the benefits. The compensations have been said many times, we have distributed information in the town halls and in our district municipal services: for a sheep or goat we give no less than 190 levs. This is well above the market price at the moment, and this is the minimum price. For those under selection control the price is at least 250 BGN. for sheep or goat. I mean, the average payment that these farmers received for the three herds under selection control, I think they were in Voden, at the first payment, is about 327 In addition, there is a vote of compensation under the Programme De Minimise. I am opening the clamp of seven of the municipalities are closed from the point of view of the possibility of movement of animals and trade in products closed by order of the European Commission, as we are obliged to inform the European Commission at the moment of the onset of the disease. Initially, the so-called regionalisation ban was on the whole districts of Yambol and Burgas. As a result of the communication the Food Agency made, the regionalization was reduced so that the products of three other municipalities of Yambol and other municipalities of Burgas could be traded. In the seven municipalities in which lactation of sheep and goats is currently in its last months - July and early August, we will make compensation up to 40 BGN. per sheep plus another 15 leva, plus another 7 leva. Three are the schemes that accumulate to be able to cover an animal the costs of the disreputable viewing they are currently doing and that they cannot deliver their milk. These schemes are under the program De Minimise, on which the reception is under way from yesterday. Everyone can apply and our commitment is between five and ten days after the submission of the documents to process these payments and to be sent. The reception lasted from 19 this month to the end of August. However, we will not wait for generalisation, the payment will be made in due time. That's the situation right now. There's a lot more samples, like I said. It will continue and continue continuously in 20 days to explore these places in the 10-mile zone, or these are the seven municipalities, conditionally speaking, and will, of course, expand to have guarantees in another 10-mile zone. The good thing is that the number of negative samples is prevailing, mass and so on, but when positive samples come out it means that we have a disease in the respective settlements. That's what I'd like to give as initial information. Of course, if I have to, I'll give you an extra one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. Now I give the floor to Minister Radev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be the complementary speaker. I will only say the more important things and what is the task of the Ministry of Interior. First thing, why are we here? We are here, ladies and gentlemen, because there is not enough trust in the institutions. I'm sure each and every one of you thinks it and believes it. We're here for another reason. After we made the so-called crisis headquarters, we held a meeting and decided that we should at least notify the Conference of Presidents. We came and were here twice on Tuesdays and Wednesdays in the morning. We have exposed what you have heard, only in a much shorter version, the things we knew then before the MPs who represent and lead the parliamentary groups. We asked for trust, trust and support in what we do. They told us remarks, I repeat about those who are not in the Chamber, or those who have not heard, including citizens: there were remarks, communication about what we had done was not good. They wanted more evidence, orders, and so on, not to go into detail, but all of this we promised and said: "Yes, what you tell us, we will do, but we ask you for your trust." I want to thank the opposition right here. This is genuine, because in such a situation, mistakes are certainly made. Our colleagues may not make a comment because they trust us more than you do, but you literally pointed out some of the things that seem to have been corrected. And now we are here in front of you, before the MPs, to say, apart from what is the development of what happened at the two meetings in the National Assembly only in front of the heads of the parliamentary groups, to add this information, and to ask again for understanding and trust through you, because many people believe you and so must be. This is our third attempt. A few more things to complete the picture. They asked us for orders, asked us for documents, if there was a plague, or if there wasn't, I think we did. We think everything we've done so far is legal. We did what we were told, and there was a piece of advice, and further orders. Two orders that I signed are important to me. One is about establishing the Interdepartmental Crisis Headquarters, which we associate with Porozhanov, Radev the two ministers, and five members of the two departments are listed inside. The second order is with the measures that we will take to limit the outbreaks of infection I am talking about Monday, at the beginning when we started. These orders concern three things I want to say here to make it clear. We do not only deal with the pest of small ruminants, as they say, sheep and goats, including deer, and also with the swine fever coming from the north of the African and the avian flu. The crisis headquarters will deal with these issues. We have already held four meetings... literally in front of a day and a night sitting. The measures we need to take are described in the second commandment. They're eight measures, I won't bother you with them. I will only stress that in the second paragraph of this order it says so: "In carrying out the measures under point 1. 1 Ministry of Interior authorities to assist the employees of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I will stress what measures we have taken so far to make you hear them. The first measure is the limit. Somewhere's got the infection. How she got in we still don't know, you heard Minister Porozhanov, but we have to find her. This is one of the tasks of the Headquarters to find the reason, because if we manage to deal with the disease, the same could happen to us if this disease has passed over the border or in any other way with food. So first of all, the border, all the borders, except land, sea, ferry, everything you can think of, all the toll lines are checked, including the rail transport that goes in, we check including the toll lines that enter the country, and people, if they come from Turkey for example carry something and eat there. You know, their food is close. In what they eat, they may have sheep meat, they may have milk. All this is seized at the border and thrown into refrigerators and containers, and burned. It's the same all over the border. Particular attention is paid to the northern border of.. 140 km with Romania, where the swine flu can enter. Right now, my colleagues are pulling barbed wire, so they've decided. Our job is to protect her, too. Along the Danube, too, the pigs swam along the Danube. Whatever we can do, we'll stop. We have done what is necessary with the European Commission to warn both colleagues from Turkey and Romania. Then: 10 km is the perimeter, we enter the state. For this 10-mile perimeter, they give us an order, and we're watching it everywhere. Now, if you go from here to your hometowns, you'll notice the police 24 hours a day. There's a checkpoint on the roads in the morning, but we're just watching. They're telling us where these areas are. Now they've increased with Smolyan. Then there's a three-mile perimeter where we check everything. We're downloading everything from the cars, which is sheep's meat. I'm talking about the area of sheep's sheep's, goat's flu, or if there's any other animal, it's all being seized. We've got veterinarians with us, they're ordering us, and we're doing these things. We also assist the vets inside when they euthanize or perform any operations with the animals. And here is the big problem: I therefore asked with my colleague this meeting with you, and before that with the board, to ask the people's representation, because we think it is the easiest to convince you by giving you what you need, and through you to convince those who have chosen us down, of course, citizens and are listening now, to convince them of the correctness of our actions. When we get there, I am talking especially about my responsibilities at the Ministry of Interior, making it clear that there will be strict measures. No one should disobey the police's instructions. We've just read them, literally all the cops are aware of their orders. I'm asking you to respect them. If you have any questions, go to headquarters. To the MP, of course, we will give any information, but not just to you. My request is: to everyone you have access to and in your constituencies, any information we give is documents, orders, what we have not done. They also referred to the opposition, I think, and other colleagues when they were the chairman's councils. Mr. Siderov and others said what we did wrong. Yeah, we fixed our comms. We didn't have any documents. Everything seems to be done. If you see a flaw anywhere, we're ready to straighten it out. And then: the preservation of public order. Everyone who goes into these areas doesn't realize they're carrying the disease. We don't know that either. We are trained by the vets who are in the Commission. "Dr. Iliev and others. People who are there with cameras, without cameras, all who move in these areas and from other areas come to help Grandma Dora, or whoever they want to, are unaware. If they're not aware, here's what we tell them: it's the transmission of the disease. We're going to be strict, not because you don't have to know what's going on there, but because we're carrying disease. And if we want to protect ourselves, that's the way it is. Today we expect you to understand and support. We've established a local coordination headquarters, he's now in Borino. There we will also go, we want people to see us on the spot, and we will also help to understand the situation. If there is something not provided, be provided and declared. This is really a crisis situation. That's why we created Crisis Headquarters. The danger is real. I think everyone's convinced. That's not what I'm trying to say here. I'm sure you are, as we are, empathetic to the pain of these people. We're very well aware. I'm not going into a mercy sentence. Everyone realizes, everyone has parents and knows what the animal means to them. And the vets, I hear it from them, and they say the same thing. They're doctors, maybe they've seen a little more of this than we have. No one wants to harm anyone's animal if it's healthy. But we all have to trust them. This is why I started with confidence in the institutions most of all "The Bulgarian Food Agency is an institution, the Ministry of Agriculture is an institution, the Ministry of Interior is an institution, Parliament is the highest institution. That's why we're starting with you. Our request is that we all do so so that we increase the confidence of citizens and that they understand how great the danger is. Finally, I ask for discipline with this I will complete: everyone follow the instructions of the Ministry of Interior, because I feel that after just one day and another you may accuse us of not taking hard measures, I already hear such voices. However, in order to take them, we need your and the citizens' support to know that we are doing the right things. We offer only this option, there is no other, Europe supports us.. including the experts from Europe were here. If anyone is still not convinced, please, whatever we need, we will provide you, but we will all stand behind one position and deal with this animal plague in Bulgaria. Thank you. We're ready with our colleague to answer if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u145	Thank you, Minister Radev. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject is extremely important and today we are in a hypothesis where the ministers should only introduce us, then they should leave to do their job. Because today we have had talks with all our fellow Members, representatives from all the parliamentary groups, and the subject is extremely important to society, in this regard, if you allow us to consolidate ourselves around the possibility that each parliamentary group may have the opportunity within five minutes to make a summary of the speeches made by the ministers and to ask one or two questions, so that there may actually be no doubt that the ministers are coming, only informing and leaving. If you allow us to accept this hypothesis and this procedure, I think it will be good, because today we have shown that we can actually reach consensus in Parliament on certain national topics, and the issue of the plague is indeed the responsibility of the whole country, of all politicians and of all parliamentary groups, and of the executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I see the room's approval. We're not voting on a procedure. We will act as you suggested. Is there a question ready for the ministers? Opinion? Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! I will start by saying that yesterday, perhaps because of stress and confusion, you said some things that did not bring further comfort. On the contrary, my colleagues qualified them as a lie and we need to clarify, of course, at the very beginning. Firstly, Mr. Radev said he had received political support at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents. We, in response to this statement, asked for declassified, that is, the publication of the stenograms. It should already be public and it is clear what has been commented, who has said what and whether it can be said that they have received support for their actions. You took the liberty, Mr. Radev, on a TV show yesterday, also to claim that you could hardly do your job because the people's representative Vigenin was on duty in Sharkovo and the police could not carry him out of the area so that the police could do their job accordingly. I've been at the National Assembly since Wednesday morning. This can be checked.. we had a Commission meeting, we listened to Minister Pavlova. To tell you the truth, by appreciating the Presidency and the organization on it, I can only regret that she is not the chairman of this headquarters, but you. Thirdly, at no point has BSP claimed, and our representatives that there is no plague. What we wanted was to publish evidence of this.. the results reports. The interesting thing is that in the end and because of this pressure they were published, but yesterday unknown for what reasons they were again downloaded from the website of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, because there are clear contradictions there were records of holding. There seems to be contradictions in numbers, and there is a significant difference between what the owners declare and what data about the killed sheep and goats are in your protocols, and in the samples, respectively. That's what I'm hoping to make it clear, but you understand that there's no way this is going to put any extra trust when uploaded information is downloaded because there are different numbers for numbers. Mr. Porozhanov, you also made a suggestion on TV yesterday morning that the flock of the famous one will quote it like this: Grandma Dora has sick sheep. Sick goats, excuse me! Later it became clear that this was not the case. Here are the results of the samples and the report you sent to the World Organisation for Animal Health. By the way, it is explicitly written:.16 samples of goats, the 16 are negative, there is no claim of these 16. In the report you sent to the World Organisation, this has not been noted. You also noted in this report that all the animals in the outbreak were destroyed, and today you said they weren't. We all know there's one herd plus two small ones that haven't been destroyed. These are details, I'm just saying that these differences further create a feeling that somehow things still cannot be inserted into the way they should be under such a serious threat. Literally telegraphically, I will say what our objections were and what they are so far, because we have put these questions for a reason and tried to support public pressure by means of political measures. Firstly, the measures that were taken from the outset contradict the measures provided for in the Animal Health Act and, respectively, in the Animal Disease eradication plan. In short, since the weather is still small, there is no provision for the destruction of all herds in the 3km protection zone. There is intended destruction of a flock or holding where such infected animals are found and for the rest of the animals quarantined. It seems to me that the fact that almost a month after taking the first samples, the herd of Granny Dora with the goats, which are generally less resistant to this virus, continues to be alive and in visible good health and does not notice sick animals, proves that this approach should probably have been applied, was correct and I hope it will be corrected in the case of the one currently in Bolyarovo. This rethinking of the situation we hope will lead to a rigorous implementation of the measures originally envisaged in the plan taken by order of the Director from the beginning of this year. Secondly, the measures provided for in the Law and the corresponding plan, which I have already cited, have not been taken. It is about disinfection of farms with animals that have already been eradicated. This is in the words of the owners with whom I have spoken, and I dare say that I trust them more than the official information that comes from the institutions. I'm sorry, but that's the situation. Then, limiting the movement in the protection zone, there was no such thing, and I saw it personally, only on Tuesday, these measures were taken. It's good that you're doing this, but it's been a long time. The slaughter of the animals was wrong. The Law explicitly provides that they must be at least two meters underground, so to speak. In the village of Voden this was definitely not so, as I saw with my eyes the bones and wool of animals that had been able to dig up corpses. If that's the case, I'm sorry, this is an additional opportunity to expand the infection. I hope you'll take that into account in other cases, if that's what it takes. It's actually a prerequisite for these three things that I've listed for further spread of the disease, not so much to the people who arrive there in support of Grandma Dora. Another question is why are they actually allowed to this place? The way the killings were taken, I hope Mr. Radev will investigate it was unacceptable. The police can't break in at dark without a warrant and start killing the animals. There is a case even when it was done in the absence of the owners. Last time, the benefits. The initial information on the level of benefits created additional tensions because quite low levels were announced. Subsequently, in some negotiations, a bit like on a flea market, as the owners on the ground have said, but I hope this finds the appropriate form and in relevant solutions, higher values have been provided, but these levels also believe that they are not acceptable, as they in practice in no way compensate people for the missed benefits. I'm not going to come in here because time isn't enough either, but it's about people who, because they don't have the animals and can't recover the herds for at least another year, not to mention that it will actually take two years for them to be able to recover those herds that can restore their economic activity, have taken loans, have pastures, and so on, I won't go into detail. I hope that the Committee on Agriculture will deal with this in more detail. We appreciate that more funds have been provided, but you need to do more on this issue and our pressure here will continue. Finally, Mr. Radev, you mentioned that you are looking for the way the infected animal has entered, the way the disease has penetrated. Commissioner Andrews said this could only be done with an infected animal, he said twice. That's his opinion. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming. How does an animal like that get in? Is there any other version of this? My question to Mr. Porozhanov is, has the strain already been established to enable us to navigate in general, where is the area of origin of the infected animal? And most important! Will you change the orders already issued, whose application has been temporarily suspended, but will you change them? Will you change your approach, make sure that healthy herds are not destroyed from now on, but that the measures provided for in your own rules are implemented? Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear ministers, all the questions and then you'll answer them?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u150	After the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u151	Yeah, let's do that. Mr. Kolev, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I want to start like this when there is a problem like this, even the doubts, and not the proven disease, impose such precautionary measures, such protection as the problem exists. At the very beginning, the very fact that the problem has been distributed to such a small outbreak shows the good work that the relevant institutions have done in order to limit the problem. These protective measures have created a great deal of tension in society over a certain period of time, and the whole genesis of the problem lies in: the uninformedness of people, of society for the correctness of actions; of the need for action; of the benefits that will be obtained; of protecting the whole country from the expansion of this problem, because you know what would happen if we missed it. I am very grateful to all of you that we have united around solving the problem, and we have not united around talking and talking and we are all united in solving it. Finally, I would like to conclude with this.. let this problem be a lesson for us for the upcoming one, which is coming from Romania. I hope it does not reach Bulgaria, I pray that it does not reach Bulgaria, but it would be good to draw a lesson now.................... so that if such a problem happens to be localized and society will be informed. It does not prevent the public from knowing what awaits them right now if we miss the swine fever in Romania. In this way, people will be aware, and we will all be able to deal quickly with the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Come in for a question on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Since I only have five minutes, my attitude will be in a telegraph style, as there is no time to rush into unnecessary explanations. The attitude of our parliamentary group on the case of small ruminants plague is that the plague, colleagues, once again caught us off guard. It cannot be that when such diseases occur periodically and with a very high frequency lately, in the next disease that occurs, the plague in question, our authorities are unprepared. Unprepared in terms of this, first of all, that the Crisis Headquarters did not work. To be precise, the Crisis Headquarters worked literally yesterday.... the other day. Since that day, yes, we don't have any reproach, but since the illness has been going on since 23 you said, Mr. Minister, June to literally that day is three weeks. In three weeks, the crisis headquarters did not work, the measures to be implemented did not work and as a result we are watching this action. Recently, we have witnessed an action during the plague that we are deprived of, as every disease has an Action Plan, the ministers know that it is written in advance, in which the tasks and commitments of all the institutions that are connected, in the Crisis Headquarters are pre-listed and are simply automatically applied as in the army. It's for every disease. It was the same for foot-and-mouth disease, it was for the blue tongue, it was for dermatitis, it was for the bird flu, which currently thousands of animals are killing each other in Dobrudja, but there is no action. In this case, there's action. The action was caused by the fact that the Crisis Headquarters did not work, the government's actions were chaotic, uncoordinated among themselves, as a result of which we observe this situation. During this whole one-month period, since the disease was raging, the signals that were received from the government were too diverse. Diverse from the organization's point of view, one day we'll kill them, the next day we won't kill them. Diverse from the perspective of payments one day we will pay them 100 BGN, the next day 150 BGN, the next day 200 BGN. And the most fatal was the signal that you signaled that we are placing the checkpoints of the Stara Planina Passes, which signal for a third person or for the monitoring European Commission speaks only one thing: the Bulgarians have dropped the infection from the districts of Yambol and Burgas, it is in southern Bulgaria and are now taking measures to limit its passage to Northern Bulgaria. This signal, my colleagues, is destructive and should not be done. Even if it isn't. [[Heckling]] The press, you. During this plague crisis, the rulers presented themselves in their typical light, which I can sum up in two words: arrogant with the small farmers in the Strandzha villages and yielding to the protesters before the Council of Ministers. Secondly, why are you looking for, ministers gentlemen, trust in parliament? This is what you announced: we will seek confidence in the parliamentary groups, in parliament. Dear ministers, honourable rulers, you have lost confidence in small farmers, you have lost confidence in the peasants in the Strandja villages. There you will seek it with all the measures you have listed so far and from which some have not yet been taken. And why do we have to politicize this issue and get to Parliament when these actions are so routine and automatic in any occurrence of such a disease that you do not need to concern Parliament or politicize it as so far as your actions have been related to the previous diseases that have arisen? That's why this effect is happening, because especially this disease, we have dramatized it too much, politicized it, brought emotion to the case, which should not, which also harms the government, harms farmers, harms the country as a whole. The protests before the Council of Ministers had nothing to do with the disease. The protests before the Council of Ministers and the resignation of the Deputy Minister and the three officials are a separate story. It is a question that the government with this move acknowledged the failure of their policy in the sector of "Life" with the release of a political person - Deputy Minister, and three directorates of Directorates. So, after all, ministers, my question to you is as follows: on June 23 is confirmed by the French laboratory the presence of the virus. The real measures taken in a similar situation are from that day. I ask, Mr. Interior Minister, why are three weeks, which are an extremely long time in this situation, three weeks before that, why were no measures taken on 23 June? I'm talking about a complete blockade, I'm talking about a complete disinfection, I'm talking about what's happening right now. What is happening right now, honourable Members, was supposed to happen on June 25th, and then there would be no problem at all. My next question: why and how did we lose 100 sheep? It is clear to each of you that 100 sheep have disappeared. The number of animals present at the time of the outbreak and the number of life destroyed is estimated by 100. These 100 sheep have disappeared while taking these measures, which are now, they have moved into trunks inside the country and this is what is in Bolyarovo. God forbid that the 100 sheep in question were illegally removed from the area to spread the disease to other parts of the country. And finally, to date, we still have no answer as to where the infection came from. There are all kinds of untold versions of a farmer buying a sick sheep from Turkey and carrying the disease. For your information, colleagues, lambs and sheep in Turkey cost 50 BGN. In Bulgaria they cost 5 BGN per kg and in Bulgaria they cost 5 BGN. per kg. It doesn't make sense that someone buys a sheep for 50 leva. from Turkey and carry it to Bulgaria, purely economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! I'm not doing a flashback on what's happened so far, what communication has been. You yourself admitted that it wasn't right enough, you realized your mistakes, and you seem to be making sure that everything from now on is communicating with people, that they realize everything that's going on. However, in me, it is normal as a person who is not a virologist, not a veterinarian, but I have consulted a lot of people on the matter, it cannot be the question: why, if everything so far that has been done and it is absolutely correct, within the same perimeter where Grandma Dora's flock is, why is it standing then? I mean, is everything that's been done so far really right? Because if this herd can stay, then maybe some other herds can stay, too? Also, what will happen to this herd is my other question? In the same way as Mr. Abase I want to find out if there's a difference in registered animals in those killed? Do you have an answer to the question, if there is such a difference, where are these animals? Because with the compensation that was constantly rising and finally, as you yourself say, it has reached rates above market prices, I am concerned that this disease may be deliberately spread and that new outbreaks may be detected, however unpleasant it may sound. We know that it is possible to get such speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in. This is the last opinion, according to the agreed procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I would like to take this attitude by saying first that the questions that have been asked by the colleagues who have taken this before me will certainly complement the picture. I won't repeat any of them. Secondly, I would like to express an impression from today's debate on this topic in the National Assembly that it is considerably more professional and using really professional arguments in different ones that have been said by colleagues before me, as well as arguments for their protection by one or the other party. It is definitely the same as the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Home Affairs said a few days ago, when this disease occurred, perhaps in the initial stage there were errors of communication that were made and that were corrected. In this sense, even if we go back, it's pointless. The fact is, they were there. I hope that they really have been removed in fullness and that will not manifest itself. However, I would like to address another topic, which is more about communication between us politically, if you will, in another room. That's why I started at another time. So I started by saying that at the moment we've built up a level of communication and it sounds much more professional. Ladies and gentlemen, such episodes are taking place, unfortunately, more and more often with us. Since 2012, it has been the third one. Unfortunately, the measures to be taken under EEC Directive 92/119, which was cited a few days ago and interpreted in different respects, are not pleasant, but they are what the Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Agency took. Details in your questions will be cleared in questions. I can quote art. 4 as regards the final measure of euthanisation, when there is an established disease in the herd itself. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 5, § 1 and the following, in respect of when the measure is taken, where there is no animal found in a herd, but it is in contact with others, in other herds. This is undeniable, such measures have been applied in previous years in such cases. What do I mean by that? In previous episodes Bulgaria has really done very well, veterinary authorities enjoy the respect and expertise of colleagues throughout the European Union and beyond. Moreover, yes, we are a border country with Turkey, where many diseases come from Africa. For some of them, which are new to the country, Bulgaria was the country that made a road map for dealing with this disease in other European countries where... I give immediately an example: lumpy skin disease, there are signed documents about this and meetings that were held at the time. To deal with this and improve the expertise, including the European veterinary authorities, for diseases that first occur in Bulgaria, they need to provide the necessary conditions accordingly. At the moment, as you have said, colleagues, in the questions asked, this episiotry was used so not quite in good faith. I don't blame anyone for this, but like my colleague in the main opposition force said or another was, I'm sorry if I'm wrong: it's not normal in such an episody, with such measures, with the way they should be taken, not being able to limit access to third parties, to these settlements. A measure that is explicitly described and that everything is overexposed to what it can and cannot do. We cannot make every citizen better than the veterinary authorities who have, if you will, the relevant education, practice, professional expertise, in part of the diseases and road map that is already mine. Therefore, the attitude we take is rather to all of us to make the level of debate professional enough, unpopular enough, because the subject is extremely unpleasant, so that these actions can really be carried out in the fastest way to limit the damage minimally. Mr. Abas was right about the examples you gave. With these diseases every day late, unfortunately, brings more and more damage. I was a direct witness to the previous episode, I know what happens every day. It's a scary thing. And if we are now using it for other purposes, this case, which, of course, makes it so that it slows down the process of dealing with it, can be done with much more damage. In this sense, in this case, I appeal for extremely state-of-the-art behaviour, because the opposite means greater damage and much more heartbreaking stories than they have been so far. Let's not use them for that. I'm glad that today's debate is really on another level than it was three, four days ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Dear ministers, in what order will you answer the questions? Minister Porozhanov will be the first to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u160	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, with regard to disinfection and control, Mr. Abase is right. BABBH has its contingent plan in which it operates in similar diseases. It was activated at Watermen and Bones. Then there was no problem that would interfere with the work of veterinarians, and then they were decontaminated by the barns themselves, so to speak. The problem occurred mostly in Sharkovo after escalating the tension and you know for what reasons. Do you think it's too late to set up headquarters? The headquarters have been set up, apparently it will also act for the African plague, where the subject is also very serious. In the African plague, you all know or those who are aware that the clinic is very fast there. There will be no doubt about one thing or another, there is a very rapid result from the point of view of the diseased animal. In the context of compliance measures: the disinfection that is currently being carried out and what we have undertaken as a commitment, you know that not each of these farmers will make disinfection according to the requirements, rules so that, once the quarantine has fallen, there is a clean, disinfected yard after the tests. We made a commitment at the moment, as I said, we'll do it in two steps: the first quick procedure under the Law, then a longer one, so that we can hire a licensed company, there is a special instruction on how disinfecting is carried out, so that we can help these owners clean the courtyards. To Mr. Vigenin, on the subject of extermination, you know, the funeral itself was carried out after a decision of the Mayor's Epizootic Commission, where not in water supply zones and so on. You know, first of all, I'm going on the subject that they've almost been poisoned, that meat was exported, and I don't want to comment. Yesterday I spoke with the mayor of Bolyarovo yes, in one of the buried places there was a collapse due to the big trap, and then it was flooded. I don't want to argue with you if there were bones, if there was anything else. The place itself is flooded with detergent. I don't remember exactly what it was like to repel animals. Undoubtedly the benefits are made under a regulation that is one for animals under selection. The other is for those who are not under selection. We didn't change three times, yes, the initial calculations showed, according to the regulation, somewhere average prices of about 140 BGN. Then, of course, we added costs that were eligible from the point of view of lost benefits so that we could make this compensation secure, but we can't, which calls were made at 300 euros per sheep, 300 euros per such animal and so on. What we are doing right now, even yesterday in Bolyarovo, there were owners from other areas who received it, not to sound somehow, but they thanked for what was done. As far as the strain is concerned, it is currently sent to the laboratory. Chris Declair, with whom we met yesterday, he was from this laboratory, making a commitment to make it difficult to identify the strain, it was not a coincidence that a variety of samples were sent from different animal intestines to make the return of this information as quickly as possible. This is a new disease for the European Union. They are first sent there, if not, to look for another laboratory outside the European Union. There are those in Israel and elsewhere. In Israel, this disease has passed from Africa, from Morocco, I don't know if there has been, but this is a very separate topic. I do not want to comment on.................. that the price in the European part of Turkey of lambs is higher than the price in the Asian part of Turkey. A little higher is the one that is in Bulgaria. Ten times isn't what you know. However, I can't help but mention that when in the talks you know, we resumed a lot of exports, including beef, including when they came to trade two months ago, two and a half months ago. You know what price the Bulgarian sheepmen have declared us offended, which is why the Bulgarian sheep farmers refused to react. In no way, Mr. Vigenin. I think you know me in some way. I wouldn't presume to make suggestions. Yeah, my sentence's a little complicated, I explained it to you. I don't want to read you. I've written it here. What I've said, but in no way suggestion. Yeah, it's complicated that the positive sample is there, not to repeat it to the journalists, I don't know if I said it, but it's in the context that in the settlement I've told you how many positive samples there are in Voden. I'll probably miss something. The protocols and discrepancies in the data will give you an example. In the case of the herd of goats in Sharkovo, which is not yet euthanized, but there the approach cannot be different, it cannot be different. This approach has been confirmed. I'm just glad that Chris Declair came to our headquarters yesterday quite by accident, I had made a commitment to assist in a meeting, even now at 2:00 was the closing point, I missed out. I wanted to hear his closing words, but the approach is one. It is also supported by the authorities of the DJ Santé. So if there's touch, we can't explore how the animals touched each other, but they're going in one place, they're walking together, they're going down the same roads in the village. What I would like to say to Mrs. Takova, you have suggested a deliberate spread, you obviously have something in mind to say such a thing. I would advise you to hand it over to Minister Radev, give it to other authorities, so that if someone is spreading a disease intentionally, we should communicate it very carefully and, of course, at the time when there is information, it should be transmitted in the appropriate order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Minister Radev, come in for your answer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vigenin, you got off on the wrong foot, I think I'm not gonna use the word "liar." This morning I listened to Mr. Stoinev from this tribune how the minister lied. Did you hear me say things like that? I won't do it now. You have every right to say it. It's just my introduction to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u163	I saw you on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u164	He's watching me on TV. And I, like you, as you show them, well that you published the shorthands here are the shorthands. [[Shows them.]] I didn't say anything different than what I heard in there. Maybe a little naiver I thought you were a little pό agreeable to what you heard. But if you read here in red, and Mrs. Ninova was there in the middle, and finally I specifically asked you all who were there: "Still, dear Members of the National Assembly, when we are gathered here, tell us: do you approve of the measures or not?" I do not ask you to do what you then asked or I do not know who. But I can tell you exactly what Mrs. Ninova said. I don't want to quote it, I don't want to get into this movie. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] If you want, I'll read it, but the citizens will read it. You published it, didn't you? And you said to me, Mrs. Nino: "When you obey the order by doing the other things, things will probably become legal. " - That was it, and I used it. And I said, "Okay, whatever you say, this will be done if you see any irregularities. " - I never said that we have full political confidence. We expected you all to say yes because the situation is critical, it is crisis, but I would have lied! Out of respect for you, I'm not going to read the texts. I'm sure you can read them. To respect that, since you asked questions, I'll try briefly. If you want to read, Mrs. Ninova, the shorthand, to read mine, you read your texts then.. They are the same, but perhaps we will focus on different things. I see you're getting ready. And I ask you, can you sum up what we're here for? What do you really suggest? We want to help do what we need to do to continue euthanasia, no vaccination. That's what BABBH has to offer. And I ask, "Is that true?" And Mrs. Nino says, "When you legalize your actions, I quote verbatim. I reply: "Okay, this is what we are doing today, and you are supporting us in what we are proposing. " Cornelia Ninova says I'm talking about the first meeting: do not do anything until there is an order of the two ministers. At the second session again I ask you, as we speak, there is an exhibition inside there were many things told, you questioned us and we reported. Minister Porozhanov said: I want to assure you that the actions have been implemented. And you said, "You will continue there." I ask again: "Euthanasia and we continue the checks...... not to expand....... on page 24 of the minutes of the second sitting, this is the same thing you are looking at. Here, indeed, Mr. Stoynev, you say: "It is your fault that you have not closed the regime. You didn't do your job, then someone else did it. We cannot say that we support action by not knowing what action you will take. I agree, and that's true. Our task there was to tell you everything at the first meeting, that is the second thing that is not clear, and to do it if we have missed something. We've said several times that we've been wrong about communication, maybe not all the documents are the same. I told you what the Ministry says. Don't forget it's not just Mr. Porozhanov, there's an army of officials there. We don't trust them? They've prepared, lawyers have said, "This is what's being done." Here, these are the lyrics, and I asked you then, and now I'm not saying anything else. I just want to increase trust and understanding through you. We don't want anything else. We'll do our job. We're a government, we're not going to work, like you said in the morning here, I'm not going to use any colorful expressions. We're trying to do what's best for our country right now. Let me point out, because you asked the police to kill animals. We don't kill them, Mr. Vigenin. We're just there to help. There are vets. That's what you said: "Nighttime police..." [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] We do, I only stress for clarity, to protect the employees, we only do what I say. Since you said the police department, I'm stating. How did the infection get in? The infected animal to reassure you, besides what colleagues do, because they are veterinarians, I assure you, honourable MPs from all parliamentary groups, all services are working on it. I mentioned it earlier, and now I am just going to stress it is very important, once we are able to deal with the situation, which I have no doubt, to find the reason why it will not surprise us after another day or month. Thank you to Mr. Kolev we are united, yes, to solve the problems. Mr. Acoupe of the DPS, you said: "Sorry, but you from this tribune of rumours are spreading now. I didn't say "Operational Headquarters" where we are, such a thing hasn't come out of us, no passageways close. You said yourself this was from the press. Thank you. I only stress it because there are other rumors. Let the honourable citizens listen to what we say, as you point us there, we make the decisions, we are the state, we are the government, we listen to the information from us and do not succumb to any rumours, we close nothing. You say, "Why politicize the subject?" I can give you many examples of politicizing the subject from the opposition, but I will not. I'm here for something else. Thank you for pointing that out. In the case of politicizing, he's working against the citizens. If you, the MPs, are going, I will not say who should replace me in the Commission and say: find another MP instead of Mr Vigenin. That's what you said earlier. You're the best for the seats. Convince the people! I'm saying this because there was one line to me at first. [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] I guess I didn't say you didn't belong there, you're probably right for there. Do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u165	Mr. Radev, let's not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u166	Just, please, a little more trust! That's what I'd like to stress. And no politicizing! The care is common, this is a crisis you heard and Mrs. Taneva said. Do not put us in the corner, and it is you, the MPs from whom we expect support, at least because I have been your colleague too. We rely on your understanding. We told you everything first. We've come to you twice, this is the third time. Ms. Taskova may have been deliberately infected, I have already said: the services work, including on this hypothesis. I hope it doesn't turn out to be intentional. Finally, I will just say this: I hope that after today's appearance here, after what we have told, we have also highlighted what has not been said so far, and we will get, if not support, at least greater understanding than those who listened to us, and by the citizens who heard us through microphones, because we must do the actions that have been described in the rules I am talking about the Ministry of Interior, and who are assigning us by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[(Replications from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Dragomir Stoynev:]] We're out of procedures, Mr. Stoinev. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's not a statement, please. Let me get this straight. We are listening to the ministers. The lack of quorum in the Chamber is obvious. We are getting information that is probably and should be used for future positions of the parliamentary groups, who had the opportunity to ask questions, we have heard their answers. Let us not turn this meeting into a dialogue, it is not right and it is not right to do this. A procedure was proposed that included only their hearing. I think it can continue and will continue the conversation with other parliamentary funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u168	A personal explanation after a week with other parliamentary funds can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-20.u169	Ms. Nino, we're talking about a completely different procedure. The personal explanation has no place in it. That's my point. I'm sorry. The dialogue will continue. Time has come. I think that all MPs have been informed that parliamentary scrutiny today will not continue, as we have spent time on legislative activity and on hearing the ministers invited by us. Due to the expiry of parliamentary time according to the decision, I am closing the session. The next regular meeting on 25 July 2018, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Thank you. [[PHONE RINGING]]
