ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, before we start with today's program, two messages: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, by its order, has authorised the payment of the formations by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the staff of the military equipment, ammunition, staff weaponry, equipment and equipment for participation in training in a joint training centre in the Republic of Romania for the time from 26 October 2018 to 17 November 2018. The provisions of the Law have been notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 23 October 2018 with entry No 803-09-58 and was made available to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria, the non-military stay in the inland waters and a visit to the port of Burgas on a Romanian Navy vessel from 9 November 2018 to 16 November 2018. The visit of the ship is related to the joint preparation of ships from the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria and ships from the composition of the Permanent Armistice Group of NATO within the framework of the Bulgarian-Romanian Armistice exercise. The notification was received on 23 October 2018 with entry No 803-09-59 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR THE PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES AND THE SELECTION OF A PRESENTANT, A REPRESENTATIVE PRESENTANT AND MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL BUY FOR CONTROL OF SPECIAL RECOGNITIONS. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 8 October 2018. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u2	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, a Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means At its regular meeting held on 4 October 2018, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications examined and discussed a draft decision adopting procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. On 19 December 2013, the National Assembly adopted a decision to elect the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The National Bureau shall be a college body and shall consist of 5 members, including a Chair and a Vice-President, who shall be elected by the National Assembly for a period of 5 years. The term of office of the current National Bureau shall expire on 19 December 2018. 93, para. 7 The National Assembly shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the relevant committee, as well as a procedure for their election by the National Assembly. The draft rules shall be drawn up by the competent Standing Committee. The President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov presented the draft rules, noting that they are adopted on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Art. 34c of the Special Intelligence Means Act. During the discussion, no proposals were made on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 5 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 34c of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. I. Offering candidates for members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and Public Disclosure of Documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds shall be made by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall note if the applicant is also proposed as Chair or Vice-President. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the proceedings of the National Assembly to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications within 10 days of the adoption of these rules. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the applicant's high professional and moral qualities. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: - the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template "Annex 1 to the decision'; - detailed professional CV; - a copy of an identity card and a diploma for completed higher education certified by the applicant; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 34c, para. 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act; - a medical certificate that the person does not suffer from a mental illness. 3. The proposals and the documents referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. 2 shall be published within one working day of their receipt on the website of the National Assembly. 4. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 5. Non-profit legal entities registered for public utility activities, higher schools and scientific organisations may submit opinions to the Commission on the applicant, including issues to be asked. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. The Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications, or by e-mail: kkss@parliament.bg no later than 7 days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be published within one working day after receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. II. The applicant's eligibility check. 1. The Commission shall, at a meeting, verify that all the documents referred to in Section I, i.e. 2 and whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for capacity, citizenship and internship under the Special Intelligence Means Act. The decision on admissions shall be published within one working day on the website of the National Assembly subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Where the Commission finds that the applicant does not meet the requirements for performance and internship under the Special Intelligence Means Act, it shall inform the proposer. New proposals may be made within three working days of notification. 3. Within two working days of publication of the Commission's decision on admission candidates, each candidate shall personally transmit to the Information Security Officer in the Information Security Department. 3.1. a certified copy of a valid permit for access to classified information with a level of 3.2. Security research documents according to art. 148, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (CRC): - written consent of the applicant to conduct research under art. 43, para. Annex 2 to the Decision: - notary certified declaration under art. 74, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, signed and certified to a notary "Annex 4 to the Decision'; - consent in relation to art. 62, para. 9 of the Credit Institutions Act "Annex No 5 to the Decision; - self-initiated level questionnaire for access to classified information - Picture 4x3.5 cm. - 1 piece. 4. Applicants for members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means who do not have a valid security clearance to access classified information at the level of The documents referred to in Section II, p. 3.2. to the applicants are sent to the State Agency of National Security, which conducts a special study within the meaning of the ZSKI within one month. 5. The results of the study shall be published within one day of their entry on the website of the National Assembly. III. Hearing of admission candidates for members of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. 1. The proposals for candidates for members of the National Bureau shall be examined by the Commission within 7 days of receipt of the information by the State Agency. The Commission shall inform the proposer when it finds that the applicant does not comply with the requirements of the law. New proposals may be made within 7 days of notification. The new proposals, the presentation, the public disclosure of documents, the hearing and the selection shall be made in accordance with the order and time limits of those rules. 2. The Commission shall draw up a list of candidates for members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means which shall comply with the requirements of the Special Intelligence Means Act. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 3. The hearing of the admitted candidates shall be held within 7 days of the publication of the list of candidates at an open Commission meeting, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 4. The committee is listening to candidates for their order on the list. 5. The proposer shall present the candidate at an exhibition within two minutes. 6. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and to demonstrate his motivation for taking up the position in an exhibition within 10 minutes for each candidate. 7. Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, may ask questions to the applicant within two minutes, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, higher schools and scientific organisations. 8. Each candidate shall be granted the right to answer within two minutes of a question. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall, within 7 days of the hearing, submit to the National Assembly a summary report to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions on the selection of members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. IV. Election of members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act shall present the report on the hearing. 3. Applicants shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals on their order in the list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The debates on the submitted applications shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. The National Assembly shall elect from the members of the Chair and Vice-President desk. 8. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes during the re-voting as well as in cases where no nominations have been submitted, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. V. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section IV, the elected President, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence means shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property under Annex No 7 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the Republic of the European Union, of the Republic of the European Union, of the Republic of Annexes 1 to 8 are next.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Honourable Members of Parliament, this was the Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. We also met the draft decision which was read by Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate on the item on the agenda. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I am closing the debate and we are going to vote on the proposed Decision.................................................................................................... Vote 136 MPs: 129 against 1, abstention 6. The proposal has been adopted and, therefore, the Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next point of our daily program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. The reports on the first-reading bill will introduce us to the importers. Mr. Dimitrov will brief us on the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. It won't be Mr. Dimitrov, Commissioner will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Hristian Mitev on 9 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 18 October 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. The bill was presented by the MP Emil Dimitrov. Countering economic crimes directly or indirectly has always been linked to measures to deal with the illegal economy in the country. It includes legal activities carried out by legal entities in order to avoid taxes due and to reduce costs, illegal activities or activities carried out by illegal entities and legal economic activities which are not declared to the public authorities due to their specific nature, such as domestic production of excise goods. The three varieties of the hidden economy are closely linked to the official economy and taking adequate measures to limit their negative impact will have a positive impact on the activities of legal entities. The increased control carried out by the NRA and the Customs Agency in the most risky areas, such as VAT and excise revenue, results in particular with regard to unaccounted excise duties and the draining of VAT. A key factor in the sustainability of the results is the achievement of individual and special prevention by imposing effective penalties for acts with a higher degree of public danger, as well as the close interaction of the control bodies with the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed amendment and supplement of art. 234 aims to create a legal opportunity to seek criminal liability of persons producing and distributing illegal excise goods and a mechanism to prevent such illegal production. The crimes under art. 234 are carried out hiddenly, which requires more active search and investigation activities. The perpetrators of business crimes shall benefit from legal gaps and the lack of sufficient operational information in the relevant controlling administration. The prevention of crime implies effective legislation corresponding to modern public relations, control of excise goods is increasingly facing new challenges, which requires that legislation be constantly updated with a view to ensuring that effective measures for state coercion are used. The illegal production of excise goods continues to be an essential part of the country's legal offences, with the production of alcohol and alcoholic beverages usually associated with the distribution of excise goods which are of unclear origin, of unclear production, in bulk, offered and sold in establishments where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is increased, thereby endangering the lives and health of the population. Specialized shares of the Prosecutor's Office and Ministry of Interior showed that the illegal production of cigarettes is also not unknown in Bulgaria. Paying attention only to the damage to the budget caused by the illegal production of excise goods, the problem of technological equipment for this production remains on the sidelines. The regulatory regulations currently in force are not effective enough to control the production, sale and use of alcohol distillation facilities, and such controls are not regulated at all with regard to cigarette production machines. The most risky technology equipment for the production of excise goods is for cigarettes and ethyl alcohol. In view of the traditions of the cigarette industry in the country, Bulgaria is a threat to Europe regarding the supply of illegal factories with machines and qualified labour for the production of cigarettes. Illegal cigarette production is also established in Bulgaria. The production and use of brandy in Bulgaria has traditions greater than those of the production of cigarettes. The domestic alcohol produced for family consumption does not have such a negative impact on the budget as would have illegal sale. In addition to the pots for homemade brandy in Bulgaria are produced and/or sold mini distillation columns with which the volume of distilled alcohol increases significantly. Quite naturally, the large amount of alcohol produced suggests its sale, not domestic consumption. These negative manifestations have a relatively high level of public danger both from the point of view of the fissure and to protect people's lives and health and require the introduction of measures of state coercion. By incriminating illegal holding of items and facilities that are intended or may serve to build facilities for the production of alcohol and tobacco products, the risk of illegal production of excise goods will be reduced. In combination with the proposal to supplement the necessary administrative regulation in the Law on excises and tax warehouses, criminalisation will significantly increase the effectiveness of control of revenue administrations, will have a positive effect on the collection of indirect tax revenues. In order to establish a regulation on how to enter the persons who import, enter the territory of the country, manufacture, sale, supply, supply or recovery/recycling of machines and/or equipment for the production of tobacco products, the provisions of art. 25, 25a and 25b of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. The establishment of a public register at the Ministry of Economy is envisaged and the order and manner of keeping the register will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. Time limits and obligations are provided for persons entered in the register. In this way, the effectiveness of controls carried out against those carrying out these activities will be increased. Attitudes on the presented bill took the MPs Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes in favour and 4 votes abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Hristian Mitev on 9 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Gusheva. A report from the Commission on Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics has come in "The First Voting Report of Draft No 802-01-36." Who's gonna introduce us to the report? [[Noise and lines.]] We will move on to the Foreign Policy Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u6	Why not first the committee's report? And we had to vote access to the room...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u7	Because it's my pass. Because I'm swamped with reports, Mr. Kirilov. I accept the remark. The leading committee is the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has prepared and deposited a Report on the two bills: No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers, and the Bill submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Simeonov and Christian Mitev. We're moving on to the hearing of this report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Thanks for the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would actually like to interrupt reporting only because of the procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. Otherwise, I will ask my colleague Anna Alexandrova to present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u9	Thank you. I understand that there is a motion to vote on admission in this House. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. At its meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Hristian Radev Mitev on 9 October 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor of the Prosecutor General; Mrs. Antoaneta Danova and Mrs. Lada Paunova, Judges in the Criminal College and by the Ministry of Interior Mrs. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who indicated that it aims to introduce into national law the provisions of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union of 29 April 2014 and Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings under a European arrest warrant and on the right to notify a third person of detention and of contact with third persons and consular authorities during the period of detention. The Code of Criminal Procedure complies to a significant extent with the requirements of Directive 2013/48/EU, and changes are proposed for its full introduction, which provide the defendant with general information facilitating his choice of defender, as well as explicitly indicating his right to be free to communicate with his defender, to meet alone with him, to receive advice and other legal assistance, including prior to and during the conduct of the interview and any other procedural action involving the defendant. The rules on prevention of unlawful withdrawal of a motor vehicle (MPS) shall be precisely defined. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195, para. 1 of the Penal Code is created t. 12 for a qualified composition of theft, when the actor with his objective actions has demonstrated the intention to legally embezzle and dispose of the vehicle as his object. There is a legal possibility that preparation for the theft of a vehicle can be punished as an individual crime, such as in art. 346b by the NK is proposed to eliminate the envisaged possibility of imposing the alternative penalty fine of up to 3000 BGN. in the case of unlawful intrusion into foreign vehicles. The Bill provides that the direct and indirect benefit acquired through the crime is to be forfeited for the benefit of the State if it is not subject to return or refund. In cases where it is missing or alienated, it shall be awarded its equivalence. The introduction of the measure is subject to the requirements of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union. The assets secured by way of art. 72 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to confiscate or withdraw property in favour of the State, to be managed by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. With regard to the introduction of the requirements of Directive 2013/48/EU establishing minimum rules on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings for the execution of a European arrest warrant, the rights of persons in detention and accused persons in criminal proceedings and the rights of persons in the proceedings for the execution of a European arrest warrant and those sought under the Law on extradition and the European Arrest Warrant shall be laid down in more detail. A bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Hristian Radev Mitev was presented by Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who pointed out that he introduced a legal opportunity for seeking criminal liability of persons producing and distributing illegal excise goods and created a mechanism for preventing illegal production. The proposed criminalisation of illegal holding of objects and facilities which are intended or may serve to build facilities for the production of alcohol and tobacco products is intended to reduce the risk that unscrupulous persons may contribute to the illegal production of excise goods. Mr. Dimitrov noted that the draft law regulates the order and method of entering the persons who import, enter the territory of the country, manufacture, sell, supply or restore/recycle machinery and/or equipment for the production of tobacco products. The establishment of a public register by the Ministry of Economy is envisaged and the order and manner of keeping the register is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. Obligations shall be introduced for the persons entered in the register and the time limits for their registration, creating a legal opportunity to increase the effectiveness of the controls carried out against the persons carrying out those activities. On behalf of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maria Shishkova expressed her opinion on the principle support of the bills, and according to certain provisions of the Prosecutor's Office have editorial notes. The representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation expressed their opinion on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers, noting that on issues of withdrawal of acquired direct and indirect benefit and their definition have editorial proposals. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov. In response to Mr. Lazarov's question about the temporary derogation from the application of the rights in pre-trial proceedings under art. 63, para. 9 of the PPC and the difference between the words "immediate actions" used in Directive 2014/42 EU and the words "prevention of a situation" recorded in the bill with the importing Council of Ministers, Mr. Stefanov pointed out that the Ministry of Justice is prepared to correct some of the provisions within the period between first and second readings. Mr. Kirilov expressed his support for the bills and expressed his gratitude for the active participation of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Justice during the coordination procedure and working groups before the introduction of the laws. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition and 4 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018 and - with 14 votes "for", 1 voice against........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The report will introduce us to Mr. Petrov, Commissioner. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u12	From the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Yevgeny Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. The Law aims to introduce into national law the provisions of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union and Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings under a European arrest warrant and on the right of notification to a third party in detention and of contact with third persons and consular authorities during the detention period (OB, L 294 of 6 November 2013).). The draft law also proposes the inclusion of texts in the Criminal Code, which are consistent and adequate to the current factual situation and the mechanism for carrying out acts on the unlawful withdrawal of motor vehicles. The proposed amendments and additions should lead to strengthening the rules relating to the withdrawal of assets acquired through criminal activity; introducing an obligation to provide information to the accused facilitating his choice of lawyer, as well as his right to freely communicate with the defender, to meet in private with him, to receive advice and other legal assistance, including prior to and during the course of the interrogation and any other procedural action involving the accused; more effective countering the offences with the object of the unlawful withdrawal of motor vehicles. The repeal of Directive 2014/42/EU is necessary in order to establish clear rules and convergence of Member States' regimes in the area of the freezing and confiscation of criminal property. In relation to the non-transposing of the Violation Procedure Directive No 2016/0705 for failure by the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with the obligations arising from the law of the European Union, our country is invited in accordance with art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to take the necessary measures to implement it. In relation to the requirements of Directive 2014/42/EU, the Criminal Code provides for additions and amendments to be made to the introduction of definitions for direct and indirect benefit; optimization of the withdrawal regime and benefits of criminal offences and others. The reasons state that Directive 2013/48/EU lays down minimum rules on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings for the execution of the European Arrest Warrant pursuant to Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European Arrest Warrant and the procedures for surrender between Member States and the right to notify a third party of detention and of contact with third parties and consular authorities during the period of detention. Directive 2013/48/EU shall contribute to the application of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular to art. 4, 6, 7, 47 and 48 of it, based on art. 3, 5, 6 and 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Under infringement procedure No 2017/0018 for failure by the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with the obligations arising from the law of the European Union is necessary in accordance with art. 258 TFEU (the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), the measures necessary to implement Directive 2013/48/EU. The transitional and final provisions of this bill provide for amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure which are required in relation to the transposition of Directive 2013/48/EU. The importers point out that the full transposition of the Directive requires changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure which provide: to the accused to provide general information facilitating his choice of a defender, as well as to explicitly indicate his right to freely communicate with his defender; where the detainee is a citizen of two or more countries, he may choose the consular authorities of which State is to be notified of his detention and to which he wishes to make contact; provisions are proposed regarding the temporary derogation for the notification of the detention of a child who should not be within the same time limit as those who are detained within 48 hours due to the particular situation of persons under 18 years of age, the derogation is to apply for a period of up to 24 hours and the State Agency for Child Protection and others will be informed without delay. As a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the European Parliament and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A report has also been drawn up by the Foreign Policy Committee. Mrs. Grozdanova, if you'd like to introduce us to your committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. At a meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice." The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code aims to introduce the provisions of the following two directives into national law: - Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union, and - Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings under a European arrest warrant and on the right to notify a third party of detention and of contact with third parties and consular authorities during the period of detention. The bill proposes amendments to the transposition of the two directives and amendments relating to the clarification of the rules on criminal acts subject to unlawful withdrawal of a motor vehicle. Directive 2014/42/EU aims to take more effective action to address the problem of insufficient withdrawal of benefits acquired through criminal activity and to support cross-border cooperation between Member States in this area. In the analysis of the compliance of the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria with the requirements of Directive 2014/42/EU, it is found that it is necessary to undertake specific legislative changes to improve and further develop the arrangements of matter relating to the freezing and withdrawal of funds and benefits of criminal activity. The proposed changes aim at uniformising legislation and validating rules relating to the withdrawal of assets acquired through criminal activity. Directive 2013/48/EU lays down minimum rules on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the execution of a European arrest warrant pursuant to Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002, concerning the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States and the right to notify a third party of detention and of contact with third parties and consular authorities during the detention period. Directive 2013/48/EU helps to implement the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, based on the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Code of Criminal Procedure is largely in line with the requirements of Directive 2013/48/EU, but for its full transposition it is necessary to adopt the additions proposed by the Law in the Criminal Procedure Code, in the Customs Act, in the Ministry of Interior Act, in the Military Police Act and in the State Agency Act. The Law also proposes the inclusion of texts in the Criminal Code, which are consistent and adequate to the current factual situation and the mechanism for carrying out acts on the unlawful withdrawal of motor vehicles. Our country is invited in accordance with art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to take the necessary measures to implement Directive 2014/42/EU and Directive 2013/48/EU. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The President of the Commission Mr. Kanev has been waiting for a long time. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u16	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Hristian Mitev on 9 October 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 24 October 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Daniel Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev. The meeting was attended by Aleksandar Stefanov. The bill was presented by the MP Emil Dimitrov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to introduce both the legal possibility of seeking criminal liability of persons producing and distributing illegal excise goods and the creation of a mechanism for preventing this illegal production. In order to achieve the sustainability of the results, it is necessary to achieve prevention by imposing effective penalties for acts with a higher degree of public danger. Illegal production of excise goods remains an essential part of the violations in the country. By incriminating illegal holding of items and facilities that are intended or may serve to build facilities for the production of alcohol and tobacco products, it is expected to reduce the risk that unscrupulous persons will contribute to the illegal production of excise goods. The amendments to the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act provide for the establishment of a public register in the Ministry of Economy, which will regulate the order and method of entry of persons who export, entry into the territory of the country, production, sale, supply, supply or recycling of machinery and/or tobacco manufacturing facilities. According to the importer, the bill does not provide direct costs for both the State and the interested parties. The significant increase in the effectiveness of the control of revenue administrations can be mentioned as benefits, which will have a positive effect on the collection of indirect tax revenue. With their opinions, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice support the proposals made as an expression of the policy to combat the illegal production and distribution of excise goods, alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Numerous reports suggest admiration for the patience of the President of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to meet another report on the Commission's anti-corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. I was informed that Mr. Naydenov will introduce us to the Report. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its meeting held on 18 October 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. The motives of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code were presented by Deputy Minister Stoyanov. He pointed out that the main purpose of the proposed changes is the introduction into national law of the provisions of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union and Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the proceedings under the European Arrest Warrant and on the right to notify a third person of detention and of contact with third parties and consular authorities during the detention period. It also aims at improving the criminal justice framework with regard to the violation of motor vehicles. Specific texts in the Criminal Code are proposed to take into account the current factual situation and the mechanism for committing acts of unlawful withdrawal of motor vehicles. Thus, the legal framework in this area is further developed and the rules relating to the withdrawal of assets generated by criminal activity are expected to be strengthened; the introduction of the obligation to provide information to the accused, facilitating his choice of lawyer and his right to freely communicate with his lawyer, to meet alone with him, to receive advice and legal assistance. The main direction of the proposals made in the Bill is the implementation of a more effective countering of crimes with the object of illegal withdrawal of motor vehicles. The Bill provides for the possibility to take, in favour of the State, the direct and indirect benefit gained from criminal activity if they are not subject to return and recovery, as well as to the implementation of the requirements of the Directive, an explicit definition of which is a direct benefit and indirect benefit. Another important point in the legislative changes thus made is the secured property under the order of art. 72 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the course of criminal proceedings to be governed by the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. Significant measures and changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the detention regime are also proposed. In cases where there is a danger of criminal proceedings or of a danger to the life and health of third parties, in particular those who have suffered, there shall be an opportunity to refuse the detainee to notify a specific person. That refusal will be given by a reasoned order by a prosecutor and may be appealed before the court, which must deal with the case immediately in closed session. After the presentation of the bill, the President of the Commission Boris Yachev raised the question about the existence of opinions by NGOs on the bill, as well as the position of the Commission on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in the part of the bill concerning their activities. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 4 votes for the Criminal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. These were the reports on the two bills in question. Is there any desire from any of the importers of the second bill to present it? I don't see any requests. I'm opening the debate. We move on to a joint debate on bills amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018, and Draft Law No 854-01-73, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Simeonov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. The debates are open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 802-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018. Vote 117 MPs: 116 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the bill under No 854 01 73, tabled by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Simeonov, Christian Mitev. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. And this proposal is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are moving to the ninth point of our weekly programme: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE BALANCE LAW. Mrs. Stoyanova, please introduce us to the Second Voting Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u20	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Currency Act No 802 01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 September 2018, adopted on the first vote on 26 September 2018. The Act for the Amendment of the Currency Act. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the law: the Act amending and supplementing the Currency Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u21	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of the Law. Vote 109 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u23	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: 100, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u24	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, establishing a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 after the word "Financials" the Minister of Economy is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u25	Are there any statements on the reported text? I can't see. We are going to vote on proposals from the Commission Report for a new § 2. They voted 109 MPs: 101, none, abstention 8. The proposal for a new § 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u26	Under § 2 of the importer, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2 which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 (b) The words "and the persons referred to in Article 1 (b) '. 13, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing 2. A new t. is created. 3: "3." The Minister of Economy or a person authorised by him may: (a) issue written prescriptions to remedy infringements within a period specified by it; (b) apply a compulsory administrative measure sealing of the commercial premises of the persons referred to in art. 13, para. 1 which is not banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the text and version of § 2 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 3. They voted 114 MPs: 96 against 18 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 The measures for the identification of infringements under para. 1.. 3, 5 and 6 shall be composed by officials authorised by the Minister of Finance and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Finance or by officials authorised by the Minister of Finance. Where the infringement has been committed by a person under art. 13, para. 1, the acts for the identification of infringements under para. 4 "6" shall be composed by officials authorised by the Minister of Economy and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Economy or by officials authorised by the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u29	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of Paragraph 3 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 4 in the proposed version. 110 MPs voted: 94 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6, as in para. 2 the words at the date of the are replaced by the date of the statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u31	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of § 4 which becomes § 5 in the Commission Report, the name of the section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" and the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 6 supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: for 102, against 17, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Council of Ministers shall make the regulations governing its application in accordance with it. 2. The information from the register under art. 13, para. 2, the documents on the pending proceedings, as well as the archive held at the Ministry of Finance, shall be transmitted to the Ministry of Economy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We are going to vote on § 6 on the Commission Report, which becomes § 7 and the text of § 7 which becomes § 8 of the Commission Report. 120 MPs voted: 106, 14 abstentions. The proposals have been adopted, and thus the amendment of the Currency Act under Law No 802-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 September 2018, adopted on the first vote on 26 September 2018. Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE FOR CONSERVATION.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u34	There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Financial Market Regulation at the Ministry of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vladimir Savov, the Deputy Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Head of Management, Mrs. Milena Dimitrova, the State Expert in the Financial Market Regulation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Petya Tomova, the Chief Expert in the same Directorate and Mrs. Ivaylo Angelov, the Chief Expert in the Financial Policy Directorate. The draft amending and supplementing the Insurance Code is necessary due to the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products. The Directive repeals Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance mediation by processing and developing the insurance distribution arrangements both at the level of insurance brokerage and at the level of direct insurance supply by the insurers themselves. The proposal to amend and supplement the Insurance Code aims to increase the safeguards for the protection of the interests of insurance users in the conclusion of insurance contracts. The bill also provides for separate changes in relation to the application of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the insurance of liability for the use of motor vehicles and for the control of the obligation to conclude such insurance. In accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/97, the bill provides for an increase in the standard of knowledge and competence available to insurers, insurance intermediaries and their employees who are directly involved in the distribution of insurance products as a guarantee for the provision of a quality distribution service. Basic knowledge and competence requirements classified in three groups according to the nature of insurance products offered: non-life insurance products, life insurance products and investment insurance products shall be introduced. According to the reasons, the aim of the Bill is to ensure the application of an equal level of protection to insurance users and the possibility to benefit from comparable standards, in particular in the field of disclosure. It is expected to encourage equality and equal conditions of competition between the different categories of insurance distributors, regardless of whether they are insurers or insurance intermediaries, respectively whether the intermediaries are bound by an insurance or not. Importers shall aim at applying a proportionate regime to intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity. These intermediaries will meet lower qualification criteria corresponding to the simpler insurance products they offer. The bill should improve the regime for disclosure of information and advice to users of insurance services. It shall also aim to approximate the rules for the dissemination of insurance-based investment products with the requirements of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU to create cross-sectoral equality. The bill also expects the implementation of the minimum size of the insurance amount for compulsory insurance. The liability of vehicles according to the reported inflation growth within the European Union. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Christian Vigenin, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, according to the assessment of the impact of the bill, asked whether the increase in the administrative burden for the insurance business would affect small insurance companies and what percentage of them would be affected. He also asked for an explanation about the difficulties that may arise as a result of the provision of the planned trainings and what measures have been taken at this stage by the institutions. Mr. Kolyo Delev took part in the discussion and asked a member of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Association of Insurance Brokers, who, like Mr. Vigenin, touched on the question of the period of training provided for the insurance companies and brokers and asked him to be reconsidered and extended. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that they have adhered to the requirements of the Directive and, if necessary, adjustments will be available between first and second reading of the Bill. With regard to a question by Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, Member of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, concerning the amendments to the Bill concerning the powers of the Commission for Financial Supervision, Mr. Savov explained that the additional powers given to the Commission are in relation to several aspects.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds with 6 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At a meeting held on 18 October 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The amendment and the Appendix to the Insurance Code shall be proposed in relation to the need to introduce into the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products, Directive (EU) 2016/2341 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision and Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance liability in the use of motor vehicles and on the control of the obligation to conclude such insurance. The legislative proposals concern an increase in the standard of knowledge and competence available to insurers, insurance intermediaries and their employees directly involved in the distribution of insurance products and the applicable standards of business ethics and financial competence; knowledge of relevant legislation and proper assessment of the needs of insurance users on the insurance market. In relation to intermediaries distributing investment insurance products, requirements for the knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of the various investment opportunities offered, the financial risks to which the insured persons are exposed, the pension system and the benefits guaranteed by it. Guarantees shall be introduced against the admission on the market of participants related to persons with poor reputation who may affect the interests of users of insurance services. It has been proposed to further develop the provisions on the management and supervision of insurance products and the regime is relevant to both insurers and insurance intermediaries that develop insurance products. In this way, it is ensured that, even at the stage of developing the insurance product, its creator will determine the persons to whom this product will relate and will assess all the risks that are relevant to them and that the envisaged distribution strategy corresponds to the selected target market. New rules shall be established for the cross-border conduct of the insurance mediation activity and its supervision in relation to which a mechanism for the allocation of powers is also proposed between the supervisory authorities of the home Member State and the Member State of the branch of the insurance intermediary, with a view to much faster and more effective supervision in the interests of users of insurance services in the host Member States. At the same time, conditions for the protection of the national market against practices aimed at circumventing national provisions by insurers or insurance intermediaries shall be established. In view of this, the Bill proposes increasing the minimum insurance amounts of compulsory insurance professional liability of insurance intermediaries of 2 million. $240,000. £400. At 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. For each insurance event of 3 million respectively Three hundred and £600. At 3 million. $700,000. lv. for all events in one year. The bill introduces a number of rules relating to enhanced protection of the rights of consumers of the insurance service in the insurance distribution process. It shall be prohibited for an insurance or insurance intermediary to encourage, through remuneration, persons directly engaged in the distribution of insurance products to recommend certain products to users where distributors are able to recommend other products that are more relevant to the needs and interests of users. Intermediaries shall be obliged to inform the users of insurance services of whether, in their relations with them, they act on behalf of the user or on behalf of the insurer, and the insurers and insurance intermediaries undertake to notify the users of the insurance services whether they provide advice in the distribution of insurance products they carry out. As regards insurance brokers, a general obligation is introduced to provide advice on the basis of fair and personal analysis where there is a request from an insurance user. All insurance distributors are obliged to disclose the nature of the remuneration they receive or their employees in relation to the distribution of the products. In this sense, they should specify whether they act on the basis of a commission due by the insurer on the basis of a fee payable by the insurance service user or on the basis of a combination of remuneration. Insurance distributors are required to carry out checks on the needs and requirements of insurance service users and to offer only insurance products that comply with them. Provisions have also been developed in the field of package sales, explicitly laying down the obligation for the insurance distributor, which offers insurance in a package with another good or service, to offer the possibility of buying the goods or the service on its own. In accordance with the rules of Directive (EU) 2016/97, an obligation to provide a standardised information document for the insurance product when entering into non-life insurance is provided. The document should be a separate document, written in a clear and understandable language, readable and provide a brief explanation of the main characteristics of the insurance product. The draft sets out the assumptions and conditions for the wider use of digital means of communication in the insurance distribution process, ensuring that users of insurance services receive it free of charge and in the traditional way of paper. The provision of investment insurance products has been improved. It is complemented by the obligation to provide information to the insurance service user and, at the same time, restricts insurance distributors to receive fees, commissions or other benefits (called generally incentives) in relation to the dissemination of investment products that may create a conflict of interest and lead to non-compliance with their obligations to act honestly, correctly and professionally in accordance with the interests of the insurance service users. In the field of investment insurance, the arrangements for the appropriate assessment of the insurance product concerned with the purposes and interests of the insurance service user are further developed. The Bill complements the corresponding supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission. With regard to the Communication from the European Commission on an adjustment to take account of the inflation of the minimum amounts provided for in Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance liability in the use of motor vehicles and on the control of the obligation to conclude such insurance, an increase in the minimum amounts of the insurance under compulsory insurance is proposed for drivers of 10 million. lv. 10 million. 420 thousand. lv. For damage to property or property due to bodily injury or death, and 2 million. lv. At 2 million. $100,000. lv. For damage to property. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes "for" and 2 votes "abstentioned" the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. A declaration is followed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Here you are, Mr. Mareshki. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! In a textbook for the ninth grade in the Bulgarian education of biology and health education, awake Bulgarian parents signaled us that in the section of age there is a sentence and it is as follows: At this age there is social and gender maturity, the sexual identity is finally formed............................................................................... Is this what we have lived through, ladies and gentlemen, Bulgarian MPs? In the government, in which there are finally so-called "United Patriarchs"..................................................................................... We are even more scandalized because these days parents and teachers from different schools are signaling us that at this moment, at this moment, when we are debating, there continue to be polls that ask themselves, "Are you a man, are you a woman or something else? I think the masks are starting to fall. Everyone is aware of the double standard of the so-called non-Bulgarian and the United Patriarchs who speak one thing in front of the cameras, but in fact, when they are managers and have to protect the interest of the Bulgarian people, to protect the real family values in which at least I, as a little older, remember my parents have taught me that dolls, nail polish and so on are for the little girls, and boys are dealing with quite other things. We lived to finally find a political formation to become a conductor of gender-ideology in Bulgarian education and hence in Bulgarian life. [[Noise and lines.]] I call once again, as the most active in this activity, the two Deputy Prime Ministers - Karakachanov and Simeonov [[Laughter, noise and lines]] As quickly as possible to bear their political responsibility and resign! Unfortunately, I do not want to dissolve the topics, but while I was preparing to talk to you about these perversions in the Bulgarian schools, in the Bulgarian education system, other publications come out today for example about the repairs related to Minister Karakachanov, how an order of 41 million. lv. Now it's going to swell to 311 million. lv. He just came out in Bulgarian media! Well, for how long? How long are we gonna put up with this scandal? How long will we put up with this obscene attitude towards Bulgarian public life, the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian people? I call on all the strong forces in Parliament to focus and make serious decisions to remove these elements from power, because ultimately the power belongs to the Bulgarian people. It's coming from him! We are all servants of this people who have chosen us. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Angelov. [[The National Representative Veselin Mareshki is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u41	Let's wait for Mr. Mareshki to come out. [[(Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs: Wait! Don't run away!]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! It is very interesting to hear from the stands of the National Assembly when a president of a liberal party, as he was until recently Mr Mareshki, spoke against gender-ideology. Exactly the people, the liberals around the world, who work precisely to impose this ideology around the world?! It is very interesting how until recently the liberal Mareshki has defended such values and suddenly we see him becoming a Bulgarian patriot. What a growth! I am sorry that Mr. Mareshki came out because we, the United Patriarchs, are correct people, we have listened to his declaration in order to get acquainted with the situation in Bulgaria and what the Bulgarian people think. Because only Mr Mareshki has the right, apparently, to speak on behalf of the Bulgarian people in this Parliament. For us, however, it is important that the Istanbul Convention in Bulgaria was stopped. It's a fact! And Mr. Mareshki had nothing to do with it! Because Mr. Mareshki had not even heard that there existed the Istanbul Convention before it was the United Patriarchs to raise this issue and to oppose the replacement of Bulgarian national values. All these problems, which were expressed by him about textbooks, Bulgarian textbooks and the imposition of certain terms and ideology in them, is a fact. And that's been going on for years. We, the United Patriarchs, have reacted. We have made appropriate meetings with the Ministry of Education to remove all such texts and suggestions of young Bulgarians how it is normal to be insane. We've done our job, Mr. Mareshki! What's worse for us is not so much the physical perception of Gender as some people are the soul gendarmes! We see this every week from the National Assembly stands when Mr. Mareshki takes the floor. He quotes media, never facts. He talks about which site what fake news has shared and for him this is the truth and the truth. And if Mr. Mareshki's goal is the fixation in Mr. Karakachanov's personality, it's very bad for him and his party! I had never seen a party in the Bulgarian political space that was fixed on one person and working 24/7 against this person being spit on and masquerading. If Mr. Mareshki, who renounced his election program, which was published on their website for re-arming and for everything else, has decided to completely eliminate his political program and the main and sole purpose of the party.Voljaszki and Mr. Mareshki is the fixation in Mr. Karakachanov, it is an honor and dignity for us. Obviously, we are interfering with circles both in the East and in the West.......................................................................................... Obviously, we are preventing foreign countries from promoting their interests in Bulgaria. People such as Mr. Mareshki or Donchev, who is also from his parliamentary group, defending these anti-national, anti-state, and in the interests of other countries, we will be proud to be attacked and spit on by people like them! Shame and shame! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u42	It was a declaration on behalf of a group. We continue with the next report on the item on the agenda of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. You are welcome to present the Report, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u43	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance The draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products. It is envisaged to increase the standard of knowledge and skills available to insurers, insurance intermediaries, brokers and agents, and their employees directly involved in the distribution of insurance products; the introduction of a new category of intermediaries; the introduction of a new category of insurance intermediaries; the introduction of a new category of insurance distribution intermediaries as ancillary activities; the introduction of new rules on cross-border insurance mediation and supervision; the increase of minimum insurance amounts of professional liability of insurance intermediaries; the introduction of a series of additional safeguards to protect the interests of insurance users; the development of supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission. As regards the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, a change to the definition of reinsurance is proposed, including the provision of reinsurance cover and institutions covered by the Directive. With regard to a Communication from the Commission on an adjustment to take account of the inflation of the minimum amounts provided for in Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on insurance for the use of motor vehicles and on the control of the obligation to conclude such insurance, the minimum insurance for compulsory insurance for liability of motor vehicles shall be updated: - out of 10 million. lv. 10 million. 420 thousand. lv. For damage to property or non-material due to bodily injury or death, and - of $2 million. lv. At 2 million. $100,000. lv. For damage to property. A provision is proposed to allow the National Bureau of Bulgarian Car Insurance to claim the reimbursement of collateral paid by him from the Guarantee Fund's Guarantee Fund from the date of withdrawal of the licence of an insurance company with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria and not from the date of its bankruptcy. In this way, the liquidity of the National Bureau will be guaranteed and the need to raise additional contributions in favour of the National Bureau will be removed, which would further increase the cost of compulsory insurance. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Gechev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the conclusion: we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we will support the changes to the Insurance Code. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to a few questions. First, you must have noted that at the end of 2018, we have been turning into cases EU directives since the beginning of 2016. If we had made these adjustments in time, what happened to the company, Olimpik, and that 200,000 Bulgarians lost their insurance, would not have happened. However, this does not mean in any way that we will not continue to ask the Bulgarian institutions, including the State Agency of National Security and the Prosecutor's Office to check how about 150 million. lv. are exported from Bulgaria, generated by Bulgarian citizens, who have also insured themselves according to data from the regulator of Cyprus................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is someone feeding the illusions that we have forgotten that this money is possible to be recycled and returned to real potential Bulgarian owners, as claimed in investigations conducted by the Cypriot regulator. Therefore, we are currently paying this price because the Bulgarian institutions had not done their job. What is positive about these changes? First, that higher requirements are introduced for the qualification of intermediaries, which will allow insurance buyers to obtain more reliable, more detailed information about the purchase they make to ensure their interests and interests of their families. Secondly, it is very important that the chain of dependents on the remuneration of intermediaries is broken down by which firm they recommended as an insurance company. The practice so far has been to recommend those companies that offer them higher remuneration, that is, not according to the qualities of the insurance itself, but according to the remuneration. That is why this change is extremely important. Next, while here was looking for an answer to the question of who are the real owners of Olympik. Searched everywhere, and most likely they are in Bulgaria, there is now a requirement that all who own 10% shares and more of the insurance companies should be so good to announce their three names, address, bank accounts and what is the origin of the money. Next, it is positive that the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission are being extended. Until now, the apologies that it could not adequately intervene because of its being a branch of an insurance company registered in Cyprus, now this argument will no longer be used as such powers have been given. Last but not least, we agree between first and second reading all Members in Parliament to consider whether to place and what the ceiling of non-financial insurance is, as there is a real risk for the entire insurance sector if this ceiling does not exist as it is at the moment, or if it is extremely low. At the same time, we are obliged to balance the interests of the insured and the insured, so we have very serious work to do to validate these ceilings. In conclusion: the changes in the Insurance Code are moving in the right direction; they are late, which costs tens of millions to Bulgarian citizens, but as the Bulgarian people say: better late than never!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 802-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposal and the bill have been passed. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT WITH REGARD TO THE CHANGE OF NOTES ON 20 SEPTEMBER 2018, TO CHANGE THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAN FOR ECONOMIC, TECHNICAL AND COUNTERPARTY AID REFERRED TO ON 27 JULY 1998. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Angelova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u47	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 5 October 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At a regular meeting held on 18 October 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The purpose of the Agreement amending the Agreement with the United States is the closure by the European Commission of a infringement of European Union law 2008/205. This requires the need to harmonise Bulgarian tax legislation with the requirements of the European directives and decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the area of indirect taxation and in particular to remedy the alleged infringement of European Union law, expressed in a reasoned opinion of the European Commission C (2012) 3917 of 22 June 2012 on infringement proceedings 2008/205. The agreement contains clauses providing for exemption from customs duties and value added tax for import or purchase of goods or services financed by the US Government and the European Commission has accepted that those clauses go beyond the scope of the hypotheses listed in art. 143 and 151 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, in art. 93 of Council Directive 2009/132/EC of 19 October 2009 laying down the scope of art. 143 points (b) and (c) of Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the exemption from value added tax for the final importation of certain goods and in art. 128 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1186/2009 of 16 November 2009 establishing a Community system of customs exemptions. The draft law provides for ratification by the National Assembly of an Agreement, drawn up by a note of the Embassy of the United States of America in Sofia No 204 of 31 August 2018, and by a note-answer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria with ex. No 54-05-1225 of 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Vasileva, you will most likely present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would like to present your attention to you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Financial Market Regulation at the Ministry of Finance. The meeting was attended by Milena Dimitrova, State Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets and the Ministry of Finance, Petya Tomova, Chief Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets in the same Ministry, and Ivaylo Angelov, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Tax Policy. The draft law provides for the ratification by the National Assembly of an Agreement drawn up by a note of the Embassy of the United States of America in Sofia, No 204 of 31 August 2018 and of a note-answer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria with an ex. No 54-05-1225 of 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998. The amendments made to the Agreement concern the need to harmonise the Bulgarian tax legislation with the requirements of the European directives and decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the area of indirect taxation, in particular the removal of that infringement of European Commission law C (2012) 3917 of 22 June 2012 under infringement proceedings 2008/205. In the framework of this infringement, the Commission considers that its obligations under art. Paragraph 10 of the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, given that it has not taken the necessary measures to eliminate the discrepancies between the international obligations undertaken by the United States Agreement and As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 6 votes for the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Agreement, concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. I'm opening the ratification debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement concluded by exchanging notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance signed on 27 July 1998.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u51	Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please put to the vote and at second reading a Draft for ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998, No 802-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u53	Colleagues, I'm putting the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please provide the contents of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u54	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998. A single member. Ratification of the Agreement concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998. Final provision. It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u55	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put the following texts to the vote: - firstly, the name of the Law as presented to the Members of the National Assembly; - secondly, the content of a single member, as presented to the Members of the National Assembly; - third, the name of the division "Concluding provision" as presented to you; - and the latter is the content of a paragraph only according to Mrs. Angelova's report. They voted 84 MPs: 84, with no objection and no abstention. The proposals are accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE CABINATION OF THE MINISTERES OF THE CONVERSION FOR COOPERATION IN DESTROY. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Is there anyone to present the report? Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u56	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation, No 802 02 23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 September 2018. At its meeting held on 10 October 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation No 802-02-23, submitted on 25 September 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Internal Affairs.. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, Ivan Alexandrov, Chief Legal Consult in the Sector.. International Affairs.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The agreement is between the government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the cabinet of the ministers of Ukraine for cooperation in disasters. Deputy Minister Tzipov reported on behalf of the importers that the Agreement lays down the common framework for cooperation in the field of prevention, preparedness and response to disasters, as well as the terms and conditions for voluntary assistance between the Republic of Bulgaria and Ukraine in the event of disasters. The Agreement lays down the forms of cooperation, the procedure for providing voluntary disaster assistance, the procedures for crossing borders and the rules for the stay of rescue teams and/or experts, the procedures for crossing the border of equipment and means of assistance, the use of aircraft, the coordination and management of disaster aid operations, the provision of communications for disaster relief operations, the termination of such operations and others. The competent authorities for the implementation of the Agreement are: for the Republic of Bulgaria the Ministry of Interior and for Ukraine the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. The Agreement provides that it shall be concluded for an indefinite period and shall enter into force from the date of receipt of the last of the written notifications by which the Parties notify each other of the implementation of the national procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement. Any dispute which may arise from the implementation of the Agreement which cannot be resolved through negotiations between the competent authorities of the Parties shall be settled by diplomatic means. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para 1, p. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as it contains provisions concerning the operation of the law. The expenditure related to the implementation of the Agreement shall be at the expense of the approved budget of the Ministry of Interior for the year concerned. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 18 votes for abstentions and non-restraints proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation, No 802-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 September 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. The report by the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation, No 802-02-23, of 25 September 2018. At its regular meeting held on 3 October 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation, No 802-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 September 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. In his arguments, the importer argued that the Agreement lays down the common framework for cooperation in the field of prevention, preparedness and response to disasters, the terms and conditions for voluntary assistance between the Republic of Bulgaria and Ukraine in the event of a disaster on the territory of either of the two countries. The competent authorities of the two countries defined in the Agreement are the Ministry of Interior for the Republic of Bulgaria and the State Emergency Service for Ukraine. The agreement defines the notion of distress. The forms of cooperation, the order for granting disaster assistance, the procedures for crossing the border and the rules for the stay of rescue teams and/or experts, the procedures for crossing the border of equipment and means of assistance, the use of aircraft, coordination and management of disaster aid operations, the provision of communications and others are regulated. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 4 of the Agreement provides that restrictions or prohibitions applicable to the crossing of the border of goods shall not apply to equipment and means of disaster support. In accordance with art. 5, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria international treaties ratified in constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. They have an advantage over those rules of domestic law which contradict them. The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly pursuant to art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is no fixed period of validity of this agreement. It will enter into force from the date of receipt of the last of the written notifications informing each other of the implementation of their national procedures necessary for its entry into force. These types of international agreements are standard and provide for the implementation of the national legislation of the Parties and compliance with the international obligations of both Parties. The costs of implementing the Agreement will be at the expense of the budget of the respective annual budget of the Ministry of Interior. Following the debates held, the Committee on Foreign Policy held a vote on the Bill, which voted by 10 votes for................................................................................................ On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation, No 802-02-23, of 25 September 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I won't. I will put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation, No 802-02-23, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 79 MPs: 73, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Manev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u60	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure for voting on the newly adopted Draft at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u61	Thank you, Mr. Manev. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't understand you, colleagues, and Mr. Manev doesn't understand you. [[Laughs and laughs.]] I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Manev. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the bill, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u62	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation, signed in Sofia on 30 June 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-25.u63	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, I'm going to read it again before I put it to the vote: THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Disaster Cooperation, signed in Sofia on 30 June 2016 Since there are no speeches, I will put two texts to the vote: the first is the name of the Law; the second is the content of a single article of the Bill, as presented to the MPs. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. Dear colleagues, one message: At 11.30 am in the Northern lobby will be presented the certificates of students from the Program................................................................................... Graduates will receive 14 law students from different universities. An exhibition of young artists from Plovdiv with head Milen Siromashki will be opened at the Club of the National Assembly. All MPs are invited to the opening. Parliamentary Control Communication on Friday 26 October 2018: 1. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer five questions: from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva two questions; Mihail Hristov, Theodora Halacheva and Krasimir Yankov; Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov; and Ivan Chenchev. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Dilyan Dimitrov; and Dora Yankova. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Elena Axieva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the organization of the National Assembly adjourned answers by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva.. to a question from the MPs Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question by the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the MPs Stefan Burgeev; and Mikhail Hristov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev is postponed. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Economy Minister Emil Karanikov and Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to a pre-planned commitment to participate in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, which will discuss the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will not participate in the Parliamentary Control meeting. Colleagues, the next regular plenary session shall be on 26 October 2018 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
