ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I have an announcement to make. The National Assembly received a Report from the Interdepartmental Working Group with a permanent action to improve control over water quality, intended for drinking-bit purposes and to prevent a possible risk to the health of the population established by the Order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Health for the conduct of activities for the period from 1 April 2018 to 30 September 2018. The report is presented in implementation of the recommendations of the Temporary Commission Report on the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens adopted by Decision of the National Assembly on 25 October 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Environment and Waters and the Committee on Health, provided by e-mail to the Members of the National Assembly and available on paper in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include in the weekly Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft Decision amending the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning a debate on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations. The representatives of the National Assembly are Desislava Taneva, Bjurhan Abase, Yordan Apostolov and Irena Dimova from 11 October 2018, and I propose to become point two for today's meeting. Please, voting mode. They voted 160 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I will read to you the decision of the Central Election Commission on the declaration of Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev as MP from the 11th Lovech region: In a letter, I went. No НС 02-6 of 10 October 2018, the CEC has received a decision of the National Assembly of 10 October 2018, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are terminated the powers of Nikolay Nankov Nankov as MP from the Eleventh Election Region In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code, the Central Election Commission: HAS DECIDED Announcing Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev, EGN..., as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB, from the Eleventh Election Region of Loveski. The Quaestors, please invite Mr. Vassilev. Colleagues, please stand up for swearing. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Vassilev, repeat after me:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u3	Congratulations! Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018, adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2018. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am making a procedural proposal to allow Mr. Lazar Lazarov to be admitted to the Chamber. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Miljana Pavlova, State Expert at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u5	Please vote on the procedure. They voted 142 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2018. Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1a the following 1. In para. 4 the words "Social assistance" shall be replaced by "social assistance" and its territorial structures "regional social assistance" and "Social assistance". 2. The creation of para. 5. The National Revenue Agency shall provide the Social Assistance Agency and the Social Assistance Officers with the necessary tax and information for the performance of the functions under para. 3 at the written request of the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency or the Directors of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u7	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the creation of a new § 1, supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u10	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Ivan Ivanov, Valeri Zablyanov, Dragomir Stoynev, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Jeleva, Kristina Sidorova, Tsvetan Topchiev, Pencho Milkov and Rumen Georgiev § 2 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u11	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am surprised that the Commission does not support this proposal. It was clear with the introduction of the texts on this amendment to the Social Aid Act for Children. I also told you in the first vote that I am familiar with the problem and the current clumsy procedure for granting personal pension. Along with the clumsy procedure, there was something else that irritates and annoys people. I, as municipal adviser and chairman of the Permanent Committee on Social Policy, tell you that dozens of so-called applications or requests for personal pensions have passed through me. People are not widely aware of the terms and conditions for granting these pensions laid down by the Council of Ministers. Most importantly, people are not aware of the income criterion, in many cases they prepare documents and then it turns out that children have no right because of this criterion. Unfortunately, in the new proposal remains the income criterion and condition for receiving monthly assistance for children with one or two deceased parents, that is, not all children with a deceased parent again, one or two will be able to benefit from the new help. We are raising the issue from the first vote and I am now getting up to motivate our proposal to drop the income criterion, and I am fully aware of the reasons for remaining this criterion in the Bill, and they are that we have adopted, in principle, in our social legislation, the support to be directed towards those in need, that is to say, that is to say, to receive State support. In this case, there is no way to say that all children have the same need for assistance, but it is also clear that these are Bulgarian children placed in a disadvantaged and unfair situation, and society must show care and support to them and, above all, to express our attitude towards them. Moreover, there are already exceptions to this principle, which I have told you, to have such an income criterion, because they are not all of the same needs and this is for monthly aid for people with disabilities. I will remind you that according to data from the National Insurance Institute as of 31 December 2017. Twenty-two thousand. 99 children up to the age of 20 receive hereditary pensions and 2 thousand. 693 children up to the age of 20 receive personal pensions. According to the Unified System for Civil Registration and Administrative Service of the Population at the beginning of 2018, the total number of children up to the age of 20 with one living parent is 29 thousand. 992 children, and 664 are with two deceased parents. We're talking about 5,000. 864 children who, if all receive assistance, will hardly destroy the budget of the state, but the gesture to them will be appreciated by both parents and Bulgarian society. In this difficult environment that exists in our country, raising children is not an easy job, and when one or both parents are gone, it becomes extremely complicated. Therefore, I call, as ugly as this word sounds, to ask everyone to reflect on the question: what would it be if we removed the income criterion? We help these children and the people who raise them, and would this burden so much the budget that a country like Bulgaria could not afford to provide a more worthy life for its children and help those who raise them? I am seriously looking forward to supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Before me, my colleague Gyokov very rightly motivated our proposal, so I will not repeat the reasons. But I want to say what we're going to vote on in a moment. In a moment, we will vote on a proposal from those who care about the income criterion to be dropped if the orphans are with two deceased parents, not just for one. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? We are making a policy in spite of this, because the resource that the state distributes is good to distribute to all vulnerable groups. What are we doing? We're putting one orphan against another. Is that politics, is that justice? I am taking the floor now, not after that in a replica of your proposal, because I hope that in those seconds that you have until the vote, you will think about it and make sure that these funds for children are distributed fairly and not simply a stubborn policy. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Colleagues, let us pay attention to this proposal and avoid the fact that colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria are offering it. See what this is about. In Bulgaria there are children orphans who are just over 30 thousand, without one or two parents. Without two parents, or so-called round orphans, there are 660. A large part of them receive benefits from a little over 22,000. However, the rest is not entitled to inherited pensions, as there is a requirement for internship of the deceased parent. If it is up to 20 years of age 1 year, if it is up to 25 years of age 3 years, up to 30 years of age 5 years. There are children, there are families who don't meet these conditions. Those who do not respond are entitled to the so-called personal pensions. Personal pensions in Bulgaria are currently receiving 2,700 children. However, there is an income criterion that is linked to the guaranteed minimum income, which is extremely reduced. There are 2,900 orphan children who are not entitled to a personal pension, that is, they are not entitled to a survivor's pension, they are not entitled to a personal one. Now, with this new help in the Children's Family Aid Act, we allow those who are not entitled to an inheritance pension to receive such assistance with money from the state budget. It has nothing to do with the insurance contribution. I mean, it's a support system. Since it is in the system of the support, Mr. Gokov said just now that the main principle is to help those with the lowest incomes, so by definition there is an income criterion in the Family Aid Act for children. But look how many exceptions there are, ladies and gentlemen. For monthly child support, there are three exceptions. Monthly benefits for children with one living parent are the so-called child benefits. When they're with one living parent, they don't have an income criterion. And now for the new help with one living parent, we're putting in an income criterion for the famous 4 million! Think about what this is about. One more help for a month's support for a child placed in a family of relatives, relatives, or a foster family. Once again, there is no income criterion for them. Again, there is no income criterion for monthly support for a child with permanent disabilities, i.e. a disabled child placed in a family of relatives or in a foster family. For a child without one living parent, there is no income criterion for monthly benefits. In the case of one-off aid, let's see, this is all in the same law, adoptive parents are entitled to one-off aid without an income criterion. One-time birth aid.. again with no income criterion. One-time aid for first-class students - these 250 BGN, which are given at the beginning of the year, for children with permanent disabilities there is no income criterion. For children with one living parent again in the same law, without income criteria are given these 250 BGN when they are enrolled in the first grade in a state/municipal school. With the new help, what do we do? With the new help, we say that for a child with one living parent, there should be an income criterion. True, the income criterion is BGN 450. of a family member, quite tall, was promoted last year or pό last year. A total of 5,600 children are the ones who will be entitled to the new kind of social assistance. Of these, 2,900 are not entitled to personal pensions because of higher income. So what the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy calculates is about 4 million a year. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, notice, in the conciliation procedure, submitted the proposal for this group of children without one living parent, without an income criterion. However, the Ministry of Finance says: the principle in social assistance is that there must be an income criterion in order to help the most vulnerable Bulgarian citizens. Yeah, but we've already made an exception. It is true that exceptions are very often made a rule, but when it comes to orphan children, children without one living parent, we need to think whether to support this proposal or reject it. Next, colleagues from GERB offer for children round orphans "660 who are not entitled to a survivor's pension, no income criterion. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u17	The weather, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u18	This is the big discussion I'm finishing, Madam President. Let us think about how to vote on this proposal. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u19	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although the arguments regarding the removal of the income criterion in this paragraph have been made sufficiently clear at the moment, and I would like to say a few things. If you followed the entire debate on this family assistance for children, which started at the end of last year with a letter from a mother, then it was 2700 or 2800 Bulgarian children who were without one or two parents. That's all. Children of Bulgaria. You have just heard the exceptions that have been made in the Family Aid Act for children, the exceptions in this for family assistance, and ultimately precisely from the actions of each of you in this National Assembly for the simple reason that over the years policies have been made per piece, to support this one or that one, we will find ourselves again in certain discriminatory hypotheses. I want to paraphrase a mother's letter if you have bothered to follow the comments of the parents of orphan children, a Bulgarian teacher who writes in the comments on this help: I am the mother of two orphan children, one of my children is 21 years old and is studying at a higher school. Because it's an adult and because I'm getting an income of 902 BGN, I won't be able to get my children some kind of help because they're wronged by fate because they're left without one parent. Why should we allow this opportunity? Because the aid, notice, will be of no more than 115.. 120 BGN. What does it take to take this step and enable all children deprived of a parent to receive such help without having a lucrative criterion, since there are so many exceptions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Family Aid Act for children, with the exceptions that were said, all family benefits have an income criterion, namely the income of a family member to be equal to or less than 450 BGN. to this year, as the amount of this income criterion is determined each year by the State Budget Act. But in this case, honourable Members, we have a completely different hypothesis. Now, with the amendments to the Family Aid Act for children, we are introducing a new kind of monthly assistance for children whose parents have died and who are not entitled to a survivor's pension. At present, those children who are not entitled to a survivor's pension because the deceased parent does not have the required insurance service have the right to receive a personal pension. Access to this personal pension is also based on an income criterion, and it is a very serious income criterion, namely the income of a family member for the last 12 months to be equal to or lower than the amount of the guaranteed minimum income, which for 2018 is BGN 75. This means that a two-member family is currently entitled to a personal pension if the income of the family is below BGN 150. Now, with the introduction of the new monthly aid, this two-member family will be entitled to this aid if the income is below BGN 900. You can see the difference between BGN 150 and BGN 150. And 900 leva. I believe that the proposal to have a lucrative criterion for this new monthly aid has its legal and life logic. The new type of monthly aid, as well as the personal pension granted at present, is not granted on the basis of the social contribution of the persons, but I would like to stress it on the nature of social payment. Make a difference between pensions that are linked to social benefits and social benefits. The basic principle adopted in social inclusion policy legislation in providing financial support to parents raising children is the application of a lucrative criterion. This is so in order to ensure greater focus on financial resources and maximum efficiency of support for families with children. The aim of this approach is to support persons based on their economic and social status and, after this assessment, to receive social assistance, namely families with lower incomes. With the adoption of this proposal for the granting of a new kind of monthly family assistance to children with deceased parents without the right to a hereditary pension, we will enable about 5600 children to be able to receive financial support, as so far the right to this financial support has only had about 2600 children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? Two lines. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I have listened very carefully to you and I would like to ask you a few questions, although you are not listening to me, but I will ask the questions. They are rather addressed to colleagues as well. Am I to understand, Mrs. Angelova, that with your speech you are giving a signal to the group of the government to vote against the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria................................... to meet the income criterion in the support of orphan children, children without one parent or without two parents? I listened to you carefully, as I told you, you made an account of a family's money, that we almost didn't raise much of the income criterion, that it was enough to raise a child, only I didn't hear you make an account of how much a child's allowance was. For a kid who's going to school, what's the cost? When this family that raises this child, or two or more children, is deprived of one or both parents, then it becomes impossible to prepare it even to start a school, let alone to provide some normal life for that child. You have rightly noticed that it is not a social payment, that is to say that there is an unconditional right to this as a pension, but it is a question of social payment, that is, assistance. I do not see what the problem is when it is not related to any social security rights that we can ensure that any child who is left without a parent can be assisted to the same extent that all other children are supported. I also thank you for the account you made that 5600 children will already receive such assistance, but where are the remaining 2,000 and how many children who will not receive such assistance? I think that as governors you should take this very seriously, change your mind and support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the word Mrs. Klisurska for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u26	My question is to Mrs. Angelova and he is related to art. 92 of the Social Security Code. Dear Mrs. Angelova, what kind of pension is the one regulated in art. 92? This is also about assistance, and when you talk about the fact that this is about assistance, please remember that there are pensions that are not dependent on the insurance system. The next thing is somehow cynical is your proposal, I apologize, to propose that the income criterion be dropped for orphan children who are orphans without two parents. And notice at the National Statistical Institute right now, the information about orphan children is 664 children, of whom, ladies and gentlemen, 95% of them receive a survivor's pension. What 5% are we talking about? For some 1000.000 BGN. Are we going to solve the matter for two or three orphans when the income criterion is dropped? Let's settle this cardinally for all those who are deprived of a survivor's pension. Not here to debate about things that do not require much financial resources, but, as we understand from the Ministry, it is provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Third line? I can't see. Dear Mrs. Naydenova, the coat? You won't use it. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u28	My fellow Members, I would like to repeat once again what this is about. All children left without one or two parents under the Social Security Code shall be entitled to a survivor's pension. They receive a survivor's pension in the amounts set out in this Code and dependent on the amount of salary, years of service, the benefits that the parent in question has paid until the time of his death. What we are looking at right now are orphan children left without one or two parents whose deceased parent has not had five years of internship and has failed in these years to raise enough contributions so that his child can receive a survivor's pension under the Code. For this reason, we are currently trying through social assistance to solve these children's problem. So far they have been granted social assistance, but the size, the threshold to be achieved as income, was extremely low. Now we say: yes, we want to support those children who are left without a parent, these are usually young parents, because there has been no time for them to accumulate this for years' service, and we are helping them again, I say, through social assistance. Social assistance, such as any other social assistance to be such, must ultimately respond to the supported person or the supported family not having enough income and opportunities only to cope. This is the logic of all the social benefits that we have here with you in different years and laws have voted. This is also the logic of this social aid. Therefore, I believe that there should be an income criterion, because the income criterion means that the remaining parent, one parent, does not have enough funds. We have cases that I don't want to quote right now here, but you all know them of orphan children whose parents are millionaires. Do we have to give them social help, too, to draw from that social fund that we claim to be the poorest? We hang it for those who can't handle winter heating, we don't just hang out for orphan children. We therefore propose that there should be no income criterion only for the round orphans. "Those who do not have parents at all, are left without parents and have no right to a survivor's pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u29	Four million.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u30	I hear from the left that I'm being replicated, that it's four million. I'm not speaking as a financier right now. Four million is not a sum that will cut the budget, or we will make budget savings. I'm making sense. I am speaking in fairness because it is not fair for the same help to receive children of parents who have the opportunities of property, factories, incomes and children of parents who are not able to be viewed. Whenever we accept any text by law in this Chamber, we must seek justice. We have to look for the logic of things, because if we accept only by populist considerations and are led solely by budget spending, we will be making, as we have so far, unfortunately, many decisions that then turn out to be wrong and create social tensions in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The line is Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I accept the arguments that support should be targeted, targeted, to help those who need it most. Just tell me: in this same law, a child without one parent is entitled to the so-called monthly allowance without an income criterion. In the same law, a disabled child is entitled to monthly allowances without an income criterion. Once we have made an exception in the support and it for large groups for those without one parent, for those with disabilities, for those who are accommodated in families of relatives, acquaintances or foster families, on a one-time basis, not to list all exceptions. We've made exceptions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u33	It's a one-time thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u34	No. Three aids are monthly, which I listed just a few months ago, the monthly benefits of an orphan child. An orphan child without one parent has the right to receive without the income criterion so-called monthly................................................................................................. there or two, three kids more. The same child will not have this opportunity to receive because it has to have an income criterion. That's what I don't understand. The other arguments I understand. I rule out fiscal arguments, they're important.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u35	Let's get this in line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u36	They're important. Let's get to the point, do we want to help these kids, or don't we? It's not enough, it's not gonna be $4 million. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] I understand your arguments, but in any case, we need to think about seeking justice in equal rights. The same children with one parent are entitled to a monthly allowance without an income criterion, the exact same children in the same law when receiving this new monthly aid must have an income criterion. That's what you're gonna tell me. How is this happening?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u37	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mr. Gokov and after him Mrs. Klisurska. I'm sorry, but that's the three lines. Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you are not right at all in what you said. I will not repeat Dr. Ademov, who told you about the exceptions, I will only pay attention to you that you do not understand the principle. You decided to do one good thing. [[Heckling]] I am talking about the principle that you mention that there should be an income criterion for social assistance. It is clear, although the exceptions that Dr. Ademov told you are sufficient argument that we can make another exception and, as you say, to turn the exceptions into a rule. However, you do not understand one thing in principle, that these children still had the right to such assistance, but it went through the insurance system. These children applied for personal assistance and the procedure was extremely clumsy. Now you have decided to do something good as a ruling majority, as the Council of Ministers tabled this bill and suddenly you remain the other annoying thing for the people. Why are you doing this? It's $4 million, it's not $43 million. You must be making some kind of analogy with 4 and 43. In this case, we expect you to make a cardinal decision to solve the problem with these children. I don't know what you need to be told from now on to change your attitude towards people. We will not delight anyone with 4 million savings for the budget, nor the Bulgarian people, that we have saved him some money. Understand that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I'm confused already. Mrs. Klisurska gave in to Mrs. Siderova, she gave in to Mr. Jablyanov. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I will not dwell on the internal contradictions in the Law, which my colleagues have examined thoroughly. I'm going to try to explain the other logic, because you explained the logic, but besides that, there's another logic. In the history of our society, orphans are repeatedly supported. Orphans are supported, not orphans who have material opportunities and who have no material capacity. The category is a social category for people in society who have suffered or are in a state of other damage, not only material. They have suffered personal misfortune by depriving themselves of one or two parents. This personal misfortune has affected their life course. And this solidarity that we are talking about is not just financial parameters. I understand your tendency to talk only about this situation. This is understandable from your professional engagements and qualifications, but there are other forms of solidarity in the Bulgarian society. The National Assembly is therefore a National Assembly, not just a Assembly, to show such solidarity. Because, yes, you mentioned there are children with millionaire parents, but as we all know, some of these millionaire parents died in tragic circumstances. Children wear their parents' brand and it is not bad for the state to demonstrate with this small amount its equal attitude towards everyone, because they will know that the Bulgarian state is behind them, whether they have factories, acres or means of transport. When the Bulgarian state demonstrates that it is behind everyone, then there is a sense of solidarity, not when we count and calculate people's incomes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u42	Mr. Gokov, I understand her very well, you don't understand logic. The logic of social assistance is what I said in my speech. The fact that we have allowed exceptions on one occasion or another gives us no reason to turn the exceptions into a rule, as Mr. Ademov pleads in his reply. Therefore, exceptions should not be allowed, because any exception made for any other reason beyond the basic logic draws the opportunity to ask for more and more and more and more. [[Heckling]] It's not just money, it's exceptions. Then there is no point in making laws only for exceptions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u43	That's no exception.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u44	Mr. Zablyanov, please, I will now answer your line. I fully understand your position. You're trying to say that with some money the state can solve psychologically and other problems of a child who lost a parent. Money doesn't solve that! If this child needs such assistance, there are other institutions and other options that the state offers as services to solve this problem. Once again, it comes down to money because you say, " What difference does it make if the remaining parent is a millionaire or is he poor?It is important when we confuse the total social cost that sets aside the state. Here I mean, over a billion and 300 million. lv. They are given annually for various types of social benefits. We confuse this fund, and when we mix it up, we have to give it a real target to those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since this topic has sparked a serious debate in plenary, I would suggest that we postpone the point by about an hour so that we can make further concerted discussions with the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister of the country. We will be able to actually participate more actively and we will be able to make the right decision to reduce tensions if there is an opportunity to make this consensus, which will unite us all for a fair decision. If you will allow us to postpone this text by one hour, because we are currently in contact with both the Prime Minister and the Finance Ministry. So we will see what would violate and whether we can provide this resource to solve a topic that we think is extremely important. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Replices outside the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u47	Let's just postpone it, we're not voting on it. We will continue to vote on the other points, Dr. Ademov, so please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u48	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1, t. 2 words are replaced by pre-school education and compulsory pre-school training. 2. In para. 12 A comma shall be placed at the end and added to the point where the suspension for the third and sixth months is for the month in which the period for which the aid is granted expires, it may be granted again not earlier than one year of the month following the month of the suspension.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u49	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3, which shall become § 4. 110 MPs voted: 109 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u50	Under § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Zheleva, Kristina Sidorova and Pencho Milkov: In § 4, in the creations art. 8f, para. 4 words of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age, shall be replaced by training, but not later than 26 years of age. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: In § 4, in the text of the created art. The following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, a new comma shall be placed in the main text after the word 2. paragraphs 2 and 3 fall; 3 paras 4 and 5 become paras 4 and 5 respectively. 2 and 3; Paragraph 6 shall become para. 4 as in t. 2 dropped out; 5 paragraph 7 becomes para. 5, and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Paragraphs 8 and 9 shall become paragraphs 8 and 9 respectively. 6 and 7; 7 paragraph 10 becomes para. 8, and in it the words "al." The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in conjunction The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 8f: Art. 8f. (1) Monthly benefits to a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent shall be granted to the other parent or guardian who raises the child and lives permanently in the country, provided that the child: 1. shall not receive a survivor's pension under Article 1. 82, para. 1 of the Social Security Code; 2. is not accommodated for farming outside the family according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; 3. regularly attend preparatory groups in kindergartens or preparatory groups in schools for compulsory pre-school education of children, unless this is impossible due to its health; 4. until graduating from secondary school, but not more than 20 years old, regularly attends school, unless it is impossible due to its health condition; 5. all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations are made according to its age and health; 6. Lives in the country all the time. (2) Monthly assistance under para. 1 shall be granted to the other parent or guardian/producer if the average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months is lower or equal to the income under art. 4. (3) For children with two deceased parents the monthly assistance under para. 1 is granted regardless of the income of the family. (4) When the aid is granted to the guardian/producer of the child, in the assessment of the existence of the condition under para. 2 shall be taken into account the income of the family of the guardian and of the child for whom the assistance is requested. (5) Monthly assistance under para. 1 is provided until the age of 18 years by the child, and if he is studying at the end of secondary schooling, but not more than 20 years old. (6) Under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 6 months of aid is also provided for a child who has graduated from secondary school before the age of 18. (7) Under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 monthly assistance shall be provided to the families of relatives and/or relatives where a child is accommodated in accordance with art. 26 of the Child Protection Act if: 1. the family does not receive monthly support in order to raise the child in families of relatives or relatives under the Child Protection Act; 2. the average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months is lower or equal to the income under art. 4 except when the child is with two deceased parents. (8) In the cases under para. 7 The other parent or guardian shall not be entitled to the monthly assistance under para. 1. (9) The amount of monthly aid under para. 1 is determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which cannot be less than the previous year. (10) Monthly assistance under para. 1 shall be terminated before the expiry of the period for which it has been granted, if it is withdrawn and/or found not to comply with the conditions for granting it, and: 1. when adopting the child; 2. in the case of placement of the child outside the family according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; 3. in case of change of the guardian of the child; 4. when the child for whom assistance is received becomes a parent. (11) In the cases referred to in para. 10, t. Article 4 shall apply. 7, para. 13. (12) Monthly assistance under para. 1 cannot be obtained together with the personal pension of a child under art. 92 of the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u51	Colleagues, you have a say in this. You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the group that proposed delaying the viewing under § 2 did not remain until the end of the debate in the Chamber, because in the current paragraph there are also situations and moments that need to be addressed, moments that enter into discriminatory hypotheses. Our proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is in § 4 in the created art. 8f, para. 4 years of age, but not more than 20 years of age, shall be replaced by the age of training, but not later than 26 years of age. Why is it important to accept this proposal as we propose it? If we look at art. 82, para. 1 of the Social Security Code, orphan children who receive a survivor's pension receive one until the age of 26 if they study. In the same hypothesis are children who receive a personal pension. It's vitrified in art. 92 of the Social Security Code. The age is 26 and now, at the moment, notice what a discriminatory hypothesis we are entering. If we look at the regulation on the allocation of pensions, the regulatory act relating to the Social Security Code, at the moment only the personal pensions granted by the end of the year, continue to operate and operate in other than this hypothesis, without the right to a survivor's pension. But those who receive a personal pension now and she is granted to them, continue to receive it, and will receive it by the age of 26 the child. Now, with this family assistance that we are reformating into the Children's Family Aid Act, we are introducing the 20-year-olds. Imagine: parents today receive a personal pension, their child is 18 years old, which help will they prefer, and imagine the next discriminatory cases? Think seriously about this proposal and I hope it will be accepted. I am convinced that in a moment Mrs. Angelova will take a reply or statement on this proposal and will say that in the regulations of the Law on Family Aid for Children it is visualized the age of the children to be up to 20 years. This is a restrictive moment, and it applies to everyone, and that if we allow the increase in age, we will find ourselves in a different way. Yes, but here we are talking about the hypothesis of orphan children deprived of a hereditary pension and those who are not entitled to receive personal. The exceptions lead to such discriminatory hypotheses, but I think the fairer is to increase age from 20 to 26 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. The line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u54	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will be brief. I understood the idea, I can guess what it would be like, but this is an incompetently written text by colleagues: the words "high school" but not more than 20 years old are replaced by "if you study, but not more than 26 years old. But no more than 26 years! Study what, colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]] Sports dance school?! Studying some other school, anything else to learn?! Sorry, there are colleagues who are specialists in education, that term means everything. Incompetently written proposal: to study. And if the middle school is specific enough and clear enough, then this is going to study, I don't know, maybe it's some other teaching. We're not talking about education. You remove the requirement to complete some education, some degree.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u56	Mr. Lazarov, open up. 82, para. 1 of the Social Security Code and see how the text is inserted. That's where we come from. The exact same text: if he studies until the age of 26. Check your Social Security Code art. 82, para. 1 and then go out into the stands and speak of incompetence. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the proposal of our fellow Members, which we are now debating, the new monthly assistance for children whose parents have died, without the right to a survivor's pension, to receive until the completion of the training, but no later than 26 years of age, there is a weakness. What kind of kids are we talking about at 26? According to the Bulgarian legislation, according to the Child Protection Act, any person under 18 years of age is a child. 26 years old, what kind of kids? All family aid granted under the Children's Family Aid Act is up to 18 years old. They're for kids. They're not for young people. It is insulting for a young man at the age of 25 to tell him.................................................................................................. Most of them give birth, have families, and you will grant them the right to receive monthly child support. You do not draw a parallel between social aid and pension. Yes, the inherited pensions received under the Social Security Code are obtained until higher education is completed if the young man is studying until the age of 26, but it is a pension related to a social security law, that is, the deceased parent has had an internship. The survivor's pension is calculated as a percentage of the deceased's personal pension and can therefore be obtained. The legislator considered that it could be obtained by the age of 26. We are currently introducing a new kind of monthly support for children. It's social help. There are no benefits anywhere in the Family Aid Act until the age of 26. It's the Children's Family Aid Act. An extremely weak proposal, plus what my colleague Lazarov said. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Angelova, just a moment ago you tried to disprove us for our first proposal. It turns out that we may be right because Mr. Tsvetanov personally stopped the vote so that you could reflect on our proposal. I really hope you'll reconsider. You yourself said: Law on aid, about support, yes, about children. A family with a child, and having difficulty continuing its higher education, is still a child for this family and needs support. We're talking about state support. Will she be 20 years old, what's the difference, and 26? He's still not a child at 20 years old. She could still have children at 20 years old. [[Noise and lines.]] When it has a child, these benefits will be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Next line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you were incomplete in your speech not only in the Bulgarian legislation, it is written in the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child of the United Nations that a child is a person of up to 18 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, I am amazed by your line because you want to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation a new definition of children, namely to raise the border over the age of 18. Dear colleagues from the Social Commission, from the BSP parliamentary group who have signed this proposal, you have been MPs for a year and a half and are members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Read, learn to distinguish between the Code of Social Security, pension, contribution and social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, as there will be changes in the texts, I suggest that we stop the discussion of this bill for a little while, wait for the decision. During this time, we will consider item two of today's agenda and continue with the Bill we have just seen. The next item is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 19 SEPTEMBER 2017 WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSURE OF THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES LIGHTING AND GEORGI GEOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOOD AND GREEN ROMAN ADVANTAGE TO ESTABLISH A REGION IN THE RECOGNITIONS. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Taneva. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the establishment of order in the land relations (GW, SG No. 77, 2017), No 854-02-54, submitted by the MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs on 11 October 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held an extraordinary meeting on 11 October 2018, discussing the draft decision cited. The meeting was attended by: Petar Vutov, Director of the Department of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova, Head of the Department of the same Directorate. The project was presented by the MP Desislava Taneva. The project was submitted in connection with a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, held on 10 October 2018, where the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry presented a draft law on land relations and the conservation of agricultural land. The draft was developed in implementation of a decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017, with the aim of ensuring the protection of agricultural land as national wealth and establishing the basis for sustainable development of agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is entrusted: 1. to submit a report to the National Assembly by 31 December 2017 which includes an analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use and a strategy for the management and development of land ownership in Bulgaria; 2. within 10 months of the adoption of the report under point 2. 1 and after the necessary public discussion to submit to the National Assembly a draft legislation governing public relations in land use related to the ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. During the discussion on the main provisions of the Draft Law, presented at the meeting held on 10 October, the MPs reported the large volume of work done, but found that the scope of the presented bill was significantly different from the scope set out in the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017. It was stressed that there were no texts governing ownership of agricultural land as a way of acquisition, disposal and management, especially in the light of the criminal procedure against our country. In this regard, the restrictions eligible for the European Commission regarding the acquisition of agricultural land ownership set out in the Minister's report should be found in this project. The bill should also regulate all forms of land relations, including rentals. Furthermore, the rules relating to the conservation of agricultural property should also be updated, given the completely changed model of public relations and the inability to apply existing standards. In conclusion, at the meeting of 10 October, the MPs agreed to extend the period within which the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should submit a draft single legislative act in line with the comments received. In this regard, the draft decision proposes that the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 should be amended and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should submit to the Council by 28 February 2019 a draft of a single legislation governing public relations in land use, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. Following the debates, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 20 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision amending the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations, with reasons to it, No 854-02-54, submitted by the National Representative Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Please read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u68	Project! DECISION amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questioning of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the establishment of order in the land relations, p. 77/2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and based on its sovereign right to guarantee the protection of agricultural land as basic national wealth HAS DECIDED In the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questioning of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to establish order in the land relations, in II the words from 10 months after the adoption of the report under point I, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, after the necessary public consultation to submit to the National Assembly. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be replaced by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry by 28 February 2019 after the necessary public consultation to submit to the Council of Ministers. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 12 October and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I am voting on the just-read draft decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, recess till 10:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u70	Colleagues, we're ready to move on. We'll go back to § 2. Mr. Tsvetanov wanted a statement before that. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for understanding the delay of the point and for carrying out additional consultations, but after talks that we have held together with the United Patriarchs, with the experts from the Social Ministry and with the personal commitments of Prime Minister Borisov and Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, we will support the text with which it will be possible to introduce assistance for every child who is an orphan, and thus we will be able to actually bind him to those children who do not have a survivor's pension from the deceased parents. As far as we have heard from the political consultations that we have made, both BSP and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms I can say that this text will also be supported by the parliamentary majority of the "United Patriarchs" and by GERB. Thank you for understanding and for finding this consensus, which can be for all children who have died parents and will be able to benefit from this additional assistance, which is being introduced, I repeat, if they do not receive inherited pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, I am doing a procedure to extend working hours to the vote on the bill we are currently working on. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Dr. Ademov. Let's continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u73	We continue with the proposals under § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u74	Let's go back to § 2, which we postponed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u75	Paragraph 2...................................................................................... 4 after the words "al." 3, p. 1 shall be Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Georgi Gokov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 3, but after what we have just heard, we must vote and this paragraph should be dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u76	The Commission supports the proposal § 2 to be rejected. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u77	Colleagues, the proposal we are voting on right now is in the context of what Mr. Tsvetanov just said. Abandoning the Commission's proposal for § 2, this means that the new type of monthly aid will be obtained without an income criterion. My request is that you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u78	They voted 128 MPs: 128, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Paragraph 3 is voted, we're going to § 4. Procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u79	Thank you for your understanding, Madam President. I would like in the form of a procedure in the manner of conduct to thank Mr. Tsvetanov and the entire parliamentary group of GERB and the "United patriots" for supporting our proposal. Hopefully we'll work that way in the future. Listen to our suggestions. You will not fail. [[Radio and laughter in GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Moving on to § 4. Are there any more speeches on this paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u81	Since § 3 is voted, the discussion continues under § 4 if there are other speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u82	There's a statement from Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand Mrs. Angelova's arguments that this is about family aid for children. I understand that in all documents, including, as mentioned in the United Nations documents, there is a certain age for children. This is about something else. Let's not formalize ourselves with the notion of children. It's about certain people who were once wronged by fate to remain orphans. If one of the parents of these children or both have made contributions, they will receive quite normal inheritance pensions by the age of 26. Once these children were orphans, a second time not their fault and not their parents' fault were not made these contributions. Why should these children not say children should be deprived of the opportunity to receive their inheritance or social benefits that you are talking about until the age of 26?! I don't see the logic. We're introducing some kind of difference this time of age. It used to be a material cent. Thank you for letting the material censure drop. Now let's drop the age limit to put the children at the same level, regardless of whether they're...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u84	By 30, to 40, maybe 50 years...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u85	Madam President, would you please make a note of those who are calling from their seats?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u86	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u87	There is a way to deal with it. Logic requires those who are left without parents and have the possibility that parents have imported to receive a survivor's pension by the age of 26. Similarly, those left without parents and the parent had no social contribution to the system to receive this help for up to 26 years. Otherwise, we make a difference between one and the other again, without making any sense. By the age of 18 he received aid, at the age of 18 or at the age of 20, as written in the text, although he continued his studies, we did not give him the opportunity to receive this money. This is about nothing but social sensitivity and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Dimitrov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I supported the proposal made by the President of the parliamentary group. It was reasonable. I'm glad we accepted that. With regard to the years, I will not be able to vote because I am in conflict of interest. My daddy, a bright memory, died, I'm Mom's child. It would appear that I am voting on a law for myself. Let's not overdo it, please, over the years. This criterion is sufficient. Even when you're late studying, you're supposed to have graduated when you're 26. Some study later, but it's either a government contract or we pay ourselves. Let's not overdo it. Please, I'm in a conflict of interest. [[Elevator bell dings]] and I will not vote on the proposal to increase age. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u90	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I understand your emotional statement, your wish, but I will repeat that we are currently examining the Family Aid Act for children. It is about children, and according to the Bulgarian legislation each person under 18 is held as a child. According to the Bulgarian legislation, if they continue to study higher education, those with low incomes who are orphans, they are assisted again by the state through scholarships. There's a possibility. With regard to survivor's pension and social benefits, you are confusing the notions. If the deceased parent has provided himself, if he has made a contribution, then this child is entitled to a survivor's pension. It's state-owned social security funds. We are currently commenting on the Family Aid Act for children. All aid under the Family Aid Act for children is granted from the state budget and they are not based on social contributions. These are aids that are in the state budget. They are not based on social contributions, they are not based on insurance in the budget of state social security, so this proposal of your colleagues is not logical, it does not make any sense. And I said it's extremely weak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u92	Third line, come in, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, if the arguments on the previous proposal for dropping the income criterion were valid and serious, the arguments here do not stand. Why? First of all, because it's about the Children's Family Aid Act. It was just said that children are up to 18 years old, until 26 years old they are no longer children. They can already have employment relationships, they can be in marital relationships, they can have incomes of any nature. If they're students, it was just said they could get scholarships. Children orphans get scholarships. My request is that we do not support this proposal because we will make another exception. It is true that there may be orphans who will not be in employment will be unemployed. Then, however, they enter the other support system. To introduce this new aid from 18 to 26 years is, in my opinion, untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u94	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 123 MPs: 40, against 49, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 32, against 54, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u95	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in relation to the amendments adopted, which we voted on just now, a new version of art. 8th of the Family Aid Act for Children, we adopted without an income criterion, the new § 5 must have a new version in relation to the adopted proposals. That's why I suggest we read, and we've just been in the task force to clarify the texts. We are talking about references and the removal of texts which are incompatible with the proposal that has just been adopted. I'm reading the proposal for the new version: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 8f: Art. 8f. (1) Monthly benefits to a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent shall be granted to the other parent or guardian who raises the child and lives permanently in the country, provided that the child: 1. shall not receive a survivor's pension under Article 1. 82, para. 1 of the Social Security Code; 2. is not accommodated for farming outside the family according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; 3. regularly attend preparatory groups in kindergartens or preparatory groups in schools for compulsory pre-school education of children, unless this is impossible due to its health; 4. until graduating from secondary school, but not more than 20 years old, regularly attends school, unless it is impossible due to its health condition; 5. all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations are made according to its age and health; 6. Lives in the country all the time. (2) Monthly assistance under para. 1 shall be granted to the other parent or guardian, regardless of the income of the family and of the child. (3) The monthly assistance under para. 1 is provided until the age of 18 years by the child, and if he is studying at the end of secondary schooling, but not more than 20 years old. (4) Under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 6 months of aid is also provided for a child who has graduated from secondary school before the age of 18. (5) Under the conditions of para. 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 monthly assistance shall be provided to the families of relatives and/or relatives where the child is accommodated in accordance with art. 26 of the Child Protection Act, in case the family does not receive monthly support in order to raise the child in families of relatives or relatives under the Child Protection Act; (6) In the cases under para. 5 The other parent or guardian shall not be entitled to the monthly assistance under para. 1. (7) The amount of monthly aid under para. 1 is determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which cannot be less than the previous year. (8) Monthly assistance under para. 1 shall be terminated before the expiry of the period for which it has been granted, if it is withdrawn and/or found not to comply with the conditions for granting it, and: 1. when adopting the child; 2. in the case of placement of the child outside the family according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; 3. in case of change of the guardian of the child; 4. when the child for whom assistance is received becomes a parent. (9) In the cases under para. 8, p. Article 4 shall apply. 7, para. 13. (10) Monthly assistance under para. 1 cannot be obtained together with the personal pension of a child under art. 92 of the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u96	Statements? I can't see. I'm putting in the edit that Dr. Ademov just read on § 4, which becomes § 5. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u97	In relation to the new proposals, the paragraphs will be renumbered. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 is finally a comma and the parent, guardian or guardian is added. 2. In para. 2 words. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 2, para. 3, p. One, two and three. 3. In para. 3 after the word "helps" shall be added by art. 2, para. 3, p. One, two and three. 4. In para. 4 after the word "helps" shall be added by art. 2, para. 3, p. One, two and three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 which becomes § 7 with the agreement that the paragraphs will be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u98	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 6 of the Commission report to be renumbered, and § 6, which shall become § 7, supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u99	Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, item 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The motion has been withdrawn. Under § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs: In § 7, in the context of the creation of the directive, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not bound by the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that the Court of Justice of the European Union does not have jurisdiction over the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become the relevant paragraph after the renumbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u100	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 126 MPs: 43, against 56, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 128 MPs: for 103, against 1, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10 with the renumbering arrangement. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 9, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 5 in the version of the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 6c shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: 6c. (1) The personal pensions of children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent under Art. 31 December 2018. 92 continue to be paid in the amounts set at that date by the current order. (2) The personal pension of a child for whom monthly assistance under art. 8f of the Family Aid Act for children shall be terminated on the basis of Article 8. 96, para. 1, t. 4 of the first day of the month in which the aid was granted on the basis of information provided to the National Insurance Institute by the Agency for Social Assistance within three days of granting the aid. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... The Council of Ministers shall, within two months of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal, adopt the necessary amendments and additions to the ordinance under art. 106 of the Social Security Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2019 with the exception of § 4 and 12, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u102	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of § 8, which shall become § 10, the name of the subdivision, the rejection of § 9, the version of § 10, which shall be § 11 of the Commission Report, the version of § 11, which shall become § 12, the version of § 12, which shall become § 13 of the Commission Report with the corresponding renumbering. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. That concludes the legislative part for today. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 5 October 2018 to 11 October 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water for a question from the MPs Ahmed Ahmedov and Ihsan Halil; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of four questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Zapreyan Yankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov. We're moving on to today's parliamentary control. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov will be the first to answer a question from the National Representative Anton Konstantinov Kutev regarding the functional duties of the Minister of the Bulgarian European Presidency at the moment. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister, my question concerns the functional duties of the Minister of the Bulgarian European Presidency in the case of Lilyana Pavlova. It is related, of course, to several facts that I would like to present at the beginning of this conversation. Firstly, in most of the presidencies that have passed in recent years in Europe, such a post as Minister for the European Presidency is virtually non-existent. In most cases, these posts are assigned to active members of the government who do so. There are cases in which they are assigned to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who performs these functions to coordinate the activities of the European Presidency. Currently, after Bulgaria the President of the Council of Europe in this case is Austria. In Austria, for example, this position is carried out by two active ministers, one, as I recall, is the culture and the media, which actually implements internal coordination, and another, which makes the external. In our case, we have chosen the option in which Lilyana Pavlova is the Minister of the European Parliament with the relevant.................... by the way....................................................................... If I'm not mistaken, between 60 and 80 people is the staff that works for her. This is, of course, not a whole ministry, but these are still people who have salaries and insurances that are paid by Bulgarian citizens. As the Presidency has already passed, for me the question is: what is this unit doing at the moment, what are the functional characteristics and why is Lilyana Pavlova still having to perform the functions of the Prime Minister of the European Parliament? Accordingly, what will happen or what is happening to the people who are serving this unit right now? In other words, what does Lilyana Pavlova do right now to make it simpler?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, to answer. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, there are different models in Europe, and this as the first European Presidency I think was important for Bulgaria and we did not have the confidence that we had enough administrative and management experience to conduct it, so we chose the option with the appointed Prime Minister for the European Presidency. In the period of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union Bulgaria proved to be a worthy, stable, responsible partner in the community. We managed to balance serious, difficult debates by demonstrating professional capacity not only at political but also at expert level. In this regard, the state authorities of Romania and Croatia have already invited Bulgaria to share with these countries the experience gained during our presidency. I recall that the country is part of the trio of Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria. We are currently working in continuous coordination with Estonia and Austria on our adopted programme, and this process will end with summary results at the end of 2018. The programme we implement within the trio has been developed on the basis of priorities, the European Union's strategic agenda, including the Europe 2020 Development Strategy. I assure you that the functional obligations of Minister Pavlova do not end with the official closure of the Bulgarian Presidency at the end of June, but with the official conclusion of the trio Presidency, as enshrined in the practice of the Council of the European Union and the Government Management Program. In addition, Minister Pavlova is Chairman of the Council on European Affairs of the Council of Ministers. It implements the management and control of this important mechanism, which ensures overall coordination of state policy on European issues. The Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency directs the meetings of the CEV and coordinates the preparation of projects, of planning documents related to the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the EU. In parallel with the above-mentioned responsibilities, additionally by a decree of the Council of Ministers of Minister Pavlova was tasked to coordinate the Seventh Annual Meeting of the Heads of Governments of Central and Eastern Europe and China, which took place on 6 and 7 July this year in Sofia. During this meeting with the Prime Minister of China, we decided to create a global partner centre in Bulgaria, which encourages cooperation between the countries participating in this initiative. In this regard, I assigned the Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency the task of coordinating the creation of the centre together with the Chinese side. In fulfilling this commitment, the Minister holds a number of meetings and consultations together with representatives of various Bulgarian departments, representatives of the People's Republic of China and the institutions of the European Union. On October 20th, now in a few days, Sofia will host the meeting The Local Leaders of 16+1s, which is also part of the initiative for cooperation between China and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The preparation, organization, activities and coordination for the meeting are assigned to the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency. In conclusion, after the completion of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the trio programme related to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the legislation in force, the necessary steps will be taken to close the Ministry and follow-up procedures for carrying out liquidation proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u106	Thank you, Prime Minister. For a line, please, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u107	Dear Prime Minister, from the question asked by me, i.e. what are the functional characteristics of the minister, from your response in practice I did not understand what they were, because you assured me that there are very serious characteristics and most of the time you talked about her relationships with China and that she had to do something with China. What will the Minister of European Presidency do with China, frankly, I do not understand?! What I understand is that this is an idea that came up a while ago. By the way, it's not your idea, but the President of the Republic, and I'm interested in you taking such initiatives, have you agreed with him? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] By the way, this can each of you who call from the auditorium to check it out has it in the media. One day before the Prime Minister announced it, it was announced by the President. I mean, it's right, when he does, to coordinate at least that. By the way, your ideas and his ideas are different. Yours is to be something that's government, his is nongovernmental. By the way, if you're going to do for China, why won't you do for the United States is another matter, but it doesn't concern the European Presidency?! On the issue of the European Presidency, there is something that is more important, and it is that at the end of the day you are telling me, as the troika goes, we will have a Prime Minister for the European Presidency. Fine, but Austria is currently in charge of the European Presidency. Austria does not have a prime minister for the European Presidency, we who are not Europresidents have a prime minister for the European Presidency? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There are two ways of asking Austria to bear the costs eventually, because in the end they are presidents, and they do not. If we're not presidents, why do we have one and how long will we have it? I mean, for me the logic... at least you didn't answer me, maybe in your next statement you'll tell me exactly what she was doing during that time. Everything you have listed two or three things, they are absolutely within the foreign minister's capabilities. I don't see any point in supporting any people. I really don't know how many they are, I heard they're 60 or 80, but these are salaries that are, like, 200 thousand leva a month and at that time we say we don't have money for people with disabilities. Here's money for people with disabilities, at least for some of them. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u108	Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Borisov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u109	I don't see the point. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u110	There's not gonna be a duvet. Let us thank the Prime Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. The first question is from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Milko Nedyalkov on inventory of the information communication infrastructure for the needs of electronic management. Here you go, Mr. Danchev. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, on 11 April of this year the State Agency of Electronic Management in connection with the project "Inventory of Information and Communication Infrastructure for the Needs of Electronic Management" (EIA) funded by Operational Program "Good Governance 2014 "2020" has entered into a contract under a public contract for a public contract for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... £646. 74 c. without VAT. The subject-matter of the contract includes two activities, one of which is an inventory of information and communication resources and covers central, regional and municipal administrations. As is known, every year the Council of Ministers, by its decision, shall adopt a Report on the state of administration containing detailed information or should be contained on the security of the administration with hardware or software with information and communication systems. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: how is the inventory of this project assigned to the company "Stemo" Ltd. different from the one that is made annually on the occasion of the Report on the State of Administration? Why do you have to re-energize? Why are the reports on the state of administration virtually unfit for evaluation of the information and communication infrastructure for the needs of electronic management? What is the way in which the data on information and communication resources are collected from the administration on that project and is this related to any additional burdens for the administrative structures that are being reviewed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Danchev, Mr. Nedyalkov, regarding the first part of the issue it is important to clarify that during the process of preparation of the annual reports on the state of administration there is no inventory of the information and communication infrastructure. It's not happening! This is the total data to be filled in, submitted by the administrations themselves. Yes, they give general orientation for the number of hardware and software resources available to the administration, but are deprived of the depth required for inventory purposes. The main objective of the inventory is to establish what systems administrations have and operate, how ICT funds and electronic management are spent, following the main objective of ensuring the uniform platform and interoperability necessary for the implementation of electronic management. The details of the inventory shall be consulted of a completely different nature. I will only allow myself to mark: analysis of operating costs, infrastructure risks, adequate technical support and many others, which cannot happen by the method by which data are collected for the purposes of the annual report. In addition, the inventory shall be carried out by another means. It is not based on maps with standardised questions to be answered by administrations, but also through a site visit. Regarding this part of your question within the framework of the project, the contractor, assisted by teams of the State Agency "E-Management", inventory 576 administrations, which are distributed in 2534 locations on site, which, as I said, also includes site visits. As is apparent, both methods and objectives, including the regulatory basis for carrying out the inventory, are different. I merely remind you that the inventory of information resources is not self-target but is the basis for the establishment of a register of information resources set out in art. 7 is from the Law on Electronic Governance. This register shall also be established within the Project and used by the inventory information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Danchev, you are entitled to a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, the answer to our current question with our colleague Nedyalkov, whom we have just heard from you, unfortunately, I think it is incorrect, just as obviously incorrect information is collected in connection with the Annual Report on the State of Administration. I expected you to answer why reports are being made with such information, which is obviously incorrect, and who needs such reports? For me the answer can be only one answer to you, Mr. Donchev, so that you can spend the state's money on obviously no unnecessary things. Moreover, for a work that is practically not done, as you have said, including through, but is done exclusively by your subordinate administration alone and alone. I expected to hear why, if the depth, as you have said, of the methodology used by STEMO in collecting information on information resources is better, it has not been used until now for the annual reports on the state of administration. What's the holdup? I ask: who is responsible for preparing these annual reports on the state of administration, which contain such unnecessary, incorrect data, and what exactly is its responsibility? You said that in one of the details to which this review has reached is the risks of the information infrastructure. I wonder if such a review of the risks to the information infrastructure has really been carried out? I doubt it is my answer, because if it were done, it would probably identify the problems of the BASIS system of the Customs Agency and the later incident that happened with the Trade Register. Perhaps if a real review of these risks had been made, he would also have discovered the problems in these systems and would have probably prevented the incidents with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u116	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u117	Dear Mr. Danchev, listening to the content of the line, I wonder if you didn't listen to me while I was answering, or the point of the question was to say something that you had in advance planned and which in no way corresponds to what I just put out. How do we compare data collected from polling administrations themselves, filled by employees, with visiting teams of experts carrying out an on-the-spot assessment? One has nothing to do with the other. The objectives of the two events are completely different. A word cannot be used for duplication of activities or, in even worse case, for unnecessary spending.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. The next question to you is from the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova, Lalo Georgiev Kirilov and Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov on the implementation of the Operational Programme Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers! My question is related to the implementation of the Operational Programme "Science and Education for Smart Growth" 2014 - 2020. This is not the first time I have asked a question about this topic not only to Mr. Donchev, but also to the Minister of Education and Science. However, at this stage, I do not receive adequate answers. I hope with this question of ours we will get precise and clear answers. As is known, the program had a number of problems, a delay in its launch, in the absorption of funds by contracting and practically one resource for Bulgarian science and education of about 1 billion. 16 million. lv. They created a problem for the Ministry of Education and Science. On 4 September this year, the Council of Ministers offered 100 million. lv. from the Operational Programme to be transferred to the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". The rapid review of the indicative timetable of the Programme shows that this is likely to be the funds transferred from the "Establishment of regional scientific centres" which are about the same budget as 100 million. lv. In practice, this represents 20% of the Programme, aimed at science and also state funding in the sector of science for about five years. Unlike other times when the European Commission is leading in such decisions, here the proposal belongs to the Managing Authority of the Programme itself. Our questions to you are in the following direction. First, what are the reasons for this decision of the Bulgarian government and also the reasons for the Ministry of Education and Science proposing the transfer of these funds? A little more general question. True, five years after the start of the Programme and two years before its completion, what is your assessment of the implementation of the Programme? Is it possible in 2018, when assessing the implementation of operational programmes, to register a loss of funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Tsonkov, I begin with the last question. I have no intention of reading the answer drawn up by the administration. There's no risk of losing money. I remember the period when the Operational Program was being created. Science and education for smart growth. The long discussions with different representatives of the academic community and the huge enthusiasm how they will have a program that is purposefully able to finance education and science, which is undoubtedly good. Then I said a line, which I hope many of them remember not as a counterargument, as a kind of reserve. I said, honourable Members, it is good to have a government program of yours, but keep in mind that if you go to create a governing body where it has not been there, the moment when it will work adequately is in five years. I was right about evil or good. Of course, Mrs. Professor, the reason for the so-called relocation or transfer of funds is correct in your question, it is about 100 million "Science and education for smart growth" in the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" is to minimize and avoid the risk of loss of funds under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." This is an operation that is consistent with the European Commission and done according to all requirements on the regulatory basis. It shall not lead to a change of any significant indicator set out in the Partnership Agreement. In any case, the funds in question must be spent in the direction not only of strengthening, developing innovation potential, but also of creating opportunities for innovation to be commercialised, i.e. accessible and offered on the market. In this sense, when setting up regional centres, we must necessarily finance partnerships of partner coalitions, inter-academic units, research units, laboratories, companies. Whether this is happening from the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" or from the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" is a topic on which an endless dispute can be waged. There are arguments one way or the other. If I may, beyond the administrative details, because de facto preparation for the next programming period is already under way. It is obvious from all preliminary analyses that we must dramatically increase the share of funding not only for science and education, for innovation. Even according to the preliminary design of documents 35% of the resources of the European Regional Development Fund must go in this direction. The more important question for me is not even from which operational programme investment will be made, but what are our methods in which we support innovation. In Bulgaria practically all models, known in Europe, and not only in Europe, have been applied to stimulate innovation development, direct subsidies for companies, direct subsidies for universities, compulsory partnership, building of innovation infrastructure. Although we have very good investments, I am absolutely convinced that our system for making money as a result is not fully effective. By asking yourself a meta-question to the question that you asked me, for me the main challenge is what redesign, what restructuring of the system of making money a result is necessary in order to have a stronger effect. Yes, we will share more money, but I want guarantees that this more money will turn into more effect repeatedly. Once again, the system that has been applied in the years behind, I do not mean only the last decade we have projects and the PHARE period of 14 years ago, the result, in my opinion, is not in line with expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. From the importers to the right of the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u123	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, honourable ministers! We have received an honest answer to the question of what is the evaluation of the Programme. The lack of administrative capacity leads to difficulties in implementing this programme. It is true that in the next programming period, much more attention should be paid to the need for the managing authorities to be able to manage the processes from the first moment when the Programme is protected so that results that are now tragic are not achieved. Only 8% of the funds have been paid out, 48% have been negotiated, whereas the centres of excellence have been identified by four consortiums, and there are complaints in the Administrative Court, respectively, of the others who do not agree precisely with the assessments made by the relevant jury. I am pleased by your optimism that innovation is important, but even more important is science. Because if you don't finance science, you won't have innovation. From the idea of innovation to its realization, five, six, seven or eight years pass. During this time, it is necessary to support these fundamental or applied research by means of the state budget in such a way as to have control accordingly, but also to bear in mind that research has a risk that needs to be generated. I have two additional questions. In your speech, I read that in the absorption of the funds under the Operational Programme Innovations and Competitiveness, leading will be the business and a secondary role is defined by the scientific centers which cannot be in Sofia and should be outside the country. Is there any idea what the business's leading role in funding means, in absorption? Because without having innovation, you have no way and in any form to talk about funds that can be used under this programme. I hope with our issues, and also in discussions that are related not only to this programme, but also to the next programming period, the ideas that we have in this area are able to better present ourselves in the scientific field, so that we can also talk about a competitive economy. This is, however, a common goal of not only the government at the moment, but also all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Donchev, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u125	Dear Mrs. Professor, by agreeing with much of the findings you have made, I will allow myself to make some clarification. Firstly, the data that you commented on on the payments under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" are not correct. Use the public module, where the data is updated in real time. The data I just printed shows a much higher rate of payment, nearly 20%. This dispute is not essential, it is checked by several clicks of the mouse. I don't know where you've read such a statement, if it's reflected somewhere, it means that I've been misquoted. Pointless and counterproductive is the dispute under such a scheme which is leading, because we need both. We have an indisputable need of the academic unit where discovery, innovation is being developed, at the same time we need the one who will commercialise it, the one who will bring it to the market. To say which of the two is more important means to work with a incomplete form is both important. Here the big historical problem for the past 10 or 15 years is how to get them to work together, because the undisputed fact that Bulgarian companies often prefer to buy ready-made solutions from abroad, ready and developed, not to go to Bulgarian universities or some of the Institutes of BAS, or to some other scientific unit and together with the teams there to want to find a way to develop it here and be complete. Another correction, if I may. The pace in which innovation comes into the market. If you look at a cell phone, all the technologies inside have been developed in the mid-'80s as technologies and have been implemented in the last decade. This pace has been getting more and more restless lately. In some cases, two and a half years are passed, even less, from the moment of laboratory emergence of innovation or invention to market deployment. We all see that projection is this rate of getting more and more breathless. This means that, among other things, besides more adequate, than smarter, we should try to be faster.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. That concludes the questions to you. We move on to a question, it is a single one, to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, who must answer a question from the MP Petar Boykov Vitanov on an enlargement policy of the European Union. Here you are, Mr. Vitanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madame Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! The European integration of the Western Balkans was brought up as one of the main priorities during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and perhaps the efforts in this direction gained the greatest publicity and the most prominent result. For me, this priority was formed rather spontaneously because it did not appear in the Presidency a little earlier in the process of co-operation of Southeast Europe, but even after it was over, it seemed that the general public had the belief that concrete measures were not taken after the end of the Presidency on its implementation. This, in turn, may create a sense of rather episodes, rather than consistent policy. Therefore, I ask you the question: what policy does the Bulgarian Government conduct regarding the enlargement of the European Union after the end of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vitanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have said many times, this priority is by no means for six months, and there is no way to implement such a six-month accession cycle in full. I am pleased that, on this policy at least here, it seems to me that we all agree that Bulgaria's national interest determines to have sustainable prosperous stable, secure and democratic neighbours, such as the Western Balkan countries. To put it another way, we need our neighbors to be okay. The priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency not only for the countries of the Western Balkans, but also for the security of the external borders, a stable economic environment, security in Europe are certainly not only for six months. I would stress that a number of initiatives relating to the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries are being held during the Austrian Presidency. Already officially Romania, from where, by the way, our colleagues consult us, and Croatia, they are in the next threesome of the Presidency, the first and the third countries, they have announced that they will continue with our priority. Only since the beginning of the year have more than 20 meetings been held with foreign ministers from the Western Balkan countries. Some of the formats are related to all European ministers. After the Bulgarian Presidency, Bulgaria continued to be invited and participated in the Berlin Process and the meeting in London, where the main topic was again how the process to support the future accession of the Western Balkan countries. There was then an informal Council during the Austrian Presidency, again related to the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. Bulgaria, Greece, Croatia and Romania at the initiative of Bulgaria in a four-sided format, which is traditionally held during the session of the UN General Assembly, we discussed again with the ministers what we can and how we can help this process be faster and more sustainable. We agreed to make joint visits, first of all, to the Republic of Macedonia, to Albania by the end of the year or at the beginning of the next year. These efforts also continue in different other formats, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and Serbia and the next summit will be in Bulgaria. In just less than a month, another four-page Bulgaria, Greece, the Republic of Macedonia and Albania are due. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll tell you just a few things we're practically doing. In October alone, the Republic of Macedonia and I have had the following events -- some of them have passed, others are coming. A meeting of the Joint Multidisciplinary Committee on Historical and Educational Affairs was held on 4 and 5 October 2018. On 18 October 2018, political consultations will be held between our foreign ministries. From 19 to 21 October 2018, state secretaries of all ministries in the Republic of Macedonia will arrive, led by the Secretary-General of the Government. They will have a number of meetings with their colleagues, including the National Assembly, for which I thank you. From 24 to 26 October 2018, we expect a working visit from representatives of the state administration of the Republic of Macedonia to exchange experience in the implementation of projects under European programmes. As soon as possible, there will be preparation at the moment of a business forum. There was one in Serbia, by the way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would like to thank the National Assembly in particular, because since the beginning of the term of office of this National Assembly, more than 27 parliamentary meetings have been held, including exchange visits since the beginning of the term of office of committees and of the President of the National Assembly. We will also post an expert to the European Commission. You know that it has created a Center of Communication, in which Bulgaria is specifically invited for the countries of the Western Balkans. You know that during the Presidency we strengthened the expertise and administrative capacity of our Permanent Representation in Brussels. For some of these experts, new numbers will be created in the Western Balkan countries. These are the experts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who will continue to support the process purely practically in the ministries of foreign affairs so that they can draw from our experience of the pre-accession process. So I will certainly not talk about the Development Programme, because my response time is very limited, unfortunately, in which focus and again the most projects are financed in the Western Balkan countries. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I admit, I have looked very carefully before asking the question and the calendar of the Austrian Presidency, and I must say that although taken as one of the priorities of the Austrian Presidency, I have not seen enough content in relation to the very realization of this priority. Rather, I believe that this priority was not so much of the efforts of Bulgarian diplomacy, but a matter of European conjuncture. Maybe when the geopolitical moment changes, that priority goes to the background. This is confirmed to a certain extent by your response, because for the most part you have quoted bilateral relations with our neighbouring country, which does not really answer what is being done about integration. We are not talking so much about a European perspective here, because during the Bulgarian Presidency the Sofia Declaration was a retreat from... [[GERB's line.]] Yes, from both the Thessaloniki Agenda and the Development Strategy. We've had a chance to comment on it. So I think that this may be the situation at the moment and I do not blame you personally here, but, given the change of geopolitical priorities, rather, I believe that this priority is not developing sufficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharievka. I'm just going to ask you to take the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u133	Yeah, I'm trying. Unfortunately, we are usually underestimated by Bulgarians. I assure you, Mr. Vitanov, the one called, if only it were a European conjuncture! Bulgaria has proposed this priority and it has not been easy to convince all 28 countries, so let us not underestimate the efforts that we all have, because I have mentioned Parliament for a reason, made and laid, and we will continue to make our neighbours and friends a member of the European Union. The truth is that what I very often hear only in Bulgaria is that the Sofia Declaration is a retreat, thank God it is not heard in the other countries. The truth is that the Sofia Declaration is the future framework, and this is highlighted by a number of external analysts, with very clear projects and programmes how exactly the European Union will support this integration and this process. Let me just recall what happened besides the Sofia Declaration, except for this historic meeting after 15 years. Let us not forget the agenda of the Declaration. We have a Council decision first, the General Affairs Council, after which the European Council, to begin membership negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia and Albania. Montenegro has submitted the questionnaire, the two decisions on Kosovo for visa liberalisation, new chapters have opened up in Serbia and Montenegro. If this isn't any tangible progress, I don't know who more can be achieved in six months? Let us not forget the Western Balkans Strategy, which the European Commission announced in February. I was quoting the formats. I have only quoted one of the countries of Montenegro as saying that there are no fewer initiatives. In Serbia, regular meetings at all levels. I will not stress that the President of the European Commission explicitly paid attention to Bulgaria's contribution to his annual speech on the state of the Union only a month ago at the opening of the new political season in the European Parliament. There is no prime minister or president who does not mention when talking about the Western Balkans, what Bulgaria has achieved. So I really want us to do a little bit here inside, however political differences we have on at least one subject to unite and take into account what we have all done together and we will do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva, the questions for you are over. From what I can see, Mr. Vitanov is not satisfied, but in another procedure of written questions and answers will be able to be specified. We are moving on to questions to Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. The first one is from the MP Kristina Sidorova about the future of the building of Cinematheatre, former Modern Theatre. Sofia, bul. "Princess Maria Luisa " No 26. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister Banov! The building of the first cinema in Bulgaria, known as the former Modern Theatre, is also the first cinema on the Balkan Peninsula. This is one of the sign buildings related to the history of the seventh art in our country. It was opened in early December 1908 and this year it became 110 years old. The building is a two-level hall with 600 seats. This is one of the most beautiful public buildings for culture and entertainment, along with the National Theatre, which are housed in the capital, and also in our country. In this building is screened and the first Bulgarian feature film "Bulgaran" is a gallant. Later there were premieres of a number of Bulgarian films. To date, however, the situation of the building is more than bad, it breaks down, repairs have not been done, and I do not need to say that films are not being screened there for a long time. There may be a purpose, and I don't know. I wonder if the building should be in a state where the characteristic of the cultural monument will be completely removed. Unfortunately, over the years, the privatization wave has virtually liquidated the building, with the activities of the first largest cinemas in our country no longer as it should be. One year ago 140 artists and fans of seventh art prepared and signed a proposal for the building to receive the status of a national monument of culture and thus to be saved. The letter was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, to the Ministry of Culture and Sofia Municipality. To date, however, there is no clarity about the fate of this beautiful building. Dear Minister, in this regard I ask you: what are your views and intentions for the future of this emblematic Bulgarian cinema building? At what stage is the procedure for granting the status of real estate cultural property with the category of importance of cinema "Modern Theatre"?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Sidorova! Modular Theatre "Modern Theatre" Sofia is a real estate cultural property with a category of local importance. By letter dated 30 October 2017 to Mr. Cholakov, Director of the National Film Centre, a request for a change of status was submitted to the Ministry of Culture and increased the category of A consolidated protocol on the general technical condition of the building was drawn up on the spot by regional inspectors of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage Protection and on 6 December 2017. In connection with the inspection, instructions for emergency temporary strengthening of the building and the appointment of the Committee on Art. 73, para. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage in Sofia Municipality, to carry out a field view, to confirm with a constant report the state of the real cultural value, the necessary research and design activities, as well as the type and volume of the strengthening conservation and restoration repair activities. By letter dated 12 February 2018, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage informed the Ministry of Culture of the work undertaken under a procedure for preparing a proposal of the Director of the Institute for Status Change. For this purpose, experts of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage have gathered and systematized archive data and documentation for the site. A view of the site, photoshooting and study of documents of current state is to be carried out. A committee of art has been appointed. 73, para. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage in the Department of Architecture and Urban Planning (Sofia Municipality) for 12 March 2018. The lawyer of the owner has not provided full access and the right to take pictures of the site. With an opinion of 1 August 2018, the Ministry of Culture refused to agree before an investment volume study of the site for reconstruction and reconstruction of existing cinema in the "Trade Center with shops and offices" and reconstruction of the roof of a building in Sofia, Blvd. "Princess Maria Luisa " No 26. The submitted design documentation does not comply with the requirements of Ordinance No 4 of 21 December 2016 of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, is not prepared by persons or under the direct direction of persons registered under art. 165 of the Cultural Heritage Act. No constructive examination and assessment of the condition and bearing structure of the building has been carried out, no procedure under art. Art. 73, Art. 74 of the Cultural Heritage Act, no architectural filming was introduced. On 17 September 2018 an investment project for the restoration of the façade of a building was introduced at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. As a result of talks between representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Architecture and Urban Planning, Sofia Municipality is organized a second commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act, scheduled for Friday, 12 October 2018, at 15:00, for which representatives of the General Directorate of the Cultural Heritage Protection Inspectorate and the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage have confirmed their presence and the owner has stated readiness to provide access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Banov, thank you for your answer. I learned from him that today is a sign day for the future of this building. I sincerely hope that the steps you have taken will lead to the rescue of this really emblematic building - a sign for Bulgarian cinema - not to allow another beautiful Bulgarian building of 110 years to be ruined and turned into a shopping mall. I believe that this issue will also give its importance to preserve part of the cultural heritage of the capital and part of the cultural heritage of Bulgaria, because if we ruin our history, we will not have a future. I believe that in a year's time we will have restored the beautiful building of the cinema.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Banov, the doppelganger? No. The second question to you is from the MP Krum Zarkov on the financial difficulties of the State Opera House and the measures to overcome them. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Perhaps not many people know that next year in the beautiful Danube city of Ruse will be celebrated the 100th anniversary of the opera case and 70 years of institutionalization of the State Cultural Music Institute. Unfortunately, this holiday will be met in bad conditions for this key cultural institution. For this we were alerted in their open letter from August the people working there, the team of the State Opera House, alerted the MPs, the district governor, the mayor, you, Mr. Minister, about the difficult financial situation in which the institution is located. In a detailed text which has been sent to all of us, the reasons for this difficult financial situation are described according to the people who work there and it is clear that the accumulated deficit is not due to maladministration or lack of visitor interest, but to inadequate to the specifics of opera art and to the socio-economic situation of the region funding mechanism. It is also apparent that the Ministry of Culture has addressed this issue as early as November 2017, but, unfortunately, until now, there have been no actions to address the serious concerns expressed by both the collective and the broad citizenship in Ruse. The truth is that the operation of the Opera is purely and simply threatened. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to answer: what is the current financial situation of the State Opera, at this time................................... the deficit and what do you think this accumulated deficit is due, what are the measures that the Ministry of Culture will take to ensure the operation of the opera and the creative activity of the collective?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, by recalculation according to the methodology as of 31 August 2018, the subsidy payable to the State Opera House Ruse amounted to nearly 1 million. 400,000. lv.; the resulting revenue from the subject of activity amounts to 265 thousand. lv.; with the included transitional balance of 2017 amounting to 1 million 127,000. BGN 248. the financial result realised at the beginning of the year is negative. As of 31 August 2018, it was negative by more than 2 million 500 thousand. The Ministry of Culture, in view of the deficit formed, requested an urgent analysis of the activity to be carried out by letter to the Director of the Institute and measures aimed at financial stabilisation, effective, efficient and economical management of the Institute by suspending financially uncertain obligations and commitments, to apply an impact assessment to reflect the ratio between costs and possible revenues in the preparation of the repertoire. In a written reply to the Ministry of Culture, the Director of State Opera Ruse points out that he is working towards diversification of the repertoire, optimization of the state, increased ticket prices and expected attendance, and expected results should be taken into account in the second half of the year. In this regard, the Ministry of Culture is exercising enhanced control and monitoring in relation to the State Opera of Ruse. Three inspections have been carried out so far by the competent Directorates of the Ministry and the results and recommendations are presented to the Director of the Institute. The checks will continue permanently. In order to ensure normal conditions of work of the Institute so far, and in the future, the Ministry has not allowed and will not allow any delay in the payment of the remuneration of the employees, has not suspended the payments of commitments made by the State Opera Ruse, including liabilities to natural and legal persons, and will not stop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u145	Dear Minister, of course, thank you for your reply, although he is somewhat disappointing. It is clear that with changes in the repertoire and the measures that the Director of the Opera House in Ruse can take, the huge deficit of 2 million will not be erased. Five hundred thousand. lv. Perhaps it was worth stressing, or at least agreeing with me, that this money was not accumulated because it was spent and overdue, they accumulate through accounts, through financial accounting relating to the implementation of a mechanism for which not I, not the Opera collective in Ruse, but all of them, including I suppose that you also know in the Ministry, appreciate as completely inadequate. This was last expressed very recently on 28 September 2018 there was a meeting organised by the Union of Bulgarian Musicians and Dancemakers with the assistance of the CNSB and other trade unions, where all present there united around the fact that with such a methodology all cultural institutions "Operas," but also the theatres, to some extent, which are outside Sofia, are doomed to deficits and ultimately to closure. Perhaps it was also appropriate to stress and say that it is not normal to require of an institution of any institution of any kind to make its accounts for the year forward in January, and only a few months later, the applicant of the Ministry of Culture, to say what framework it may evolve from! To be clear, I will give you an example: on 13 February 2018 the directors of institutions receive letters with a specified plan for 2017. That is, these people understand in February 2018 what funds they had in 2017. During this time they have incurred some costs in 2018. 15 months later the Ministry of Culture said to them: "Well, you had a million less, so you get a million levs deficit, so there is no chance for these institutes to be able to react to something like this. That's what you're quite familiar with. Therefore, I ask you politely for medium-term measures to no longer hide our head in the sand and for the Ministry to change the appropriate methodology, taking into account the specifics of both the arts and the regions, but also short-term measures in relation to the State Opera Ruse. Please not only epistolically communicate with the director and tell each other things that you both know, but to go to the place you, your experts, who you decide, see fellow MPs from Ruse, let us go together, have appropriate talks and see with what and how we can be useful to this institution. There is a decision, honourable Members. That money hasn't been spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you don't know the matter you're talking about, and in this sense, it's very difficult to answer because you're deprofessionalizing the conversation. The measures we take are extremely adequate, serious, I would say, with due respect for the dignity of this institution and the city of Ruse. They are related to permanent checks, permanent communication with the management bodies of the Institute, taking into account the ambitions and desires of the management to progress. The State Opera Ruse experienced cataclysm in the last year and a half, not because of any other reason, but because its director ran and went to the Philharmonic in Sofia, after which he became a temporary performer, a second temporary performer until the current director was elected with a competition, so to some extent this cataclysm is expected and predictable. There was a strong director there who worked very well for 15 years. I think and still believe, but not so in general trust, knowing about the plans, the way the director thinks that this season the Opera will come out of this situation. And these figures, minus two million plus two million, are different for different institutes, and in the years they change. We have a lot of cases where from minus one year or two in one normal activity comes to the opposite plus. We have huge benefits in the Plovdiv Opera, as we have a very good balance of the Opera in Varna, and the Opera in Stara Zagora was on huge cons. At the moment, we are having difficulties in Ruse, and in fact, in other operas, we are not. Burgas struggles from time to time, but they are not of that nature. To talk about the system on the basis of an institute, whether it is good or bad, this conversation I am ready to conduct always, everyone knows that I do not slave to systems, I want things to happen for the Bulgarian performing arts so that they can go forward, people will feel good and viewers will receive a quality and interesting product. I'm ready for any conversation about changes in the system, but based on single cases to comment in this way, I think it's not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I hope that the conversation on these topics will not only remain within these five minutes, but you will continue to conduct it. The last question to you is from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on the state of the Monument of Freedom of the Peak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Banov, the Monument of Freedom, erected on Mount Shipka or Mount St. Nicholas, as is actually the name of the summit, is an expression of the greatest honor and appreciation to those who died for the freedom of Bulgaria. The monument is part of Shipka Park Museum, opened in 1934, and next year will be its 85th anniversary. Thousands of Bulgarian and foreign tourists and citizens pass through this monument daily to worship the memory of those who died for freedom and to pay their respects to them. However, to date, the condition of the monument is not at all good, but rather disturbing. When you go inside and see the building, you will be impressed that there is a broken plaster along the stairs, that the sails that are at the top of the terrace are the whole written with extremely cynical inscriptions and in fact the monument of freedom does not look like the way a Bulgarian sanctuary should look. It is true that you are familiar with the state of the monument. A minister is supposed to know his highest and most magnificent monument. In this regard, my question to you is: what actions will you take and what deadlines for this truly most Bulgarian and largest monument to restore its full brilliance? In this regard, I will give you pictures of the state of the monument that were taken a month ago. I know that there are efforts on the part of the management of the park museum to restore the monument, but only efforts such as words are not satisfactory to me or to the Bulgarian citizens who want to see the monument in their glamour.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Sidorova! With the Public State Property Act issued by the Regional Administration, Stara Zagora, on 12 February 2018 the rights for the ownership and management of the building were granted to the National Park Museum of Shipka at the Ministry of Culture. The monument is listed in the assets of the museum and is insured. According to instructions given before 2015, by the Inspectors of the General Directorate of the Cultural Heritage Inspectorate, the current Director has implemented: a technical project on fire-fighting installation, agreed by a letter of 3 June 2016 from the Ministry of Culture; he has implemented a project for a video surveillance system of the monument, which was agreed by letter of 6 January 2017 to the Ministry; he has entrusted specialists with the preparation of a state-of-the-art assessment and proposals to remove the damage caused by condensation and infiltration moisture; he has commissioned a technology to perform restoration intervention on the sculptural figure of a lion, in agreement with a letter of 10 September 2016 to the Ministry of Culture; he has commissioned the development of the technological consistency for carrying out the conservation and restoration intervention on the sculptural figure of the lion, coordinated by letter of 10 September 2016. All measures have been taken to prepare the technical passport of the monument on which it is currently working. After its preparation will proceed to the next stage of work on the project.................................................................................................... I assure you that the Director is doing everything he can to solve the problems. This summer, two orders were dropped because of the lack of candidates to perform them, and there's only one company that showed up. So he's doing everything he can, and we're watching the situation strictly. I think that in some foreseeable future this thing, abandoned for so many years, will find its adequate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, it takes more effort, and perhaps a greater desire for this monument to really look like a Monument of Liberty. Because when you bring Bulgarian guests or foreign guests and they see that the Monument of Liberty is deboned and what you see from the pictures I gave you just now, the feeling that every Bulgarian feels is a shame that the Bulgarian state has allowed its sanctum to look like this. I believe that you will find powers, you will find legal ways, you will find funds by 3 March or next year when it will be the 85th birthday of the monument, it will look right. It is really a shame for the Bulgarian state the Monument of Freedom, where the bones of Bulgarian militias and Russian warriors stand, to be poised, to be written with ugly inscriptions, to be with a fallen plaster. This does not speak well for the Bulgarian state as a state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, it hurts me, too, to look at these pictures, and without looking at them, I know what's happening. We'll do our best, but, unfortunately, sometimes these notorious procedures that we have to do for everything make us look ridiculous in people's eyes. And let's not do what we'd like to do today, because we have to wait for one order or another to pass, someone to pity her, not feel sorry for her, and so on. We have made this commitment, and the director is aware that this is one of his main missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Banov, and that concludes the questions for you. We move on to questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question to her is from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov about the need to undertake urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the third-class road Yugovski fork. "Lucky and so on. Mr. Chakarov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Avramova, you are another Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to which I address, and I ask this question in relation to the extremely poor condition of the third-class Southovski branch. This is the road leading to Lucky Municipality, on the border of Plovdiv district with Smolyan district. When I started asking that question, the condition of this road from the Yugo branch to Lucky was bad. Unfortunately, at the moment we can say that it is extremely bad and it is risky traffic on this road in the indicated segment. Really living there, and all the people who are concerned this time are demanding urgent and urgent repairs to ensure road safety. It is hardly necessary to point out, but it is still good to say that this is the only road that connects Lucky Municipality to Plovdiv district centre, is also an alternative to the road to Smolyan and to a large extent traffic to the Hellenic Republic. The critical situations in which travelers go down this road are everyday. In addition to the residents of the municipality, which I refer to, Lucky, there is a large stream of tourists to the monastery in Krastova Gora, to the wonderful nature in this region, and there are also structural-determining enterprises that matter both for the region and nationally, and hence there is a need to transport raw materials both in the area of logging and in the field of mining. It's a challenge for them to travel this way. We can say that this time it is a third-class one, but by gauges it does not meet these criteria. The most important thing is that at the moment there is really a need for help.. with a view to ensuring safety, not to an accident, do not give God, but then to run and do the necessary repairs. My question to you is: is there an urgent and urgent repair of this road envisaged, what is the possibility of including the site in the building program of the Road Infrastructure Agency and will it be included in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, yes, the third-class road network in the country really needs urgent and urgent repairs. We are aware of the problem you have raised, which you really asked questions about and were given an answer by Minister Nankov. For the time since your previous inquiry.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A public contract has been conducted by the Road Infrastructure Agency and a contract has been concluded with the subject of the contract for the construction of a technical project for major repairs, rehabilitation and partial reconstruction of the site and for the exercise of copyright supervision within the meaning of the Construction Act in the territory of all parts of the technical project. The technical project has been developed in two stages. Its purpose is to bring the road into a really suitable gauge, as you mentioned, that is, there will be enlargement, watering, strengthening of the vents. These activities will require the provision of additional terrains outside the existing range of the road, for which a detailed development plan will be developed and carried out, a parcel plan. Both for any investment intention and for this project after its development the Ministry of Environment and Water will decide on the need to conduct a procedure under environmental legislation. The planning of the site in the Investment Programme of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" depends on two conditions. First, complete all procedures relating to the approval of the project and the coordination procedures. The second very important point is to provide, in advance, an estimate of an amount of between 39 and 43 million. lv. At present, the draft documentation for the first interim phase has been adopted by an expert council. The second stage of the project paperwork, which represents the real project, and not alternative proposals, has been prepared and is about to be examined. With regard to the necessary funding, as you have already been informed of the previous response, it is likely that it will be carried out in steps within the API budget, and we will try to include it in 2019 and 2020. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency are familiar with the problem. In 2017, 2018, partial repairs were carried out on this road. We will work to secure the financial resources and to implement this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u160	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Mr. Chakarov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Avramova, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply in the part where you point out that all this is being prepared procedurally, assigning technical projects and so on, I will not repeat it. My request is to have some time frame for everything that happens. This is to be made public to the entire public that lives there, to the people and to the business that operates there. I suggest that you visit, we can organize together with other Members of the National Assembly from both districts of Plovdiv region and from Smolyan, to see what the situation is. You said repairs were being carried out. I suppose you've been informed, if not, to tell you that specifically in the part of the road from South to Lucky there is an extremely risky landslide. I have recently traveled there to the city of Lucky and the passage is very dangerous. God forbid there is to activate the landslide and get a car. God forbid, I don't want to think about what would happen. My proposal is that the API Regional Office should check in particular what is the situation there and take urgent measures. I hope that the urgent repair, which is extremely necessary and urgent, will be organised until winter comes, because the movement would be extremely difficult. It's good to outline the frame. Let us hope that I will no longer have to ask the question, because we will be following this process, and I, as a person and as a doctor, as a representative of the country and as a citizen, will be watching it to avoid any serious catastrophes. Even business would retire if there was no proper infrastructure, but lost lives could not be returned. So my appeal is to be the subject of both you and the API this time to be included because it is really necessary. The funds are always insufficient, but at least partially, phased out where it is most necessary to do so. We're counting on your cooperation. We will monitor the realization of the good intentions that I hope we all have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, you won't have the back. We move on to the second question, which is also asked by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, about the readiness of the water sector to apply under the Operational Program. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Avramova, on 20 July 2018, the Managing Authority of Operational Programme The final date for submission of documents under the procedure is 23 April 2019. On 8 August of this year, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme has held a working meeting with representatives of the water operators and associations of the water water and water water services in connection with the preparation of the project proposals. Unfortunately, despite repeated assurances over the past years, the issue I am asking you is our extreme concern and concern that the preparation has not yet been completed, I refer to the investment studies, the application forms. To date, no project proposal has been submitted by a water operator. Our concern and concern comes from the fact that the programming period has started 2014, you have recently become the Minister. This is clear to us and we are fully understanding. I have asked this question before the Regional Minister that rapid, accelerated realization is really necessary. The funds provided for under this axis for the water infrastructure are extremely necessary. It is hardly necessary to point out that the funds needed there, based on preliminary studies, are about 12 billion. This resource in the Operational Programme must necessarily be invested, although it is extremely insufficient. However, we have no right to lose these funds. There are no proposals for this. We hope that the water operators speed up by the end of the year and by the beginning of the next will submit the necessary documentation, applications, then they need to be approved. They will then follow public procurement under the Public Procurement Act and the selection of contractors. We know that they can be appealed. This is 2019 and the horizon is 2020. We have no time to waste. I hope you and I all realize that. With this in mind, my question to you is: what is the readiness of the water service sector to apply under Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020 " and in particular the procedure by providing direct financial assistance for the construction of a water infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chakarov, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works implements the Project "Helping Regional Investment Planning of the Water Sector" within the framework of a grant agreement under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 One of the activities of the project is the preparation of regional pre-investment studies and projects of application forms for European funding under OPOS 2014 - 2020 with all necessary applications for water projects in 14 districts: Burgas, Shumen, Sliven, Plovdiv, Yambol, Kardzhali, Varna, Ruse, Dobrich, Silistra, Vidin, Vratsa, Pernik and Stara Zagora. Regional pre-investment studies define integrated water supply projects to achieve compliance with national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, waste water disposal and waste water treatment and increase the efficiency of systems and facilities. Currently, regional pre-investment studies are ready. He also completed work on ideas for linear infrastructure. In the process of coordination and approval of municipal administrations are detailed spatial plans, parcel plans for water pipelines and collectors, which have routes outside the regulated areas. Under the terms of the funding programme, the beneficiaries will be the water operators. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will provide regional pre-investment studies to the water operators who, according to the published application guidelines, have the commitment to reconcile the project proposals with the Water and Water Associations. The guidelines require that the designated projects be reflected in the management, maintenance and operation contracts for water systems and facilities and the provision of water services concluded between associations and operators. I point out that the measures and projects that will be implemented with the funds of the Programme are presented regularly to representatives of the Water Associations. We expect efficiency in the process of coordination and submission of project proposals to the Managing Authority of the OPS under the procedure referred to for direct grant before the deadline, which is actually 19 April 2019. It is important to note that the overall plan and steps for planning and implementation of investment in the water infrastructure in the period 2014 - 2020 have been prepared and coordinated with the European Commission and stakeholders from the outset. During the period of preparation of the regional pre-engagement studies, representatives of the Jaspers initiative to the European Commission reviewed and gave recommendations at every stage of the development. Water operators as future beneficiaries were actively involved in their work in order to be able to achieve maximum coherence and recognition with a view to the implementation of investment and subsequent operation of the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u166	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs Avramova, thank you again for your reply in the part where you point to relatively some evolution, progress in preparing for the start of the work in the direction we are talking about, namely the submission of the necessary documentation, to say it in general by the beneficiaries, just as the state in dialogue with the European Commission has decided to be the water operators and associations. Unfortunately, at this time, there is no particular result. This makes us extremely worried that we are already at the end of the fifth year of the programming period. It's been four years. I very much hope that, as you have pointed out, by the end of this year, the applications by the water operators will be submitted and the procedures for construction, 97 for services will follow. Once again, I would like to reiterate that we are unlikely to have the right, I would like to stress that we have no right to lose this important financial resource in view of the needs for improving the quality of the water service. This naturally leads to improving the quality and standard of living of all of us in our country. Once again, I tell you that we are really very concerned and worried about the condition. I hope you share this thing, too. We need to speed things up. I am most well-intentioned and constructively telling you that we will ensure that this process is implemented. We have no right for this enormous financial resource not to be realised, and it is for its own purpose. In no case should we allow what has become the previous programming period to have a relocation, i.e. a redirection of funds, in the context of environmental policies for other purposes. The need for the water sector is clear, prominent. There is no way after that on the basis of an increase in the cost of the water service to look for a resource for investment in the water sector. I hope that there will be a positive development that we will see, but it will require a full mobilization, for which we as opposition, if any legal changes are needed and we will share experience with all of this we are ready and positive and negative experience. I, too, as a former minister, and all my colleagues in our parliamentary group have this readiness, it is discussed. We are ready to share all this in the name of the realization of these funds in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Dear Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u169	Mr. Chakarov, thank you. I understand your concern and concern. I am also concerned that these funds, which will be provided under the OPOS Programme, will be used by the water operators. This is also my commitment to the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment and Water. The two ministries are in a continuous dialogue so that we can implement this project together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to you is from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Tsvetan Topchiev regarding the appointment of a contractor for additional design and construction on the road E-79 "Mezdra " Botevgrad, Lot 1 and Lot 2. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at the beginning of August this year the Road Infrastructure Agency has suspended the tender for the appointment of a contractor for further design and construction of the road I-1 "Mezdra " Botevgrad, Lot 1 and Lot 2. The reason for the termination of the procedure gives art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 5 of the Public Procurement Act:? there have been violations in its opening and conduct which cannot be removed without altering the conditions under which the procedure has been declared. Dear Minister, you are aware of the importance of this road for the region, the construction of this road for the region, what great tensions are causing its failure, given that I think it was March, the Council of Ministers made a firm commitment to start building this road. In this regard, my question to you is: what are the specific reasons that led and justified the termination of the tender, and when will the procedure be announced again? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u172	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Ivanov, Dear Mr. Topchiev! I am probably the last person to convince that the road Vidin is important for Northwestern Bulgaria, but I will respond in detail to the specifics in your question. On 22 March 2018, tender procedures were announced for the selection of contractors for additional design and construction for the two lotts of road I-1 "Vidin" "Botevgrad" with the following estimated values: Lot 1 lv. without VAT, and Lot 2? 178 million And 800 thousand. lv. without VAT. The deadline for receiving tenders from the participants in Lot 1 procedure was 28 May 2018 and for Lot 2 4 June 2018. In the course of the procedure, in connection with an inquiry by an interested party, it was found that there were discrepancies between the submitted design documentation, explanatory note and drawings and the attached quantitative account and payrolls to the project. The request was made after the expiry of the term under art. 100 of the Public Procurement Act, within which the contracting authority has the opportunity to make one-off changes to the documentation by issuing a decision amending the notice or additional information, which is why termination of the procedures has been imposed. The contradictions found in the procurement documents under the procedure cannot be eliminated by clarification under art. 33 of the Public Procurement Act, since according to the constant practice of KPC and SAC, it is unacceptable to change or supplement documentation already approved by the contracting authority. According to art. 33: The persons may request written explanations of the decision, notice, invitation to confirm interest, procurement documents and the descriptive document within 10 days of the expiry of the time limit for receipt of requests for participation and/or tenders. In view of this, it is found that there is no legal basis for the procedures to continue with the submission of tenders, selection, examination and evaluation of tenders and on the basis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 5 of the Public Procurement Act the procedure has been terminated. Decision No 97 of 16 July 2018 of the Contracting Party for the termination of the contract, subject to the designation of a contractor for further design and construction of road I-1 The decision is not contested and a new procurement procedure has therefore been prepared. The new procedure clears all technical gaps from the first procedure, with the two new procedures for determining the contractor for additional design and construction of the two lotts in the Mezdra section of Botevgrad announced on 10 October 2018 and the deadline for submission of tenders is currently in place. The subject of the new public contracts is as follows: the designation of a contractor for the update of the technical design and construction of the site road I-1, E-79, Mezdra "Botevgrad," Lot 1 and the designation of a contractor for further design and construction, road I-1, E-79, Mezdra "Botevgrad," Lot 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Thank you, and for that we hope that we also have some merit for this extremely important project, which is not only the will of the Members of the National Assembly and yours as Minister of Regional Development, but also of all the citizens of the Northwest, it is to happen as quickly as possible. We heard that yesterday the new two procedures have been announced to update the project for selecting a contractor. Of course, the question remains, why did it take three months for the contracting authority to prepare the new procedure? The question of the other two important procedures remains for selecting a consultant in relation to the implementation of these two lots. All road projects to be implemented in the country are important. We hope that you, as a representative of the region, Minister of Regional Development, along with our support, which you can rely on strongly, will prepare the other procedures as quickly as possible, so that they can move relatively in a package as quickly as possible to be completed and to start construction. I am convinced that after the civil tension that was last year, after the expressed willpower that this project will finally happen and after everything that has been undertaken so far, if a problem happens again and this procedure does not continue, it does not come to a concrete realization of this important project, people will not forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u177	Dear Mr. Ivanov, as the road Vidin "Botevgrad," in particular the section, which is the most heavy and most busy for movement, the section that you refer to in your question "Mezdra "Botevgrad" is a priority site for me and for the whole of Northwestern Bulgaria, and for the people who have voted to trust you, to be their People's Representative. I assure you that as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I will personally monitor the procedures and the entire implementation of the project. The delay in the announcement on 10 October 2018, the procedure was announced the other day, it was important for me to have the documentation of the procedure in order so that we could have no more appeals and have an elected contractor in 2019, to have a project that in mid-2019, at least that is my desire, to start its implementation, that is to say, real construction. An important road to Northwestern Bulgaria! For me, it is not only the highways that connect the state horizontally that are important to me, and these two roads are important to me. These vertical sections are extremely important for Northern Bulgaria and in particular the northwest. We continue to work jointly with both you and the Ministry for the realization of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. The next question to you is from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov on repair and reconstruction works on the bridge over the river Botonia, near the village of Kravoder, road I-1 Montana Vratsa.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you know very well that in the summer of this year the repair works started on the bridge near the village of Kravoder on the road I-1 Montana Vratsa. The road facility over the Botonia River is scheduled to be completed by the end of the construction season. According to my information, the linear timetable for execution of the site is until the end of October. Our question to you is: what is the deadline for the repair, according to the contract concluded, at what stage is the implementation and how much of the planned repairs have been carried out so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Genov! Following an examination and analysis of the technical and operational characteristics of the Botunya bridge at km 129+355 on Republican Road I-1 Montana, Vratsa was found to be in poor operational condition in February 2017. As a reason for the damage to the bridge, leaks are indicated through the road plate resulting from lack of waterproofing, damaged dilatation joints and non-functioning drains. The construction works of the bridge facility started on 1 August 2018 with the signing of Protocol-Act Model 2 for the opening of a construction site. The period for the implementation of the construction activities under the signed contract shall be 90 days. The renovation works are worth 689 thousand. BGN 807, the funds are provided by the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency. 65% of the renovation works have been completed at the moment, but given the technical complexity of the site it was necessary to investigate and correct the project in relation to the realization of the gardenballast walls and transition plates. The planned top construction of the bridge will be completed within the foreseen time limit of 31 October 2018, and the movement of the facility will be launched. Until now, the activities have been carried out to dismantle restrictive systems, to remove existing flooring on the facility, to spoil an existing concrete concrete concrete from the pavement blocks and the road plate, the composite, reinforcement, concrete works for the additional beams of the top structure and the road plate. The construction of transitional concrete elements is currently being carried out which connect the bridge construction with the road sections before and after the facility, carried out in km 129+220 and 129+458 preliminary repairs to the pavement. Coming up: completion of construction and installation activities, which include construction of drainage facilities, renovation of the bridge structure, waterproofing of the road plate, new asphalt concrete flooring, installation of restrictive systems and laying of new horizontal marking and vertical signalling. We have the executor's assurance that he will meet the terms of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u182	Thank you, dear Minister. Do you have a line? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope that the commitment you make on behalf of the regional structure of the Roads Service and also on behalf of the contractor will be respected. I very much hope that this means that the temporary organisation of the movement in the direction of Vidin, which is extremely complicated and creates huge difficulties, especially for a small municipality such as Krivodol, which has virtually taken over all traffic at the moment, will be stopped and the movement in the direction of the main road E-79 will begin. I have an additional question, which is more my concern. I noticed that in the contract the terms of guarantee are as follows: for part of the journey We have heard that during the construction itself, new structural problems have arisen, which probably led to an extension, as provided for in the contract, of the deadline for the construction of the site. But my concerns are that these are extremely short-term, especially given the complexity of the construction during this season, and such a danger should not be allowed in the future, because it really blocks almost all of the international and Republican traffic in an extremely important direction. We know very well that the topic we spoke about just now on our previous issue, and all sections of this time when they are repaired, stopped by movement, there is an extremely serious problem for all traffic in the region and for those living there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, I understand your concern that we are creating inconveniences. I, too, would like to apologize to all who are traveling along this route, for the inconvenience that they have to go on bypass routes. The good thing about this case is that the bypass routes are in good technical condition, as the road Montana is in the same way as the road Montana "Vratsa". The traits of the city of Krivodol and the road Vratsa............................. are in good technical condition...................................................................... are in good............................................................................................................................ This construction of the Kravoder bridge is part of a large investment program of the Road Infrastructure Agency. After investigation of all bridge facilities and viaducts on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Republic of Bulgaria road network, such facilities are established that require urgent repair. So it is also important for us to perform the repair quality, within the time limit, and this bridge is known to all residents in the area that it has been repaired several times to be in good operational condition and no more problems with this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u186	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. The next question to you is from the MP Stefan Burgeev about the road marking on the road III-3005 village of Yasen village of Katunets, Pleven district and Lovech. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u187	Dear Mr. Mareshki, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! My question to you, Minister: the road III-3005 village of Yasen is the village of Katunets, Pleven district and Lovech, providing a vital transport connection. In this part, the regular lines for the public transport of passengers from the settlements through which they pass. In the part of Pleven region these are the villages Yasen, Turnene, Garden, Petarnitsa, Birkach and Begleg, of which this is the main link with the district center of Pleven. This is also the road used by school buses, which ensure that the children are transported to the neighboring villages and the town of Dolni Dubnik, where they study, which makes even more acute and sensitive the issue of the organisation of the movement in a way that ensures safe and safe movement. Given the climate features of the area, the frequent fog and the associated limited visibility, along with the current poor condition of the road marking, my question to you is as follows: when will the necessary comprehensive and quality road marking be placed on this road, ensuring the safety of traffic and citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Burgeev, the activities of laying the horizontal marking on the Republican roads on the territory of the North-Western region, including the districts of Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Lovech and Pleven, are carried out by the Union The company was selected after a public contract under the law and the term of the contract is 4 years old and will end in June 2019. Due to the systemic lack of budget resources to maintain the Republican road network, it is necessary to carry out road marking according to the road class, its economic importance, its workload. Therefore, at this stage the third-class network is planning cross-border marking activities, without end-lines. The marking of end-lines is planned for roads of great importance and high intensity of movement. Motorways, first-class and second-class roads. Republican Road III-3005 village of Yasen. The village of Katunets, which is the subject of your question, does not meet those criteria for end-lines. This does not at all mean that I underestimate the presence of quality, as you have expressed yourself, a road marking laid down in accordance with all the requirements for marking. On the contrary, my desire, the desire of the Road Infrastructure Agency and of all who work in the industry, is to have repaired, with proper vertical and horizontal road markings. In order to increase the safety of the movement along the third-class road, which is important for the population of the region and provides the connection between the villages Yasen, Disevitsa, Turnene, Gradina, Petarnitsa, Birkach, Begleg and Katunets, in the first ten days of September there was marked along the section of the road from the territory of the district of Pleven between the village of Yassen and the village of Beglaglez from km 1+900 to km 30+200. The route of the road is marked outside the settlements and the activity is carried out with forces and means of the Regional Road Management Pleven, and is marked " 2103 square meters." The section from km zero to km 1+900 in the village of Yasen was renovated in 2017 and there is a horizontal marking in the scope of the renovation. A request has been made for marking on the main line in the rest of the road covered by Lovech District and the borders of Pleven District, from Regional Road Management to Lovech Road Infrastructure Agency and funds will be provided by the Agency's budget. For the complete implementation of the end-line marking and cross-border marking for Pleven district, 64 thousand are required. lv. With VAT and the Road Infrastructure Agency, it will continue to make efforts to secure the funds so that we can have improved horizontal and vertical markings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! To a certain extent, I can't be angry at you, at least you were honest about what is envisaged and what is available. But at the moment you are engaged.. you told me that 65 thousand. lv. More or less is the estimated value that determines the Regional Road Management for the so-called marking of the sanitary and your commitment that I have heard is that you will be making efforts to raise funds. It is difficult for me to accept that these funds cannot be obtained, with two solid arguments, one of which is very recent, the focus of society after the severe tragedy in Svoge and at all the irritation of all citizens travelling is that there are no necessary conditions for safe and secure movement. On this sensitive issue, so important and relevant to all citizens of the state, I would like to understand that there is still an analysis of the problems and possible budget, Madam Minister, I repeat, with tolerance and respect, much more serious things to hear from you, more efforts and commitments, and more specific in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u192	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u193	Dear Mr. Burgeev, both my wish and the priority of the government and the Prime Minister will be road safety. It is not for a reason that such a unit is being set up in the country, an agency to take care of road safety, to regulate and control the work of all others who have any relationship, as well as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Just a few data I will give you to understand that it is not a matter of lack of desire from the Agency or from the Ministry to repair all roads, to mark the horizontal and vertical markings, and to be correct. During the investigation ordered by Minister Nankov before me, the state of all roads on the territory of the Republican Road Network proved that 25% of these roads are in poor condition. And 4700 kilometers from the third-class road network, which is just over 11,000. km, they're in bad shape. You understand for a reason the questions that are addressed to me as Minister of Regional Development are many and they are about the state of the road. The majority of them feature sections of the third-class Republican road network. We will make every effort before the start of the winter season to have roads marked and those less loaded, the centre line will certainly be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u194	Thank you, Minister Avramova. We are continuing with a question from the same section of the question from the National Representative Bürhan Afford on the need to undertake urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Republican road III-2001 Pisan, Vetovo, Glodzhevo, Kubrat, passing through the territory of the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Minister, I deeply hope that I will not receive an answer like my colleague just now. My question to you is related to the need to undertake urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of Republican road III-2001 Piscan The current condition of the above road is very bad All this affects the safety of the movement within the municipality of Vetovo and endangers the security of travelers. The road integrity deprives the inhabitants of the municipality of access to the three major centers in the region of Kubrat, Razgrad and Ruse. The Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior and the Municipal Council in the town of Vetovo have repeatedly signaled the Regional Road Management of Ruse about the extremely poor condition of the road. In this regard, as a citizen living in this territory and as a representative from this region, I ask you the following question: within what time will you take the necessary action for urgent repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation of Republican road III-2001, passing through the territory of the municipality of Vetovo? What is the possibility of including this site in the construction program of the Road Infrastructure Agency? To the question that I have asked you, I have applied three signals of the Regional Road Traffic Management "Vetovo," about the poor condition of the road, and lastly, a protest declaration by the Municipal Council of the town of Vetovo against the outrageous state of the Republican Road Network on the territory of the whole municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u196	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u197	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Affordable Republican Road III-2001 Ruse is situated on the territory of the municipality of Vetovo. The road shall be taken care of according to the available budget resources for the area. In June this year, on route III-2001, there was a patching with bitumen emulsion and a pressure fraction, which I know is infinitely insufficient. The activities are included in the monthly certificate and are subject to payment. In order to improve visibility and expand the gauge, cleaning is also carried out around the road. For the third-class road there is a task for repair of a segment with a length of 17.1 km from km 14+14 to km 31+100. It is envisaged to patch holes, deformities in the pavement with a thick asphalt mixture with an average thickness of 4 cm, machine milling, shaping, cleaning, spillage for connection, laying, sealing, treatment with stone flour and so on.. activities for the repair of the road pavement local, as well as cutting of bushes and a young forest in the waitout of the road. At present, the possibility of providing the necessary funds from the budget of the Agency is being considered, which is informed and knows the state of the pavement. For road III-2001 there is a technical project for rehabilitation 4 km in the features of Vetovo from km 10+437 to km 14+116. However, it is from 2011 and it is necessary to update it. The opportunities at this stage are to maintain the road through ongoing repairs and to look for opportunities for the inclusion of funds in the 2019 Agency's 2019 programme of Road Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u198	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Here you are, Mr. Abase, you have the opportunity to reply. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but this response does not really satisfy either me or the residents of Vetovo Municipality, because what you have said are good wishes that the residents of the municipality have heard for many years, but de facto some major repair of this road is not enough anyway. What you are saying will eventually be included in the 2019 programme, unfortunately, the residents have been hearing it for several years, but it never comes to realization. My deep desire is to confirm the words of Mr. Tsvetanov, who said that you do not share the regions, that you treat all regions with the same care, because not only this time, but the third-class road network in Northeastern Bulgaria is under all criticism. I very much hope that what you promised for 2019 will, at least this time, be included in the construction program of the Regional Road Management Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u200	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Here's your coat, Minister Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u201	Dear Mr. Abase, I strongly confirm Mr. Tsvetanov's words that I will not share and I would never allow myself to share the areas. On the contrary, North Bulgaria is a priority for me and the means needed to repair all the road sections for which there is information in the Road Infrastructure Agency are worth what the state budget, the Agency or any additional funds from European programmes cannot provide. We make a priority effort in the toughest areas to spend money and make repairs. At the moment, the Agency is doing repairs in many places in the country, on many of the road sections of the Republican road network, so it is also my desire to have funds and next year to be able to make the way through Vetovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let me thank Mrs. Petya Avramova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions addressed to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. He will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning overdue liabilities of/to the National Health Insurance Fund to/from foreign countries and funds. Here you are, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Ananiev, as you know, the amount of the overdue liabilities of the Health Fund to foreign countries and funds at the end of 2017 is 115 million. lv. It is mainly to funds from Germany, Austria, France, Britain and Belgium. At the same time, only 73 million are envisaged in the budget of the Health Fund for 2018. BGN, of which 4 million are for the treatment of citizens of the European Union in Bulgaria and the rest for the treatment of insured Bulgarians abroad. In view of these figures it is not clear whether the estimated amount of funds will not create problems for the treatment abroad of health-insured Bulgarians, as well as tensions and claims already this year from the countries to which we have obligations. Now we're almost at the end of the year and the picture should be clear. I do not have any information on the existence of a repayment plan for these obligations and any meetings and negotiations for their possible deferral. It is also interesting to note that at the end of June 2018, the overdue claims of the Health Insurance Fund from foreign countries and funds are 754 thousand. leva. It is an interesting fact that there are also foreign cases, foreign health funds that are obliged to Bulgaria. In the context of the above, please answer the following questions. Does it concern you and is it a problem that the amount of the outstanding liabilities of the Health Insurance Fund to foreign companies and funds? Is there a problem with payments by the Health Insurance Fund for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens abroad and claims made to the Health Insurance Fund by foreign funds and countries? What is the expected amount of funds for the treatment of citizens of the European Union in Bulgaria and for the treatment of health-insured Bulgarians abroad for 2018? What will be your proposal for the 2019 budget? How do you see the steps to reduce in the future the payments of the National Health Insurance Fund to foreign funds, on the one hand, and how will Bulgaria collect the money from the overdue debts to the Health Insurance Fund from other funds of foreign countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u205	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, in relation to the question you have asked and about the overdue liabilities of the National Health Insurance Fund to/from foreign countries and funds, I provide you with the following information: The first question. Pursuant to the Health Insurance Act and the entries of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems and the relevant bilateral agreements, the NHIF guarantees with its budget the health insurance rights of persons insured in the NHIF in their stay or residence on the territory of other Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, Switzerland, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro and the citizens insured in those countries during their stay or residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under the rules for the coordination of social security systems exceed the budgetary benchmark for this type of payment by the NHIF, and as of 31 December 2017, the total value of outstanding claims by other countries amounted to 259 million. 111,000. 300 leva. The second question. The funds adopted by the Budget Act of the NHIF for 2018 for health insurance payments for medical care provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems are in the amount, as you said, of 73 million. lv. By Decision of the Supervisory Board of 19 March 2018, the NHIF Payment Plan for 2018 in accordance with the rules for the coordination of social security systems adopted by the Law on the Budget of the Cassate for 2018, funds are planned in the direction of payments as follows: four million 45 of the Health Insurance Act for foreign insured persons during their stay or residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and 69 million. lv. reimbursement of expenditure incurred under the rules on the coordination of social security systems for persons insured in the NHIF during their stay or residence in another country. The planning of health insurance payments for medical care provided in accordance with the rules on the coordination of social security systems in the three-year general budget forecast 2019? 2021 aims to repay all outstanding liabilities to other countries during the three-year period under the European Regulations on the Coordination of Social Security Systems. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would like to inform you that this is perhaps the most direct response, in the three-year budget forecast for the next three years are estimated at 160 million. lv. Unlike those for this year " 73. In this way, we will clear all the obligations we have to the Member States of the European Union. Question three, maybe I'll answer the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u206	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. You have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. With so many quoted figures, it is difficult for me to deal with this issue, but I assure you that I will read the shorthand very carefully and I will clarify the matter. The general deficit of the National Health Insurance Fund is over a billion liabilities to private and public hospitals. I may be wrong by collecting the sum of all mechanically, but my concerns come from this debt to the Casa and internal debt to hospitals. The fact that you provide for the clearance of obligations to foreign health insurance banks is good so that these foreign banks and hospitals can trust the Bulgarian insurance system and, when a Bulgarian goes there, do not look at it with suspicion like the poor relative in Europe. I'm sure you'll answer how you intend to get the money from those who owe us. Mr. Minister, I'm also asking this question in the context of what happened. When we established when the public found that the Bulgarian National Insurance Fund had obligations to foreign banks, then the government reacted very strongly and was accused of the person who leaked the information. A worthy man.. the former director of the National Health Insurance Fund was accused of lying, but it turned out he was right. I want it to be heard from this tribune that Bulgarians have nothing to fear and that when in Bulgaria they cannot be helped and offered adequate health care, they will receive adequate health care abroad and the Bulgarian state, which has an obligation under the Constitution and by law to do so, will not abdicate from this obligation. Thank you for what you will answer on the third question, and I assure you that we will follow the processes carefully, because they are not in the interests of the opposition, but in the interests of the entire Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u208	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, the information about a billion liabilities of the Cashier to our medical facilities is not correct. Perhaps you mean the debts, that is, the overdue payments to hospitals, but this is another topic... and they are not even so, somewhere around 500 million are all. But, anyway, it's not the subject of our conversation. As for when our health system cannot provide the treatment of Bulgarian citizens in our country, you know that there is a Fund for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens abroad, there is also a Fund for the treatment of children abroad. That is, when we do not have the necessary treatment provided, there are rules to ensure the treatment of Bulgarian citizens. You asked how we would collect our duties? They are not so much in relation to Bulgaria's obligations outside, but we have established contacts with our partners who have to owe funds to the Bulgarian state. With them, we have an agreed payment schedule, so one part will be done by the end of the year, and most of it will be made next year. We've created the necessary organization in the National Health Insurance Fund. We are training staff who are able to have a continuous dialogue with our external counterparties, external banks, who will maintain a continuous connection with them and we hope that these problems that arise, both from us and from them, will be synchronized and deal with them in a timely manner. What is most important is that within the three years we will pay off all our debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. We're continuing with parliamentary control. A question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov concerning the unlawful actions of the manager of the Balneological Center (Balneological Centre) Kamena (Balneological Centre) and the public mood created by his actions in Velingrad Municipality. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Public tension!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u212	I understand, but either you've formulated not exactly the question, that's what it is. Thanks for fixing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u213	Yeah. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a long time ago. I have provided to your attention extensive material from the voters from Velingrad about the violations committed by the manager of the Balneological Center. In response, I received your assurance that you will take the necessary measures and corrective action to resolve the matter and order checks. Unfortunately, until now, mid-October, violations of good governance practices, labour legislation and psychological pressure by the manager of the designated establishment, Mrs. Irina Shumarova, continue. The actions of the lady in question, who is, notice, and vice-president of GERB, Velingrad, Vice-President of the Municipal Council, i.e. municipal councillor, President of Women-GERB, have forced for a short period more than 30 employees to leave the balneocomplex, including under the express pressure and request of the governor, of key positions: physical therapists, chiropractors, hotel manager, manager of the medical center, head of security, chefs, administrators and so on. They are appointed employees without sufficient qualifications and, unfortunately, with almost double remuneration. Minister, I am developing the issue by telling you that under Bulgarian law under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, a municipal councillor cannot receive remuneration, can participate in the management of companies, but without receiving remuneration. The lady in question received 96 minimum salaries in nine months. She was ready to pick up another 12 per month minimum wage. She's passing the Prime Minister's salary. So I ask you: what are the results of your inspection? I am already developing the question: when will you release the lady in question before I refer to the prosecution for the fact that she also concluded a contract with the NSI, without having any doctor at the time of a contract in the institution, that is to say she has committed a composition of fraud, or then? That's why I insist that you answer me, and depending on your answer, I will prepare my reply as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u214	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Velkov! Madam President, I'm going to ask you to give me a little more opportunity to respond. In my next two questions, the answers are shorter and clearer. It's gonna take a little more time here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u216	Okay, we've given Mr. Velkov almost a minute more anyway. You will, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u217	Immediately after receiving the signal of Mr. Velkov with allegations of violations committed by the Executive Director of the Balneological Centre That's why I'm informing you. The Balneological Center "Kamena" EAD functions as a tourist complex, category "three stars." The complex has a hotel part, restaurant, day and summer bar and spa center. This is how the departments are divided, according to the functional structure, and each of the three departments has a supervisor. Separately in 2016 to implement the Programme for Prevention and Rehabilitation of the National Insurance Institute was established Medical Center "Kamena" EOD, whose capital is 100% owned by the Balneological Center "Kamena" EAD. There are qualified medical staff, consisting of two doctors and three nurses working in the center, using part of the hotel's base and some of the procedures prescribed to the guests under the NSI program are performed by the spa center of the hotel. Two audit commitments were made by the Internal Audit Unit at the Ministry of Health in 2018. As a result of the audits it has been found: deficiencies have been observed in the initial stage of the work of the current team of the Board of Directors. For example, the Board of Directors did not draw up the Programme for the Company's Activity for the period 2017 - 2020, Rules of Employment of the Board of Directors and the Regulations for the Selection of Suppliers have not been updated. Furthermore, during the verification visits, findings were made that during the period 1 June 2017. The newly appointed employees of the company are 23, and the exempted employees are 18. Of the exempted workers and employees, 11 have left on the grounds of art. 325, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code by mutual agreement, three on the basis of art. 325, para. 1, t. 5 of the Labour Code due to the return of the holder, one on the basis of art. 325, para. 1, t. 4 of the Labour Code with completion of a certain work, two on the basis of art. 71, para. 1 of the Labour Code.. termination without notice before expiry of the test contract, and one on the basis of art. 330, para. 2, p. 6 of the Labour Code. Disciplinary dismissal. By Order No 7 of 11 May 2018, the Chief Accountant of "Kamena" EAD was released on the basis of art. 328, para. 2 of the Labour Code, according to which employees in the management of the undertaking can be early released with notice. In response to the audit findings, the Board of Directors, composed of three experienced economists, reported to me the following explanations and facts, namely: Changes in the composition of the staff structure are due to seasonality, the recruitment of personnel due to the specifics of the work. Additional factor for change in administrative staff are the differences found in the existing functional structure and in-depth timetable compared to the current good practices for the necessary units and staff in the hotel and restaurant business. The reason for the release of the chief accountant is related to the presentation by him of contradictory and inconsistent information on the financial and accounting situation of the company for 2016 and 2017. Therefore, a decision of the Board of Directors, as reflected in the 2018 Protocol, established a functional structure and an official-state timetable. Velingrad is a major tourist centre and local employers face a huge problem with finding qualified personnel. In order to attract staff to the key positions of the hotel, the amount of remuneration has been updated. This has not been self-inflicted, but after the introduction of a scale of minimum and maximum remuneration per group of posts, which has been reflected in the new official timetable. It should be taken into account that the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors of all companies EAD with the principal Ministry of Health is determined according to the value of fixed tangible assets, the number of staff, profitability, the financial result, the change in the added value of one employed, the service of the liabilities. Monthly remuneration shall be determined by an assessment formed on the basis of the results of the quarter reported on the statutory indicators and criteria. After the completion of each quarter, depending on the values achieved by it of the statutory indicators and criteria, the prom estimate shall be calculated and the monthly remuneration for the reporting quarter shall be revalued. There's an even more detailed explanation of wage formation, but I'm gonna miss it because I'm gonna lose a lot of time. There is evidence that the exempted employees have brought claims against the company, with the conclusions whether their rights have been violated and whether there are violations of the Law upon their release can be made only after the judgment on labour disputes has been given and entered into force. If there have been violations by the management of the BCC, the Minister of Health, as a principal, could impose sanctions provided for in the contract for the award of the management of the company. With regard to non-compliance with the statutory deadlines for the provision of the three-year programme for the company's activities for the entire duration of the management contract, the main reason for delay is: the dismissal of the chief accountant, the adoption and validation of a new functional structure and an official-state timetable. At this stage, the Ministry of Health has a detailed and financially binding programme for the development of the activities of the Bulgarian National Centre for Health and Health, Velingrad, for the period 2018 - 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Perhaps you'll continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u219	The most important part may remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u220	All right, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u221	The company's plans reflected a number of positive intentions related to the development of the three strategic directions in the activities.. rest, relaxation in the spa center, balneorechabilization, treatment and prevention, corporate events. For the period 2018 - 2020 the Board of Directors predicts the company's current profit to increase as follows: 2018 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's 238 grand. It is envisaged to expand the package offered services by the Medical Center. Reserves in the activity are sought in the preservation of balneumuel and medical activities, as well as improving the quality of service by optimizing spent resources for the long-term effect of rehabilitation services and rest. The analysis of the company's financial performance as of 30 June 2018 showed that the positive trends of the previous two years were maintained. As of 31 December 2017, the profit amounted to 140 thousand. lv. At 32 thousand in 2016, or an increase of 108 thousand. lv. Total equity for 2017 has been increased by 126 thousand. lv. and reaches 2 million. 189,000. lv. At 2 million. 063 lv. in 2016. The subscribed capital as of 31 December 2017 is 1 million. 624 thousand. lv. and remains unchanged from the previous reporting period. As of 31 December 2017, the company's cash was 764 thousand. BGN, which allows the company to cover its current obligations and not to have any overdue obligations to suppliers. The company also has no obligations towards banking institutions. The established standards and financial rules for management of the company with principal Ministry of Health provides additional guarantee that the medical establishment works effectively at this stage. In addition, it can be noted that according to NSI data their employees carried out two inspections in 2018 in the company. According to the Conventional Protocol No CP-5-12-00440489 of 24 July 2018, it was found that for the procedures carried out.. underwater gymnastics in an indoor and outdoor swimming pool, dates and hours are indicated, there are signed...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u222	Mr. Minister, let's stop by the underwater gymnastics after all. I think that's enough information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u223	It's the last sentence I read, and I'm leaving for the chair. I assure you that, if necessary, as a principal when finding deviations from financial stability and management rules will take immediate action to change the composition of the Board of Directors or the measures provided for in the contract for the award of management, in order to improve the management of the BCC "Kamena" EAD. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u224	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Velkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u225	Thank you. Dear Minister, I cannot say that I am not pleased with your answer. I'm amazed at your answer! I don't know who makes such inquiries, we're lenient enough to your employees, but you haven't answered my question at all. I am telling you that this manager is in violation of the Bulgarian legislation under the Law on Local Government and Local Administration and she is not entitled to receive remuneration. And I am telling you that in the months of July, August and September 2017 he receives 12 minimum salaries per month! In April, May and June, 12 minimum salaries per month! And now she was ready to take so much more, and here you are trying to tell me that everything was fine and that the Board of Directors was from experienced economists. I'll afford it, Madam Chairman, if you'll excuse me: come on! There's no such thing. What profit are you referring to, Minister, as this lady on a 30-year-old basis, charging 4%, charged 1%? From there comes, naturally, an increase in profit, values of fixed tangible assets. In addition, you know very well how to increase profit, only in an artificial way. Please, what strategic directions are you talking about, both profit and profit?! If it wasn't for the NSI contract, what profit would you make? I tell you again: on February 22nd this year there was no doctor in the restaurant and you enter into a contract with the NSI, and this is described in the NSI check. I caused that check. I suggest you, Minister, think about it. You offer us one, second, third model for the development of health care in Bulgaria, you can not deal with the arbitrariness in one place and no establishment. There are seminars of GERB. Shall I tell you that there is a prosecutor's test against the Executive Director for unsaved procedures for conducting, that there have been cases brought, that Mrs. regularly, here, for June-December 2017 she spent 3,000. lv. for representative expenses and loading of my personal car, and for that I gave you documents. It's as politicized as you can imagine. Again, call me by the end of the day and tell me you've released her. I won't stop here, I promise you. This for me is an action that will follow and next week, be so good to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u226	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u227	Thank you, Madam President. He's extremely emotional, Mr. Velkov. I'm starting to think there's something else moving it, and maybe I can guess what it is, but that's another topic. I want to tell you that I sent a letter to the principal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u228	Maybe love. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u229	Depends on who you're with, though. Not with her. [[Radio.]] My point is that I sent a letter to the executive director, quoting art. 34, para. 7 of the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, where it is written about what you said, and I have set a time limit for it to recover that money. So stay calm!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u230	So there's been a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u231	Mr. Velkov, wait for the answer. Let's follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u232	This violation, Mr. Velkov, was done by the previous one, so he'll pay more. And you know who the previous one is, don't you? Now I don't want to say who it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u233	I don't care.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u234	You're interested. You're interested because you're... Anyway, I'm not gonna keep talking. An organization has been created, what is by law will be fulfilled. You can be sure she'll get her money back, but others will get their money back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u235	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question to you, and he is asked by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Anelia Klisarova about the ongoing problems related to the structure and organization of the work in the regional health inspections. Dr. Timchev, obviously you'll be the one to ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in answering our question from April this year concerning the problems in regional health inspections, you have made a commitment to correct the incredible differences found and recorded by your team in the structure, organisation, functioning and pay of the work in these structures. You also promised common rules on the basis of which all regional health inspections work. What, though, is fulfilled by what was promised to date? Are there uniform internal rules for civil servants' salaries in these structures? Are the actions necessary and secured financially clear? Unfortunately, the information is that to date the situation is the same and there are no changes. The debates on the 2019 budget will be overcome. Will the six-year inaction of the Directorate of Budget and Finance be overcome with your ministry? My question to you: have you planned and what means to adequately raise the salaries of employees in regional health inspections, including funds for the planned increase after the annual evaluation of public administration employees? Do you have a final vision for new regulations in regional health inspections and does it provide for the closure of laboratories and another reduction of experts and specialists on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u237	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Doctor Timchev! The allocation of the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018 under the secondary authorising officers with a budget of all 28 regional health inspections provided for an increase in staff resources from 1 January 2018 to the end of the calendar year of 18%. The trend for increasing the remuneration of workers in regional health inspections is also sustainable in 2019. In line with the government's income policy, a 10% increase in staff costs is envisaged in the Ministry of Health Budget for 2019. The increase in the basic monthly salaries of public administration officials is regulated in the State Administration Staff Regulations and provides for an increase in the basic monthly salaries to be made for all administration officials depending on the annual assessment for the performance of the post in the previous calendar year in a percentage ratio of up to 15% depending on the employee's assessment. With regard to the question of whether there is a final vision for new R &amp; D regulations, whether the closure of laboratories and a further reduction of experts and specialists on the ground is envisaged, I would like to inform you that it is working to optimize costs and business processes without affecting the quality of the activity carried out. During the year meetings were held with representatives of all regional health inspections, which outlined the main problems which will be addressed in an operational plan after coordination. I would like to assure you that changes in the structure and organisation of the work of RGI will be implemented only in the context of constructive dialogue and discussion, without having a negative impact on employees in the relevant administrative units and on the effectiveness of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Ilian Timchev has the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, when? When will the reform take place in this part and the structure of the common part of the field of health? What you have told me is that these regulations have been working so far, and changes must be made there. I quoted your words: incredible differences in the structure, organization, functioning and pay of work in these structures. So in all four things I've listed you, you have to make changes. It is your responsibility, in my opinion, to keep the peace in this structure. I want to assure you that the system employees are on strike. If you do not take urgent measures and do not engage your team to carry out this reform, they will go out again to protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u241	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u242	Dear Dr. Timchev, we are working on all the tasks you mentioned right now. Hopefully, by New Year's Eve and with the new budget, things will be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u243	Thank you, too. There is a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova concerning necessary emergency measures for the state centers of haemodialysis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ananiev, the cause of our question to you are the frequent cases of tragic incidents in the Department of Nephrology and Hemodialysis Treatment at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. It is known that in the whole country there are private centers and departments of hemodialysis, whose material base is frankly better. Our question to you: what measures will the Ministry of Health take to improve the material and technical base in all state centers of haemodialysis, as well as to improve the quality of this medical service and prevent more tragic cases in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u245	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here you are, dear Minister. An actual question, in a real sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u246	Yeah, really. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Doctor Timchev, at the end of 2017 there were 3627 patients on haemodialysis maintenance treatment and 136 patients on peritoneal dialysis, or a total of 3763 patients, of whom 1956 men and 1807 women. The procedures are carried out in 80 dialysis structures and 60 of them are revealed in state and municipal hospitals, and the remaining 20 are either compartments in private hospitals for hospital care, or individual hospitals within the meaning of art. 28a of the Law on Medical Institutions. In the Law on Medical Institutions, the provision of art. 100, para.1 gives the state and municipalities the opportunity to finance state or municipal hospitals through targeted subsidies approved by the State Budget Act and municipal budgets. In accordance with art. 55, para. 2 of Decree No 332 of the Council of Ministers of 22 December 2017 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The Ministry of Health may provide capital funds to the state institutions of commercial companies and to the medical institutions of commercial companies with mixed state and municipal capital participation. In view of the need to improve the material and technical base for dialysis activity, the Ministry has foreseen and has already signed the contracts by the end of 2018 for capital funds of 4 million. 890 thousand. lv. for the purchase of haemodialysis equipment, water cleaning systems and haemodialysis beds for a total of 29 public health establishments and commercial companies. In addition, seven medical establishments are provided with means to repair the haemodialysis wards in total of 891 thousand. lv. Specially for the Hospital "St. Petka" JSC were awarded 180 thousand. lv. to purchase new haemodialysis apparatus, a water cleaning system and new haemodialysis beds. Within the limits of the budget opportunities of the Ministry of Health for the relevant year, we are looking for effective approaches and opportunities to step up the material base in state-owned medical institutions. To this end, opportunities for absorption of European funds and funds will also be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u247	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Here you go, Dr. Timchev. Two minutes for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The service system and the organization of these patients' access has been welded since that time. I don't know if you've seen a patient who needs treatment like this, and the environment they've been accepted into. In addition to the need for money in this system, we also need an organization of access to these patients. And it doesn't happen that when the apparatus is broken in a particular hospital, he can't use this service on the same day in another hospital next door. Don't let it get to the point of running hospitals and leading to such tragic accidents. It's a case. Many cases may appear in this system. It's slender, it lasts in time. It is commendable that you immediately initiated the verification procedure... how this incident happened and so on. But I'm also impressed with the decision. What criteria did you choose the wards and hospitals in which you will put these capital costs into? I am impressed that the Pleven University Hospital is not included in this list. If you're in my shoes, I think my question is clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u249	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Minister Ananiev, please answer the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u250	You know, Dr. Timchev, that the Ministry of Health doesn't have much of a resource for capital expenditure. Nevertheless, the government at the end of September approved an additional 8 million. $100,000. lv. capital expenditure of the Ministry. As I mentioned earlier, nearly five million of that eight million and a hundred thousand of us predicted them for the hemodialysis wards. That is, we felt that this is really a priority because we know this system very well. How did we determine the money? Each hospital makes a request for investment costs, capital costs and presents it to the Ministry of Health. Having determined that this would be a top priority, we have provided all 29 healthcare facilities with the necessary dialysis items. As I said just now, from the three types of costs we are making in these wards, we have not allocated any funds for hemodialysis for the Pleven Hospital, as it is currently not in difficulty, but at the same time in the budget for next year we have provided a significant resource for equipment that the hospital has been waiting for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-12.u251	Thank you, dear Minister. Allow me to thank Mr. Kiril Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We're done for this week. Next regular meeting on 17 October 2018 at 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
