ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Today, as the first item, we have voted: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO REPEAT THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 29 MARCH 2012 ON THE TERMINATION OF THE NUCLEAR CENTRE OF THE PLAYER 28 of 2012 with the Importers of Cornellia Ninova and a group of People's REPRESENTATIVES on 1 June 2018 and a draft Decision on the RE-INFORMATION OF THE PROPERTY ON THE SEARCH OF PROPOSALS FOR THE BUILDING OF A NICE "BELENE" JOINT WITH A STRATEGIC INVESTIST, A MARKET AND WITHOUT THE PORTING OF A PORTATION, ALEXANDER NENKOV, DANAIL KIRILOV, JULIAN ANGELOV, ISCREN VORGELINOV AND BORGELOV ON 5 June 2018. The report of the Energy Commission will present to us the people representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision repealing a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. 28 from 2012 No 854 02 29, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2018 and a draft decision on the renewal of actions in the search for opportunities for the construction of the nuclear power plant, jointly with a strategic investor, on the market principle and without granting a state guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the NPP project from the project NPP in a separate project company, No 854-02-30, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 5 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 6 June 2018, the Energy Commission examined, discussed and voted on the draft decisions mentioned above. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, and Mrs. Miroslava Hristova Director of Legal Department. Following a unanimous vote on the agenda, the Energy Commission decided to discuss the draft decisions together, due to the fact that they are settling the same matter, but to hold the vote separately. The Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev read the proposed draft decisions and gave the MPs the opportunity to address the issues discussed. During the discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) and expressed concerns that the draft decision proposed by the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB and the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) restricts the actions of the executive in connection with the implementation of the NPP project. Belene, concerning the more detailed explanation of the concept of the. National Representative Ivan Genov expressed his opinion on the need to repeal the National Assembly Decision of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of the nuclear plant at the site of Belene. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u4	...with which the realization of the NPP project will be started. According to the MP Ivan Genov this would give a clear signal of the serious intentions of the current government to take action to launch the project. Minister Temenuzhka Petkova expressed a positive opinion on the draft decision on the renewal of the actions for the search for opportunities for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" jointly with a strategic investor, on a market principle and without the granting of a state guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities for the NPP project "Belene" in a separate project company of the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB and "United Patriarchs." People's representative Iskren Veselinov took an attitude and voiced strong support to the draft decision of the MP GERB parliamentary group and to the "United Patriarchs" because it meets the current parameters of the NPP project. After the discussion is concluded and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee shall propose to the National Assembly: 1. With 8 votes in favour of the National Assembly, 2 votes against the National Assembly and 8 votes abstentions, not to adopt a draft decision repealing a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 from 2012 No 854 02 29, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2018. 2. With 16 votes for the project, 2 votes for the project and without abstention to adopt a draft decision to resume the actions for the search for opportunities for the construction of the nuclear power plant, together with a strategic investor, on a market principle and without granting a state guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the project NPP. Belene, in a separate project company No 854-02-30, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 5 June 2018. The Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev took no part in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I will give the floor first to colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to present the draft decision, then to colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u6	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I want to read to you is the motives, because I am convinced that not all of you have read them, but I think they are important to understand why we are making this decision. The NPP project began in 1981. After a number of studies, with Decree No 9 of 20 March of the Council of Ministers, the site of Belene was established for the construction of a second nuclear power plant in Bulgaria. Its location is 3 km from the town of Belene, Pleven district, and 11 km from the town of Svishtov, Veliko Tarnovo district. For 37 years the project "Belene" had three first holes, two stops and two restarts. A number of state funds have been invested in it. Its realization is a guarantee for a strong economy of our country in the field of energy and its taking a well-deserved place in the Balkans as an exporter of electricity. The voice of the people is about the realization of the nuclear power plant, declared in a referendum in 2013. The failure to complete the project for the second nuclear power plant in Bulgaria is the result of an inconsistent position by the legislative and executive authority of our country. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has always been convinced that the NPP of Belene should work because it sees the project as a national issue and in the long term for a stable and developing Bulgarian economy and is a matter of national security. The European Union strongly supports nuclear energy as the only way to reduce harmful emissions, especially in the context of the new, stricter standards approved at the end of April 2017 by the European Commission for emissions from coal plants to air. Regardless of what an extension of the deadline for the implementation of the new rules that have entered into force since 2021, Bulgaria will negotiate, sooner or later, unfortunately, coal plants will probably be closed, not only because of the bans, but also due to the leakage of their technical resources. It is in the context that the European Union officially identifies coal plants as major air pollutants that must make huge investments to green their productions and to comply with the new European rules. On the other hand, electricity from renewable energy sources is very expensive and has a erratic character, and this makes it difficult to manage the electricity system. Bulgaria's hydropower potential is almost completely absorbed and has no opportunities for new large-scale projects for hydropower plants. The potential of wind parks is limited and this is quite natural and logical because of the characteristics of the wind as a natural resource. The fact is that the wind potential of Bulgaria is extremely low. The energy from the sun will also not give a universal solution to Bulgaria's energy problems now and in the future. Photovoltaic parks also have limited capacity given the potential map of photovoltaic electricity in Bulgaria. In summary of the above concerning renewable energy sources, let us also ask the rhetorical question: How many hydropower plants, wind power and photovoltaic parks should be built in Bulgaria in order to achieve the energy potential of a nuclear power plant? And to add, imagine what area these photovoltaic plants will occupy. A very important factor is that all these sources cannot provide reliable electricity 24 hours 7 days a week throughout the year, which is particularly important for the whole economy. Moreover, the fact is that nuclear power plants emit less harmful emissions than other types of power plants, including gas. Bulgaria has traditions of an exporter of electricity, and the electricity consumption in the region will increase in the coming years and this requires the construction of new capacities, something that is written in the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and which we have already spoken and proved with numbers. Given the geographical position of the country and the links with the other electricity systems in the Balkans and the constructed electricity lines, Bulgaria can play a strategic role in the regional electricity market. The Ministry of Energy ordered the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to analyze the possibilities for the completion of the NPP project and it made it clear that the most important factors are related to the following: - the increase in the prices of base electricity in Bulgaria and in the region in the coming years; - construction costs; - financing, including interest; - state participation; - the new European stricter standards that will lead to the closure of coal power plants; - Base electricity deficit in Bulgaria and in the region - according to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences report after 2030 there will be such a deficit. I can even tell you the number about 15 billion. Kilowatt hours will be that deficit. According to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the worst-case scenario is if nothing is done on the equipment and on the site. This is equivalent to the loss of the entire resource invested so far, and this is unacceptable. It is also important to point out that the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences confirms categorically that there is a real possibility of integrating a new base power with about 1500 megawatts. It is clear that such base power can only be a nuclear power plant. After 2030 and after 2035 for base operation, new capacities up to 1670 megawatts and so on and so forth are required. This project, I mean the Belene Project, is in an advanced phase. There has been a long way to the administrative and legal regimes, detailed development plans, decisions of the municipal councils of the respective municipalities, coordination opinions of all state authorities, approval of projects, licensing of the site, construction permit, assessment of environmental impact, production of equipment and taking the necessary action on its delivery. This puts him in the position of 5 to 10 years ahead of all other projects in the beginning phase of the region. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' report outlines two main approaches to the realization of the assets of NPP "Belene" is a sale and the other is a search for a strategic investor. The first option studies show that the sale of assets can also be very difficult to carry out at a loss, indicating a number of justified reasons. By the way, and in Minister Petkova's report, this option was assessed as selling the reactors almost at the price of scrap. State participation options provide significantly better opportunities for the viability of the project, which presupposes the conclusion of a state share in a possible future project company. Another basis for the State's participation in this project is the obligations of the State arising from international agreements with regard to nuclear risk and the provision of funds for radioactive waste management and decommissioning. It is particularly important that there will be an opportunity for long-term planning of the price of electricity. Today, our country has equipment for a nuclear power plant and a site in which more than 3 billion have been invested. BGN, which puts on the agenda the issue of the realization of the assets of NPP "Belene." The time frame according to the report is that if the project starts working in 2019, then in 2027 the NPP will be ready and will start producing and feeding electricity to the energy system of Bulgaria in 2027. Now is the time for state institutions to unite in the name of the interests of Bulgaria and its future for an energy independent country. A clear and firm position on the NPP project is needed. Financing is a matter of government decision and there are different options for this. Which of them will be elected depends, above all, on the assessment of the Council of Ministers, based on a thorough and thorough analysis, all the more so that it is also within the powers of the Council of Ministers. In conclusion: The arbitration case under the Project "Belene" closed nearly two years ago. According to that decision, the State acquired key equipment with a long production cycle for the construction of a nuclear power plant with two energy blocks. From the time of the Court of Arbitration's ruling, unfortunately, the state has been idle. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' report reiterated the conclusions of the 2012 HSBC and RWE reports from 2009 and, by name, that there are scenarios where Belene is profitable. In this sense, the additional analysis seems to have been in order to buy time from the Ministry of Energy, but delaying any decision for Belene is the worst possible solution. The project is getting old, the equipment is also, the chances of any positive outcome for Bulgaria are decreasing by every day lost. In this regard and on the basis of art. 3, para. 1 of the Energy Act, which reads: The state policy in the energy sector is implemented through the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision submitted by us and oblige the Minister of Energy to implement its powers under art. 4, para. 1 of the Energy Act, namely the Energy Policy of the country is conducted by the Minister of Energy. In this regard, we suggest the following: Project! DECISION repealing a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 terminating the construction of a nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. 28 from 2012 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Announces decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 from 2012 2. Instructs the Energy Minister to organise, coordinate and monitor negotiations with potential investors and equipment manufacturers. 3. Instructs the Energy Minister to take action to develop a procedure for selecting a strategic investor and to propose opportunities for structuring the project by 31 October 2018. 4. Instructs the Minister of Energy to periodically inform the National Assembly of the actions taken and the concrete results of the negotiations under way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. An importer of the second project? You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to read our draft decision and then justify why we have adopted it in this way and what has led to this decision of ours. The solution we propose is: "1." Instructs the Minister of Energy to resume action on the demand for opportunities to build the NPP "Belene" jointly with a strategic investor, on a market principle (without contracts for compulsory buying-in of energy, without preferential prices, without contracts for difference, without corporate guarantees and/or other non-market mechanisms for guaranteeing investment) and without granting a State guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the NPP project "Belene" in a separate project company. 2. Instructs the Energy Minister to organise, coordinate and monitor negotiations with potential investors and equipment manufacturers. 3. Instructs the Energy Minister to take action to develop a procedure for selecting a strategic investor and to propose opportunities for structuring the project by 31 October 2018. 4. Instructs the Minister of Energy to periodically inform the National Assembly of the actions taken and the concrete results of the negotiations under way. 5. Recommends the Council of Ministers to take action to repeal Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012 in order to conduct negotiations with potential investors and equipment manufacturers in the cases set out in paragraph 1. 1 conditions. Colleagues, the situation we are in is extremely responsible and I believe that the decision that we are going to make today should not be justified on political bias should not be justified on who wants to please which country more or less, but to find the most sensible, most appropriate solution, given the situation we are in. What is it? We can talk a lot about the history of the project, why and how we have come to this, but ultimately we have to take into account the objective circumstances in which to make the most forward-looking decision. I therefore hope that today we will have a meaningful debate, not provoked by political bias, but indeed as responsible statesmen, who must make the right decision to ensure that either the construction or the failure to build this plant does not lead to the weight and destruction of future consumers. In 2016, we have a ruling of the International Arbitration Court, which ordered the state to pay for the equipment ordered in 2006, and Bulgaria paid nearly 1 billion. 200 million. lv. It was the Atomstroyexport, after which last year this equipment with a long production cycle was delivered, preserved and stored to this day on the site of the nuclear power plant Belene. A few months ago, we entrusted the Minister of Energy, for which I thank her, and the entire Ministry, for the comprehensive report they presented to the Energy Commission, namely: what are the different options and who would be the most reasonable, most appropriate with what the State has invested so far to do with the necessary equipment, which to this day we will store and in the future we will store on the territory and on the site of the NPP of Belene. Of all the options that were presented, one was certainly the most negative one to do nothing. Because here, both from colleagues and from outside, from the protesters, it is heard that we almost have to cross off what we have invested, and that is nearly 3 billion. lv. to the Bulgarian taxpayer, and to end this topic. Me and my colleagues, our vision is that this is the most wrong option in this situation. Why? You see that there is a manifestation of investor interest by several companies that are willing to explore the opportunities for realization of this project. What did we offer? We have proposed a draft decision which I dare say is quite cautious. Some say it does not give the Council of Ministers enough opportunity and the Minister of Energy to negotiate. Here I would like to highlight the history of the project, as it is not unambiguous, is not indisputable and has never been undisputed. We have approached, in our view, as rationally as possible, carefully as possible, giving parameters, clearly and precisely defined in point one of our decision, what conditions the future investor must meet. And since much is being commented on whether this project is necessary, isn't it necessary when 2004 - 2005 started this project, it has once again been said that in today's day we should have had a shortage and a need for this basic energy, it turns out that the reality of today is not what was predicted not just a few years ago. That is precisely why we have given very precise and clear frames. And we believe that if future investors have a serious desire and see serious economic and financial potential in this project, they would be willing to take the greater risk that we have also set in the negotiating opportunities between the minister and these future investors. I hope that we will support this decision as much as possible, with broader support. Let's not get ahead of ourselves without saying loud headlines about rebooting the project. We're not restarting anything. We're just giving a mandate in the next five months to do any research about what the real investor interest would be. We are not talking about the NPP project before 2012. Since we have already paid our equipment, we have one feature with the arrangements between the Bulgarian country and Atomstroyexport. From now on we can only structure a project that would have its financial and economic future. I hope that we will support the decision that we have tabled by our colleagues from GERB and the United Patriarchs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u9	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, may I ask you once again to present the decision in its entirety, including the basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u10	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the renewal of actions on the search for opportunities for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" jointly with a strategic investor, on the market principle and without granting a state guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the nuclear power plant "Belene" project into a separate project company The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister of Energy to resume action on the demand for opportunities to build the NPP "Belene" together with a strategic investor on a market basis (without contracts for compulsory buying-in of energy, without preferential prices, without contracts for difference, without corporate guarantees and/or other mechanisms for guaranteeing investment) and without granting a State guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the NPP project "Belene" in a separate project company. 2. Instructs the Energy Minister to organise, coordinate and monitor negotiations with potential investors and equipment manufacturers. 3. Instructs the Energy Minister to take action to develop a procedure for selecting a strategic investor and to propose opportunities for structuring the project by 31 October 2018. 4. Instructs the Minister of Energy to periodically inform the National Assembly of the actions taken and the concrete results of the negotiations under way. 5. Recommends the Council of Ministers to take action to repeal Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012 in order to conduct negotiations with potential investors and equipment manufacturers in the cases set out in paragraph 1. 1 Terms. "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. One addition to t. 1: s/or other non-market mechanisms to be. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, colleagues! Before I came to the point about what I insisted on and our group insisted yesterday in the Energy Commission, in order to give you my arguments, I would like to add to the arguments that Tasco Ermenkov gave about the need for new nuclear power. There's another very important argument nobody's talking about so far. I don't know if it's intentional or not, but he's not. These decisions, which were taken in Paris and the European Union last year, for removing coal plants from operation by 2030, are only part of the global decision to combat climate change. I can tell you that there will be another serious step in this direction for the next 20 years. That's what's gonna happen. In many countries, it is already spoken of. Elementary estimates show that for 500 thousand cars with an average annual mileage in order to move at all, a 1000 megawatt block is needed. Think about it, what happens when we switch to electric cars? There's talk of a new tech boom, but they're gone. This boom is somewhere in our heads, and reality is atomic energy. Specifically on the subject. The proposals of BSP and GERB are practically different at only one point. We are also 100% for market realization of the project. None of us feel that there should be a state guaranteed purchase of electricity, with non-market prices, with any compensation. Only maybe we could have the next five months to go back to those restrictions that are placed in clamps if it turns out that really in the talks with the investor will appear options that are significantly more profitable and make the project cheaper. These are the decisions that will help reduce interest rates on the loan, which will be taken for the implementation of the project. But let's leave it as a question for the future five months, whether or not it will be there. For us, the most important thing is, I repeat, the most important thing for the investors we are going to talk to is the single position that the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the major political powers that can potentially participate in the government of the state over the next 10 years. This is the best signal for investors. And if something prevents investors from showing up, wanting to participate in the realization of this project, this is the disagreements between institutions and political parties, which means a lack of any security in the future. Today we can start a project, come to power tomorrow people who want to stop it and continue the old song in a new voice. That can't be allowed. We must show that we are the united government, the National Assembly, the main political forces. In this respect, I do not understand, the only difference between our proposals is the annulment of the 2012 Decision. But look at the last point in your proposal: to recommend to the Council of Ministers to cancel the 2012 Decision. We recommend to him to cancel it, but we do not cancel ours, which supports this decision. There's some nonsense going on. If, after 20 days, the Council of Ministers cancels its 2012 decision, what will we do, although the 2012 National Assembly Decision, in reality, has no value, no power, because the construction of a new nuclear power is within the prerogatives of the Council of Ministers. However, instead of signaling that we recommend that the Council of Ministers cancel the 2012 Decision in order to start normal negotiations with investors and to support this, we cancel our 2012 decision, we leave this decision for some security that is not at all secure, no guarantee. We just don't want to admit that in 2012, we were wrong as National Assembly. That's it. So we are for this decision of the National Assembly. We believe that it would be logical to add to it the annulment of the 2012 National Assembly Decision because it is inappropriate in such a proposal to the Council of Ministers. I sincerely hope that, after all, in plenary, reason will prevail. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, I do not agree with much of what you have said. I won't distinguish the differences in this case. Rather, the aim would be to clarify some of the questions that you raised. Just so we're clear, I want to say that in our draft decision, market verification dominates. We say: we agree to check the market value, the market interest of this project. For this reason, you have come to an interpretation of the relationship between the decisions of the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Parliament cannot cancel its decision as it has been subject to a decision of the Council of Ministers. In order not to turn around in this formal circle, I say again: the mandate that we propose to give to the government is to carry out such a procedure or to conduct such negotiations, in which to establish whether this project is alive, is it justified economically, is there a serious, independent economic interest in its implementation and is therefore so specific about the supposes, without contracts for the purchase of energy, to see that it is seeking the pure economic value and vitality of this project. I think the option that we have proposed as a draft solution is a good approach and enables serious procedures to be carried out, I would say, to preface the implementation of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u16	Maybe you didn't need the back. However, Mr. Kirilov, you do not agree with everything I have said that I agree with your proposal. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't understand what you don't agree with. The only additional proposal was the annulment of the 2012 Decision. Otherwise, everything else is in the right direction. We are about the market principle to show, to prove that the project is viable. And you disagree with me because I agree with your proposal?! [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a weird line, but whatever. I repeat: it is pointless to refuse to take a decision to cancel the support of that decision of the Government in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u17	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Boychev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Against the background of the attempt of the National Assembly to reach consensus on this decision, which is good, I will try to get into the details of the two decisions and to do my own analysis, which I think we should do to the Bulgarian citizens, so that it is clear what the Bulgarian Parliament is making as a decision today. To the importers from GERB who propose this project for a solution. I believe that this draft decision, Madam Minister, expresses mistrust of you. With the first point you are proposing, with the intention to resume action on this project, the hands of the Council of Ministers and you are essentially tied in the negotiation process. It's a lack of confidence in the government. Because here you are talking to me about guaranteeing the project to be market, you wrote it once. Then you opened some parentheses and set up everything you could arrange. In the end, you start again, close the clamps, and without state guarantees. I'm asking, can anyone explain what this is without corporate warranty? What does that mean? Tomorrow, this project company you're making, isn't it the most normal thing for her to give some corporate bail? Is this coming in here, too? How can you go to negotiations and tie your hands!? Because, honourable colleagues of GERB, the negotiations will not be led by me or Tasco Ermenkov. They will be led by your government, which is with your mandate! Do you not trust him to make the negotiations and then provide options for realization of the project? Why do we have to open this clamp? So it should be clear that, essentially, with the first point of the Project for a decision that you propose, you tie the government's hands and place this project unable to be implemented. What else are you doing with this draft decision that needs to be made clear today? You refuse to support, you did not support in the Commission our proposal to repeal that decision of 29 March 2012 because it did not matter at all. How is there no significance to the decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly? But no, he was referring to that project. And that's why, because everyone is talking without reading and misleading people that we are making some decisions here to restart the project, I have taken out the State Gazette since March 2012. I will read you this decision, which you claim we should not cancel. It starts like this: "Shares the concerns of seismic risk on the site of Belene, especially after the Fukushima nuclear disaster, decided: 1. Supports the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to end the construction of the nuclear power plant at the site of Belene Because yesterday at the Commission, you explained to me that this was about that project at that time, and here it says: "The construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. "2." For the rational use of the constructed material and production bases of Belene, the government recommends that the government examine the technical and economic conditions for the construction in the coming years of a steam station on the site of the NPP of Belene. 3. Instructs the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism to do what is necessary to build a new nuclear power at the NPP site, using the equipment paid and obliges the Minister to inform us. So you want us to decide today to give the government a mandate to negotiate, and the first thing any major strategic investor will do is analyse the environment in Bulgaria in which it works and see that there is a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, which claims that the site is seismic, claims it stops building nuclear power. The first question I'm going to ask, if I'm on the investor's side, is: What exactly are you doing? Do you want to build the nuclear site, or do you not want to build it? I'm paying attention to these two things in this decision because again, very nice, fanfare, we're going, we're going. Madam Minister, GERB's decision I read in only one way a lack of confidence in you and a lack of confidence in the Bulgarian government, which must hold these negotiations and then present the options for realization, and then we will assess what is profitable and what is not profitable for the state. But to give you a mandate to negotiate and tie your hands to anything else, but this is blaming to me! And not to cancel Parliament's decision of March 2012 is hypocrisy, colleagues from GERB! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Boychev, I cannot agree with your claim that Parliament and the majority do not trust their own minister and the Council of Ministers. Because what we have proposed is based on what the Minister of Energy has submitted as a report to the Commission precisely on the subject. We have only added what the market principle means. A moment ago I said the historical reading of the project challenges us to be or rather provokes us to be as careful as possible. On the contrary, the Minister of Energy and the Council of Ministers also in 2012, and are now seeking support from the majority in parliament. Because yesterday it became very clear that these decisions do not de facto have such legal value to be binding for the Minister of Energy or for the Council of Ministers. They are recommended because the first point is recommended and in 2012 the decision is: And here it is right for the Minister of Energy and for the Council of Ministers to seek broader support, broader political support in parliament, so that this project can be implemented or not realized, to be extremely transparent. It's because of his bad reputation and bad history and because we've come this far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, I must tell you that our decision that we have tabled is due to the Minister's report and you can make a reference. The conclusions Mrs. Petkova proposes in her report, we have taken them from there and literally proposed them as solutions. And what you are doing is outside the report.. Ms. Petkova's proposals, because you are opening the clamp and you are saying without it, without it, and go negotiate! There's no other name but that it's a lack of trust! I say again, your government will be having these talks, your minister will be leading them, if you have a problem with it, that is another matter; if you do not trust, that is another matter too. But to send someone to talk and tie their hands, there is simply no way, in my opinion, in this decision, in this mandate that is being given, this project is being implemented. And apart from you, Mr. Lawyer, Mr. Nenkov, I have therefore read it, in the legal peace will continue to exist this decision from 2012, published in the Official Journal, and I do not know any foreign investor, whatever analysis he does, the first thing he will look at, and the first question he will put to you is this and he will ask you: I don't envy you, Madam Minister, with such support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u23	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor to state, first of all, the strong support of the United patriots for the development of nuclear energy in general and for the realization of the Belene nuclear power plant in particular. Our parties have always maintained this thesis. They were part of every campaign in defence of nuclear power, starting from the campaign against the closure of the III and IV bloc in Kozloduy, when we collected over half a million signatures missing in a previous parliament, continuing with the campaign for the referendum on the nuclear power plant "Belene" and adding to this the behaviour of our representatives in the National Assembly when, of course, we had representatives during the debates in plenary. First of all, we look at this project purely pragmatically and deideologically. I don't think he's some kind of blondie or blondie measure, Americanophile or Americanophobia. This must be a project that creates opportunities for our country, it must be a project that brings benefits to our country. In this respect, there is hardly anyone who can say anything against the realization of such a large-scale project, because it not only builds a category of people who are highly paid, store specialists in Bulgaria, it will create serious employment, create a serious product in general. As is known, the account is important and who will pay it, and in this regard I think that the project for a decision of GERB and "United patriots" is extremely correct. What do we want? We want to implement a pure market principle, we want a guarantee that the consumer will not pay from his pocket a more expensive price for this possible solution today and possibly a burden with different interests of this project. It is not a matter of mistrust to the minister or to the cabinet, these decisions remain for the future. They will now be led, I hope, by the next representatives of the executive power. The question is that someone somewhere along the chain doesn't think they can load the project in any way. This is the meaning of the decision of the National Assembly, which is generally purely political. It is clear that the National Assembly has no mandate, in a sense no powers for the development of new nuclear capacities. We declare our political will what, by the way, our opposition colleagues wanted, and we declare it quite monolithicly. In this regard, it is a bit ridiculous that the dispute over the annulment or non-recruitment of the previous decision is somewhat ridiculous. I ask my fellow Members, if we are going to cancel the 2012 Decision, why do you not propose that we cancel the 2013 Decision as well, say? It says exactly the same thing that the National Assembly supports the government's decision to suspend the Construction Project of a new nuclear plant on the site in Belene. All these decisions had the value of some kind of declaration, and that was their point. Yeah, we can look at them, cancel them, change them, but that doesn't make sense because they're stuck in history, right? What I think is our task today is that we think about the future and are united in this regard. Indeed, we are giving security to future investors, God forbid, to have them in the NPP of Belene, for that the National Assembly as a representative in practice of all the essential political forces represented in the political space of Bulgaria support the construction of this project. From this greater guarantee can hardly be given! The question was asked: what does a corporate guarantee stand for? It means that there is no, we do not allow, for example, NEK or BEH to guarantee that if the revenue of this plant is not sufficient, they will cover any differences between the revenues and the costs of the future investor. That's the point of that phrase. The State guarantee is something else that the State will not guarantee with the funds from the budget or otherwise the investment. So, by fully supporting the decision in his version, tabled by the United Patriarchs and GERB, we call not to hurt a meaningless debate. Because for me, the debate on these historical decisions from 2012 and 2013 may be very interesting, but in general I have attended countless such debates in the Chamber, where we start from this: That's pretty much how we can get through, I think, today's work day. Let's not slide down that plane. I think today can be very good as a sign in general for society and now the race which more, wants to build nuclear power plant is pointless. Let us support this option because it is constructive, conservative, gives the government the opportunity to carry out the necessary negotiations. It has had this opportunity before, but it gives this political support, with which it will sit more solidly at the negotiating table and at the same time tells clearly to future investors.. do not rely on any secret bonuses to the price, and the project must be supported by its own revenues. In fact, if it is realized, we will be as a partner country in this project, so that we have the greatest interest to have a return and those funds that are invested - almost 3 billion - to have income for the future generation of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a question for the esteemed Mrs. Petkova. You have not resigned yet, for CEZ you resigned it was not accepted, but obviously after the GERB proposal for a decision on the NPP project.Belene. Again emotionally you will have to resign after the ruling majority in the National Assembly does not trust you! Or whoever is in charge of both the executive power and the majority in parliament has decided to demonstrate that Bulgaria is still a republic with parliamentary rule, although Mr. Borisov himself does not respect the National Assembly and we have not seen him attend a plenary session. In fact, what is Mr. Borisov's current opinion on the construction of the project on the site of Belene? It was mentioned a decision of the National Assembly of 28 March 2012, which is to end the construction of a nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. There's a solution. Madam Minister, why don't you execute a decision of the National Assembly? According to this decision, the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism, in this case the Minister of Energy, after referring to the site of Belene, is obliged to inform the National Assembly about the actions in the construction and use of equipment and the construction in the following years of a steam-fired power plant at the NPP site of Belene and to inform the National Assembly about the construction of new nuclear power at the NPP site of Kozloduy. Madam Minister, one year you are a minister within this National Assembly, in this term how many times have you informed the National Assembly? Why are you not following the decisions of the National Assembly? My fellow Members, since this decision is not being implemented by your ministers, why do you keep it going?! At the same time, from the BSP for Bulgaria, we have offered you an elegant offer to get out of the confusional situation to cancel a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012. Perhaps I would not have reminded you of it and prove to you that you did not carry it out if you had not submitted a proposal for a decision and claim that you would not support anything else, which you are actually proposing again not to implement a decision of the National Assembly of March 2012. Why, colleagues? What is Boyko Borisov's opinion? Once again not to respect decisions of the National Assembly or to have consensus regarding the need to build a nuclear power plant on the site with all permissions ready for another first dig. And I will give you one single argument, supporting all the others heard so far: Bulgaria is threatened if the executive power does not now immediately start to work building the nuclear power plant in Belene (Belene) to fall off the map of the nuclear states. Because the V and VI block of the NPP employees will be extended by 10 years, there is an opportunity to extend their work by another 20 years. It is with the construction of the nuclear power plant in the next up to 10 years, as it appears, and the payment of the project itself in the next 20 years will enable us, when the resources of the units of the nuclear power plant are exhausted, to have cheap electricity again paid as an investment to ensure economic growth. We'll need him in decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has been given by the public representative Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! A reason for speech will be some speculation that mostly floats outside the room here some people definitely tried to express them. The first of these is for the seismic activity of the site of Belene, as this is a report on the additional geological surveys of the NPP of Belene, which was carried out by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and ordered by NEK in connection with additional provisions of the International Atomic Energy Agency. There are some interesting conclusions on this report. He says that on the site of the NPP site, Belene. In the last 24 million years, this site has been outside the object of intense tectonic processes. This is about the first myth that is seismically active. The second thing I want to talk about more is the economic justification of the project. Most likely, if I were in this House in 2012, I would vote against this decision. If you make the same decision today to freeze the project, I will again probably vote against it, as I suppose my colleagues at Ataka. I'll tell you something very simple: when you talk about nuclear energy, you don't talk about something that you can put in your pocket today, tomorrow or the day after, but you talk about something that your children will use in 50 years when we're gone. Because nuclear energy isn't something that develops in a year, it's not something you can develop in two years, but you can kill it in one or two if you want. Certainly the world, if we look at it from the point of view of nuclear energy and from the economic point of view of things, as well as the environmental justification, we must say that we need such a plant. Yes, in the hands of not only this government, but of all future governments from now on will be the responsibility for the construction, the construction of the nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. Because, colleagues, I cannot agree with anything else that has been spoken here, including by colleague Alexander Nenkov, who said that to date we do not need such energy capacities. I'll tell you a very simple example: if Henry Ford had decided that there was no need for a supply line, we wouldn't have had serial production of cars; if Alexander Bell had decided that we didn't need a phone at that time, we would be communicating with knocks; including Steve Jobs, who died a few years ago, if he had decided that we didn't need smartphones, we'd be holding some sort of puck phone in our pockets right now, most likely. [[Heckling]] Understand that for the future and for the development of Bulgaria we must lay down prerequisites. At the moment we are giving such a direction to bet precisely such a prerequisite that our children and grandchildren will need, but probably not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As they say, a saga that has been on the agenda for 30 years, is once again on the agenda, there are passions again, there are emotions again, and in fact these 30 years should teach us to sit down and look more practically at the issue because it has two sides. One is economic, and the other is in terms of technology, security and opportunities for the economy to be able to absorb this electricity. Electric energy and energy is designed to serve the economy, it is not designed to export it as a kind of commodity. We take it out because we make it too much. That's not the point! The aim is to serve the economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, the goal is expanded because we are already talking about regional markets, about European markets and there are already new conditions for the nuclear power plant to fit both the regional and the European plan so as to serve the economy of Europe and the region. No one should think that we need the nuclear power plant to be able to export electricity, and that shouldn't be the logic that we have to follow. Because a lot of people say she could've worked at least one block, and so on. That is absolutely not true. I can tell you that in 2012, when I was visiting the Ijorn Factories, one corps was not finished yet and it was about 70%, and the other was less than 25%. There was no way one of the units could work on the condition that the hull wasn't ready. There was a great delay in the so-called long cycle of production of this equipment, but this is not the big problem. If Belene was really working in May 2013, I remember that the country's consumption was about 2400 megawatts of capacity, provided that Kozloduy nuclear power plant works with about 2100 megawatts, then what would we do with Belene? You'll say we're moving out. No, we do not have that capacity to be able to export to Greece or Turkey. At one point, we had to reduce the blocks or stop them at the nuclear power plant "Belene" as we did, by the way, one of the nuclear power plants "Kozloduy" worked at 70%. "Belene" - if it has to happen, it will happen when it is right when it is time to remove the capacities in Bulgaria, because we know about the Paris Agreement, right when we have a well-made funding model, right when we know that we will not draw money from the state treasury and wonder if they will be lost, whether they will be recovered. In other words, we cannot think about this at all costs and in any way. No, that's not the point. The technical part, if we're considering whether it's seismic as an area, of course it's seismic, but it's not more seismic than Japan for example. We know that the problem did not come from the earthquake, it did not even come from the tsunami. It came from the problem of diesel generators that couldn't serve with electricity main circulators. In fact, this is a well measured risk and the nuclear power plant is a secure enough plant. Of course there's a risk, but that risk is well calculated. Stresses that took place in 2010, if memory serves, proved that. Of course, they were carried out at the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and at the project "Belene." They have proven that the nuclear power plant is indeed meeting the highest standards imposed by the International Atomic Energy Agency. I mean, technically, we have a safe project in a seismic zone, but from now on we need to know what the price is, what the structure is, who will invest. However, we are talking about 20% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. Twenty percent is a big deal. It can destroy a country, it can make it very dependent, it can make it the least debt countries in countries with one of the biggest debts, so we need to carefully follow the process what will happen as structuring. Of course, this is the work of the executive, this is the work of the Minister of Energy, who will offer us this model. We are currently talking about the state participating with more than 34%. It is a huge responsibility, it is billions of levs, with which we oblige the Bulgarian state, but it is also energy security... not only energy, but a project of national security. You have to be careful, not hasty. You say we should have canceled the National Assembly's decision. Of course we have to cancel, but when is the time to cancel? When the Council of Ministers annulled its decision, because we then confirmed the decision of the Council of Ministers, when the Council of Ministers decided that it had already structured this project when it decided that the project already had a future in terms of structuring and finding an investor and so on, that is, Bulgaria has defended its interests, then in this case, when they decide that this decision is interfering with them, they will do so. But not at all, not at all! You know that by 2012 neither had an investor, and Bulgaria had to enter this venture to finance the project itself. No one at this point knew what the project was worth. The only ones who said any price that was real were HSBC, and who respectively did research and made a report based on the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism at that time as a contracting entity. It is already known that the project costs about 10 billion. EUR along with the infrastructure that is to the project because this Over-the-Counter Price, which was talked about by the project, was 3 billion. 900 million. The dollar, obviously, wasn't the real one we'd be paying. So by 2012, I think the decision was right, we don't need to apologize to anyone. Once the price is clear, now that the equipment is with us, we have paid it, we are talking about this equipment that is made, we can now sit quietly and look at what is useful for us and what is not. Of course, the problem with the Paris Agreement and Europe's trends to close the pollutants and the so-called coal plants, we see that carbon emissions have already grown from 3 to 4 euros to over 14 euros, chasing 16. We can see that this is making it very difficult financially for our power plants. If the unit and the troika did not cover the costs of NEK, they would also be in the position of the TPP Maritsa East 2 That is, at a future moment, if there is no technology that is cheap so that we can deal with these contaminants, then at some point we will be in the conditions of really removing capacities. Of course, these capacities must be replaced by ecologically clean capacities. Such capacities are nuclear, of course. Given that we've given three billion, we need to head that way. But I say not at all, not at all! Let us give the Ministry of Energy a chance, respectively to the Council of Ministers, to do what is necessary and when the project is already clear, it is clear the funding, it is clear the return of the project, then we will support them, to stand behind them. We've never run away from responsibility or run away from responsibility to stand behind our office. But we have to do it wisely. So I call on you to go step by step, slowly, so that we do not go into a street that will turn out to be a dead end and then we decide again that we have to stop this project, because we will spend 10 billion, which is more than three billion as a loss. When we take step by step together and draw up the algorithm, the funding, when we know that this electricity will guarantee Bulgaria's economy, the price that can be competitive, then in this case we must stand behind this project. Technically, we don't have any comments. We have enough experience, we have a regulator with a lot of experience. All this is a great plus, an amazing capital for Bulgaria, which we should not lose. Nuclear energy is innovation, new technologies, lab development, cluster development and so on. This needs to be supported. Thank you and I believe that the decision that we have proposed is the support of the Minister of Energy and the Council of Ministers. Both the Law on Energy and the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy entrust the Ministry as the only entity that can resume or decide to have new capacities. Not the National Assembly. It must support these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. First line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Nikolov! You know my good respect for you, and I will tell you that I will not oppose you by your economic logic, it is very clear. Rather, I will tell you that "Belene" will be built when there is a common political will, because a nuclear power plant is not only an economic issue, it is also a political issue. And finally, I see that here, in the Chamber, after all these years for and against the headquarters, after all these years of political positions for and against, whether it should be built, I see that, in general, the political forces have a clear position at this stage that the headquarters must be built. For this reason, after all these years, I'm finally optimistic. My line is exactly like that, it's not even a line. There must be political will to do these things, despite the nuances of both colleagues and BSP, both yours and ours. I think today we are going to solve the main issue that we need to move towards the construction of Belene. Actually, that's my line. Otherwise, I have no comments on your economic statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikolov, of course we agree with your economic arguments, which we have been explaining for years. I object to the fact that you are currently saying things with reverse logic to what you were explaining why you are stopping the project. Why don't you admit to the Bulgarian voters and the Bulgarian people that the political situation has changed and you understand that the Bulgarian people have suffered billions of losses because we served foreign interests. Did you just find out that the Belene Project is economically profitable? Mr. Nikolov, there is no losing nuclear power plant in the world. It contradicts common sense that right in Bulgaria, that the first plant to be a loser will be ours. Secondly, it is absolutely pointless for us MPs here to discuss seismological and other issues. Dear Mr. Nikolov, there is an organization called the United Nations, which has a specialized unit of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has given all the licenses of the project and all the discussions here on this topic are pointless because there are authorized institutions. Thirdly, on the subject of the market, the second group of arguments that contradicted common sense. When a country produces a lot of coffee, it exports it, ladies and gentlemen, when it produces a lot of cotton, it exports it, and smarter countries, in addition to producing cotton, produce textile products. And that is why Bulgaria will either export the electricity it cannot absorb in Bulgaria or there will be clusters of companies with high energy intensity that will use this cheap electricity and produce goods that will be cost competitive. Because, gentlemen and Mr. Nikolov, there is a market for electricity, there are opportunities for its use, everywhere the plants are profitable. In France, over 80 percent of electricity is produced by nuclear plants, the United States is designing a hundred new nuclear reactors. There is no developed country that does not develop nuclear energy. First, you must acknowledge and bear responsibility for serving a large foreign country, we have stopped our Bulgarian projects at the cost of hundreds of millions of losses and will not be far away the day when certain people will be responsible for the economic damage they have caused us. Finally, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Nikolov, I propose: there is a magnificent interview by Prime Minister Borisov from 8 April 2012 in Panorama. It has to be projected. Personally, I sign under his wonderful arguments...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u35	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u36	...that the NPP is a wonderful project and that it must be implemented immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u37	You're way out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u38	Let us support Mr. Borisov, Mr. Nikolov, and vote for the project. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u39	Thank you. Third line? I won't. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor for the doppelganger. But before you begin, dear colleagues, on the western balcony we have guests from the town of Ardino. We can say hello! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! I don't know a country in the world that builds a nuclear power plant because of the fact that it wants to export electricity. That's what I said. When we build the power, we do it in order to serve our economy. Of course, our economy is now in a broader sense. I said Bulgaria is already part of a region, part of Europe. You have to look at the context of this. But when Belene is conceived, she is thought of Bulgaria. And I'm saying that if he was made, we had to stop him at some point. That there's no losing nuclear power plant in the world, that's a little funny, I apologize a lot. I'm very sorry, but I can tell you that there is no nuclear power plant in the world that's being built right now that the state hasn't guaranteed in any way that it's not a loser. That is precisely why, because if it is a loser, it cannot ensure its security because one of the criteria nuclear power plant is safe, it is financially sound. And to work financially soundly, the state is one way or another assisting her. One of the options is "Queo" where the price is fixed, the other option is for a contract for differences in "Hinckley Point" and so on. That's why there's no nuclear power plant losing. Doesn't mean it's the cheapest electricity. Excuse me, the cheapest electricity is usually created by water plants. Don't say such things. But the nuclear power plant has its advantages, it has its independence as an energy source. You shouldn't say things that aren't true, they're really not true. We therefore support the Minister and the Government to find a solution so as to implement the already paid production cycle. We are about nuclear energy to develop, but on a market basis, to bring its dividends to the state, its security, its national and energy. We will stand behind the government, but we will by no means agree to build Belene no matter what and at what cost. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u41	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Mareshki has been recorded. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Guests from Ardino! For us, from the Political Party, the construction of NPP is an absolute priority, as well as the full construction of nuclear energy in Bulgaria. [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria "Oooo" and "Bravo"! "]] I repeat, as opposed to the looting, robbing Bulgarian people project for the purchase of several aircraft and military equipment. The NPP project is exactly the opposite! It is building, it is useful for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people, it is useful for our national security. That is why we, with a good conscience, will support him. We, as you have started, as has been mentioned, to outdo yourself... which is more about the project, we are the most about the NPP project. [[Laughter at GERB.]] And because there's something in mathematics that's at most 100%, if it turns out now that they're all 100%, we can't be more than 100%. That's why I'm going to say we're the most sincere in this thing! Because, Mr. Gechev, you've had several governments that haven't completed this project. Everyone in this room has participated in various configurations in the form of members of the government, in the form of parliamentarians, in the form of the golden finger, the silver finger, the middle finger. [[Shouting from the whole room:.]] You have participated in the management of Bulgaria and have not implemented this project. We're the only ones who haven't been involved in the department. When we're involved, we'll also be on this project if you haven't done it by then. Because at our expense are other 30-year-old and multi-annual projects that many of your governments have not implemented and eventually we have to carry out them and finish them. In this regard, we from the Parliamentary Group of Volja. We believe that Mr. Atanasov correctly pointed out that he needed will and perhaps this is a sign that there is will already in parliament, there is even a Parliamentary Group of Volja in parliament, so maybe this is the sign that a start should be given and this project should be completed. We from the Parliamentary Group will support with all the power of our group, our group together [[Laughter in BSP for Bulgaria]] , yes, I repeat, with all the power of our cohesive group the proposal which was read by Mr. Nenkov because it practically repeats our vision of how this project should be implemented. My fellow Members, in conclusion, the debate has gone well. For the first time there is a great consensus on the protection, construction and completion of this project. He's starting to warp. I know that each of the parliamentary groups, especially the larger ones, have minutes left, which we have the opportunity to use in order for someone else to shine in front of the cameras. Let's concentrate on the basics if you really have the will, if you really have the strength and desire to implement this project [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: Volya, will.]] Let us have the strength and desire to implement this project, move towards pragmatism, put the proposals to the vote. The voice of the people is God's voice, in this case it is God's voice. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] and by the power of our voices to make the right decision and move on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Come in for a statement, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u44	I am extremely pleased with the previous statement. "Who is for the project, who is more, who is most for the project. This is the way to talk about this, which is a national cause. And going back years and blaming each other for who prevented the project from happening is ridiculous and stupid today. We are all aware that if a foreign secretary of state had not come in 2012 and stayed in Sofia for five hours, of which three hours met á with the so-called Roma NGO, and now A moment ago Mr. Atanasov was absolutely right that the implementation of the project is a matter of political will and of our consent. Having heard that Volja is also about the implementation of this project, I am doing the analysis that Bulgarian political life, Bulgarian society has full representativeness and will, but really will The project to be realized! Behind this project are from BSP, from GERB, not to mention us from the United Patriarchs and Ataka, which we have supported and the referendum on the development of nuclear energy, because we are currently doing the will of 60% of those voted by then, i.e. the Bulgarian people, to build nuclear power plant Belene. Who's against it? Because he's against it. Opposed, of course, and they look at me smilingly, they understand what I'm going to say, is the Turkish nationalist party in Bulgaria DPS. [[Voices from DPS: "Whoo!"]] Why are they against it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u45	Mr. Shopov, may I ask you... Mr. Shopov, you have little time. Should we increase the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u46	Well, because the implementation of this project is against Turkish national interest. Because Turkey is building a nuclear power plant with four blocks...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u47	Mr. Shopov, may I ask you: do you have some time to increase the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u48	Yeah, yeah. Increase the time. [[Replications. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u49	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u50	...four blocks and other nuclear power plants are being prepared again with Russian blocks, in the same technology. There are also those who were at the entrance of the National Assembly yesterday, around the monument of the Liberator King, who were less than the characters on the bereefs of the Monument of the Liberator King, including the Liberator King himself and his horse, which they hate only because he is the Russian Liberator King Alexander II, and he stands on the horse, and who have now moved away from there. What do DPS and these have in common? It is that both serve foreign interests and obey instructions and orders from foreign embassies and foreign masters. They are generously given a tribune to imitate some representativeness and some legitimate position by some of the Bulgarians. This is done to embarrass this consensus, which is being carried out by the Bulgarian parties in the National Assembly at the moment. Specially active in this regard is Channel 1 of the Bulgarian National Television. We have to make a note of it. These faces, you will see them on the morning, evening and all other blocks, especially on the Bulgarian National Television. And therefore, I repeat, it is a matter of political will that the parties that we stand behind this project are firmly behind, and from now on to stand up for it, so that we are not under the influence of another foreign secretary of state or a politician from a neighbouring country, with which we have been making a contribution, anyway, for some time this is another topic to stand for what will remain for generations and is a matter of a higher cause. Let the current Forty-fourth National Assembly remain in history as the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, which has implemented this absolutely necessary project, which will make Bulgaria a different country, a sovereign, a true state, and not part of another system. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Mr. Kolev, one minute and thirty seconds for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u52	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister! We're talking here, but we're forgetting what we're here for. She's got us all coerced up. We've got these reactors, we've got a playground, but no one's talking about the economic segment. To build a megawatt nuclear plant, it takes 5 million. megawatt euros. To build a coal power plant, 1 million. Six hundred seven hundred thousand. EUR per megawatt; watery 1 million EUR per megawatt; solar megawatt euros. So much for building. Then the nuclear power plant is a stock-dependent raw material, and you mean that we will have the cheapest electricity when we build a plant with funds that are 5 million. megawatt euros! That's not gonna happen! The point is, I wanted to tell my colleague that we can't have cheap electricity, but we are here because we are now forced to find a solution. So let's give it a chance to look for an investor who can put money into it, but without it weighing on the people without a government guarantee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u53	Time, Mr. Kolev! Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u54	Mr. Shopov, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has a clearly defined political identity and we care enough about the national interest of the country, but what you are talking about yesterday, including GERB, including GERB, was placed alongside BSP in relation to the revival process, what you did. Do you know what the consequences will be...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u55	Mr. Ebatine, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u56	...and what will be the consequences of national security from now on? [[Reply from the hall.]] On the contrary, national security does not have such a bearing on the project, but it does have a direct bearing on those actions that have been taken by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u57	We're talking about energy right now, Mr. Ebatine. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u58	Apparently, Mr. Ebatine, that's how I share them. For me, this is a very serious criterion - whether they have been added in the name of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Reply from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u59	On the subject, Mr. Shopov. Let the hole be on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u60	...Yes, it was supposed to be Ebatinov, as it is on the Bulgarian name system. [[Reply from the hall: "This is their right."]] Their right, but I largely identify them by this criterion who is what, who is more radical, who....
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u61	I remind you, Mr. Shopov, that the subject is energy. I'm asking you to get on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u62	...and really confirmed by his line what I was talking about a moment ago a Turkish nationalist party in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u63	Mr. Shopov, please, on the subject. Hole on the subject. [[Replying, noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u64	...and the predestination that the DPS has a predestination. Yeah, that's the destiny for the DPS to interfere with the project. Do not implement the project as the Bulgarian parties have planned it and as we have decided to implement it. This was officially said by this tribune of DPS. I was very hoping that they would somehow mimic and support the Project, but they don't have that intention. The DPS is firmly following Ankara's determination as a Turkish nationalist party, doing so and in all the arguments for the necessity and effectiveness of the DPS project following its objective move.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u65	Mr. Shopov, please, without the political party definitions. The theme is energy. I remind you, colleagues! Please don't come out of this! We have a statement from Mr. Antonov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Minister! From the substantial speeches on the NPP, we come to the conclusion that there is no alternative to the construction of the NPP. That's the first and the best conclusion we can make. However, in fact, from the two projects proposed in the National Assembly, although the motives are largely the same, two different solutions are proposed. One decision, I would say, that of the left, and in no case do I make a policy here and my speech should not be accepted as political, that of the left, which categorically places the repeal of Decision No 250 of the Forty-first National Assembly, which stops the construction of the nuclear power plant Belene. The second proposal, which is being made, is the right-wing proposal with the same motives, to actually continue the operation of Decision No 250 of the Forty-first National Assembly, which stopped the construction of the nuclear power plant. The arguments in favour of our proposal can be many more, but I would like to mention in a few words that what you are proposing is not good for Bulgaria. The first thing you see is that there are enough investors, but today we are giving them a sign not to come, if you confirm your decision, we are giving them a sign not to come. They do not come to invest, they do not feel their security in investment. And here the question of the state guarantee should not only be raised. Today, we actually provide precisely such a state guarantee if we support the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene". The second thing we need to know is the construction of 38 years. The first stop was in 1990 for political reasons. Despite the economic difficulties Bulgaria has had, we would have had a plant built a long time ago. The difference and similarities between 1990 and your proposal are terrifying similarities. Then we had a reactor, a site that is largely the same as it is today with everything built on it. But today, you know very well that some of the building permits have expired. Therefore, I ask you to support our decision so that we can go in this procedure in style and speed, and this must happen this year, because there is technological time there too. It takes a year and a half for some of these documents that should be prepared - that is what I expect Minister Petkova to say. Not only, as a colleague said, that you are tying up Minister Petkova's hands, you are condemning the Ministry of Energy in this situation. This is about the Bulgarian economy for the construction of the plant. It was not a coincidence in 2005 and before that national site. We can't have left, and I don't agree it's 3 billion. or 3.5 billion. lv. By 1990, the investment, in the words of the CEO, who was at the plant, the investment was about a billion and a hundred million dollars at that date, on which you wanted a course, but there was a site built, there was a reactor currently operating in the Underground and producing electricity. Thirty-eight years you've been calling us to wait and wait! Whoever builds this plant first in the region, it is clear that he will be the first to win. Don't you see that? Is that something to talk about again? We have two options today. I can make many more arguments. I can either put it on the investment table with confirmation of our decision, support our decision, and then we can take the nuclear power plant out of Belene, and we can put it on the investment table, or we can totally doom the plant and stop its execution, and then sell the two reactors of the stock. These are the two conclusions. There are other numbers here. I very much count on the MPs from the region, from the various political forces to support our proposal. Why? Because this is vital for the Bulgarian economy, vital for the region, vital for Northern Bulgaria! Pleven, where I represent, in 2017, about 6,000 people left him, which makes 2.3% of the population. Can you imagine the historical Pleven in one year dropped by 2.3% of the population?! What about the other settlements? It is even heavier in Northern Bulgaria. Do not decapitalise Bulgaria, do not decapitalise the Bulgarian economy with today's decision! It's important! Don't sugarcoat that it doesn't matter today's decision. It's very important to Belene! Today, either it rises like a phoenix, or you bury it! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Any lines to Mr. Antonov's statement? Mr. Nikolov said a line, Mr. Kirilov. Second line. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Yeah, I agree, there really was an almost-built block that was subsequently sold, I think after the customs fees and so on, if memory serves me right, somewhere for 70 million. The dollar. Currently it works and produces about 1,100 megawatts of power at the Kalinian nuclear power plant. If it had been completed, it would have had 30 plus 30 years, because it is from the generation of the VI block of the NPP "Kozloduy" and would have 60 years to work and produce really cheap energy. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Because then we wouldn't be putting in those billions that have so far been invested. They've already been spent. It would produce exactly the price that Kozloduy is currently producing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u69	Who sold it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u70	Really, who sold it? Perhaps we should ask ourselves why at this price? But, anyway, let's not dig into past affairs, let's think about what's there now. We're talking about NPP Belene, about construction. We don't have anything yet and we don't know exactly how the project will be structured. Let us work on this and allow the government to work peacefully, not to burden it with unnecessary policies, because it has stated its intentions. These three billion, which are not costs, this is actual capital at this time and this capital to be realised in order to be able to carry dividends and security, but we must therefore give the Ministry of Energy calmness and, respectively, the Council of Ministers to work calmly and know that there is a political will to implement this in the best way. I say again, not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! Dear Mr. Antonov, I want to talk about the phoenix that we expect to resurrect. First of all, thank you for recalling the balance of costs by the 1990s, so we must add to the losses so far and the funds invested by the 1990s. And for this phoenix we're expecting, please consider that this is an extremely untenable project. That is why we are telling you: let this project be checked for economic adequacy, and the verification is done only on the market, it is done only by attracting real investors. I remember a debate about Belene in 2005. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Only one, but he's a special, dear colleague, because then... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u73	Please, colleagues of the BSP, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u74	That's right, that's right. Then the value, according to your energy guru, was six billion for this plant. And I say, what will be built in Belene? CERN Collider costs four and a half billion. What kind of station is this going to be? Here, this is the big problem of this project, because here always, back in time, we had plus value. Where does this plus value go?! Is he going where we're dependent?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Will there be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u76	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Unfortunately, we had to hear what we heard from you, too, from a man who managed the energy sector. You know that at the reboot of Belene the figure was four billion and very little there. There are people in this room who remember it, unlike the other four billion euros, without the escalation, and 190, what was it? You've made more than that. It doesn't matter. You're talking about 10 billion now. Do it at 10 billion. I'm telling you, about 90 years ago, it was a billion and a hundred. Put in, calculate every year the conservations without anything else. I gave you the example that there is an energy block that you yourself said was sold for 80 million. Don't do it the same way. What's more, don't sell them both! Bulgaria, without producing energy blocks, sold one. Do we have to sell two more now?! One of my colleagues mentioned that there was no nuclear power plant losing. Let's watch from here on out. If we shorten the time for the deadline for the construction of the nuclear power plant, our price will be better, we will enter the markets before everyone else, before those blocks that are in Turkey, those that are in Hungary, who are ahead of us. That's the point. What if we were talking about the price of electricity? If the nuclear power plant had been built, would that be today's price?! What about all the companies they export, didn't they export the electricity from Kozloduy? They don't export from the TPP, they don't export from the RES, they don't export green energy, they export from the TPP, they export from the TPP, they export from the TPP, they don't export green energy, they export from the TPP, they export from the TPP, they export from the TPP, they don't export green energy, Or do we get the impression that you are lobbying for those, so that the price does not fall, you are lobbying against the Bulgarian people, you are lobbying for those who have released them since 2012 to build with green energy the overproductions of these sources, which is on the back of the Bulgarian people and cannot pay! I think there are enough arguments in this direction and you know them yourself. Support the decision not to vote against the Bulgarian people today, but to vote for Bulgaria, to vote for the Bulgarian economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, come in. Colleagues, today we have students from St. George's School. Patriarch Evtimiy Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u78	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! I suggest we get back to the ground a little bit and start giving positive signals to society, which I suppose and I hope we're gathered here today. Because if we look back at who, when, what and how it has done it, and how much it has cost, and where we have gone wrong, we will probably draw arguments for each of the governments that have managed Bulgaria so far, that there is some contribution not to this plant, of course, with different degrees of responsibility, with different consequences for the state, but looking back, we can stumble on our way forward. Once again there are signs that the project nuclear power plant is going to happen. And today this perspective is much more real, especially after President Rumen Radev's talks in Russia with Prime Minister Medvedev and President Putin and the subsequent visit of the Prime Minister there. We've always been behind this plant. I will repeat again because the plant is necessary for the whole region and not only for Bulgaria. If we as a country do not hurry to take advantage of the advantage that gives us the fact that we have a licensed site and almost ready equipment and we do not fill this gap, of course it will be filled by others. They're going to build their power plants, and we're not going to export electricity instead of being energy independent, we're going to have to import. Logic is simple, simple, you can't object to it. Can we go without the Russian side's involvement in this project? Anyone who thinks in reality and is not blinded by political bias is more than clear.. provided that the reactors are Russian, so Russia's participation in this project in one or another role is also known. Logically, you can't resist anything. But here we must give answers to speculation that such a project could put us depending on Russia. Absolutely not. This is about purely economic relations. I would just like to remind you that, according to the European statistical methodology, energy produced from a nuclear power plant is produced by itself, regardless of where nuclear fuel comes from, because the cost of nuclear fuel is very low and is almost negligible compared to the other costs and the cost of electricity at the end. Among other things, the recharge period is very high. There's no way to say we ran out of fuel today, we have to refuel tomorrow. A year, a year and a half longer is already becoming the period of refueling of the plants. More than that. As specific as nuclear fuel may be, it may as a last resort be replaced by another source. Here the talk of dependence that Russia will turn the tap on us cannot be explained in any other way than through political blindness. As for the construction itself, yes, the construction and installation of the equipment cannot be done without those who have produced the reactor, but it is also a global practice. Isn't that right, Minister? And it doesn't lead to addiction, it leads to security. Also logical. We at BSP propose that the NEC State Enterprise be separate from the NEC. It would be appropriate to look at the possibility of being together with the NPP, which would allow this state-owned enterprise to use project lending and pay off its investment with what is produced by all active reactors in Bulgaria, something that will ease the state and perhaps find a way and will be easier to implement the project. Given the limited time, I will not dwell on what I have noted, but I just want to say that the long wandering in relation to this project over 30 years, as you have already mentioned, must be an earring when we talk about projects exceeding the mandate of a government. We must have consensus on issues affecting national security and national interests. We at BSP have always stated that we are for this consensus and will work for it. Let's look for it before we start implementing a project, not after we've started implementing it and then fighting its opponents, which is wasting time, losing energy and not leading to positive results. One more thing. As far as I know, there is no nuclear power plant built in the world without the state taking guarantees in one form or another relating to both the security of operation of the plant itself, the sustainability of the environment, including the legal framework that exists, and the commitments that we have with regard to anti-terrorist events and protection from cyber attacks. Madam Minister, the report you have submitted is encouraging, but not sufficient. I would like to remind you once again that there is a decision of the National Assembly from 2012 titled: Leave the title. You were paid attention to the preamble, where it is referred to as non-existent, according to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences report of 2000, a seismic hazard. There is no such danger. There is talk of a recommendation to make a steam station. That is why we at BSP insist, first, that another decision of the National Assembly be adopted to repeal the 2012 Decision and then we need to look for a way to win the state and the strategic investor. The construction of a second nuclear power plant brings us back to the club of the most modern nuclear states, because the reactors are still one of the most modern, but if we keep slowing down, they will become obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I conclude this speech in the hope that this time the NPP project will be implemented, but I also pay attention to what I have said earlier that the problems before it are not for understatement and only reasonable negotiations with potential strategic investors, negotiations aimed at protecting the interests not only of the investor but also of the state, can give a successful start. Gentlemen of government, we believe that our proposal, the BSP, is more comprehensive, we maintain it and we will vote for it. However, I would like to stress that even if the majority does not comply with this important project for the country and our national security, we, as a sign of willingness to reach consensus, will support your draft decision. We will support it, although we think it is much more limited, but it is the first step of 2012 in the right direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Zablyanov, Mr. Atalay and Mr. Nenkov. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I am very interested in listening to this discussion and I would like to remind you of a well-known political fact. In 2013 a referendum was held in Bulgaria with a question: "Is nuclear energy to develop in Bulgaria?"....................................................... in Bulgaria?........................... The result was a 70% response and about 30% response ain't. The referendum according to the number of participants exceeded the 20% required by the Law to be valid without being mandatory. That is, purely political in Bulgaria, there is a referendum held on the issue of the construction of a second nuclear power plant, and this referendum with its valid result and with the definite outcome, I think, pretty much prejudges all discussions! Because, as is known, the results of the referendum are above the vote, the discussions and so on in the National Assembly! Today there was even a question: should the National Assembly discuss this issue and not transfer it to the government? What is the burden of a decision of the National Assembly? I take the floor with the insistent request that we all comply with the results of the referendum, which is valid. The referendum was organized by the Bulgarian Socialist Party to remind those who were protesting during that time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Replies to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will try briefly to express the opinion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in connection with today's debate on the point of the Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by telling you that all the speeches so far, in my opinion, were not in substance, were not on the subject. Neither in Minister Petkova's report nor in the decisions somewhere there is a permit for construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene"! There's no line on this thing anywhere. If there were, you should know that today the Prime Minister would be here, he would stand on the stand, he would be the leader of the... Did you just say Phoenix? [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: "Felix! "]] Felix would be like the person who really is responsible for building energy or investing around 20 billion. lv. We can't see him. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we invited him not to come here to humiliate him to come here to explain to the MPs, after before the departure in Moscow he released into the public space that we would build the Belene, what happened in Moscow, what arrangements there or none. This was the Prime Minister's place here to explain and take the road to cutting the next tape. The Prime Minister is gone, and that's why for me this conversation, this debate is a ruse to the National Assembly. Gentlemen of the Will, there is no political will. If you listen to the debate, you will see that exactly opposite are the decisions proposed by BSP and GERB. There's no political will! And there's no political will outside. Apropo, for those outside who accuse us of being together with them against the interests of the state, I also cannot agree because they are part of the Bulgarian society, and they have an opinion. There is no way that a person can come out here. All his arguments in the National Assembly can only be against the DPS and when he sees the DPS, he can get laid. And I ask myself, Mr. Shopov: if you and I go out on the street and a group of Turks see us, who will they take as a Turk? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u83	On the subject, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u85	On the subject, let's talk about energy. Please don't get off the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u86	I'm not going out on the subject. Madam President, don't interrupt me. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u87	You're out, so I'm instructing you to re-enter the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u88	I thought that GERB had already completed the list of incorrect decisions " at last is the time to start making the right decisions." Apparently, that list is still long. The NPP decisions are not outside the energy sector. I will tell you what your arguments are, but if we wanted to have a serious debate on energy, we had to present to the National Assembly today the need for new capacities in closing old ones, which do not comply with Directive 88 of 2001, including the new directive on large combustion plants that pollute the air. You don't have that kind of performance in front of us. It would have been a serious conversation to say how much the growth of the economy will be and how much the growth of the electricity used, the electricity produced after we have gone through diversification and energy efficiency. You would see then that if we were to implement energy efficiency and shut down certain capacities, there might be no need for new capacities. I'm done. Or if we need new capacities, then stand before us and tell us what energy is needed "base power": nuclear, steam, or new, innovative. You have no such offer. You don't really have a strategy. You want us to support something I also heard from the O.P., who said it was pointless to talk about the past, and it's pointless to talk about the future. No, colleagues. The talk about the future of energy, if you start with "Cheers!" as you are starting now, will lead to the same situation that it used to be. Energy wants healthy leadership, healthy governance. For what you have taken in the inner part, without the big energy projects, Madam Minister, I welcome you, but for the big energy projects, if you tell us that nuclear energy is needed, then tell us: what are the economic indicators, have you given up those solutions in the framework that you released before... about seismology, what are we going to do with spent nuclear fuel? And then what are we going to do about a number of other things, are they going to go into the price? If we set up a power plant, where's the gas coming from? You saw that GERB closed South Stream. Before that, those who are outside now closed down the Syn stream, claiming that the shrimps and fish at the bottom of the Black Sea will die. Dear colleagues, it would be funny if it wasn't severe. The situation is very severe. The situation is severe because you have no balance in energy. Have you seen an uncut drawer? Have you tried putting together a drawer that someone else messed up? It's very difficult. That's not gonna happen. Madam Minister, you will be burdened with one burden....the burden you cannot come out of. BSP, I welcome them. Mr. Ivan Genov said in the Commission that by birth he deals with nuclear energy and has good ideas. With this decision, which we are currently going to burden you with, we are not giving you any opportunity to take any decision related to nuclear energy. Then how do you want us to support you? What can we support you for? However, in order not to be so vain, if you had the whole strategy, if you had familiarized yourself with the new technologies, if you had convinced us here that the derogation would pass and we wouldn't have a 2% increase in combustion plants, how many billion investments were needed for coal plants? If all this became clear to the people's representation in order to clarify it to the other people, then the referendums, Mr. Zablyanov, would not remain unfulfilled. Because it is very easy to produce a referendum on the construction of a nuclear power plant when the public does not know why and for what reason we want it............................... as if today we wanted a referendum on whether the salaries of the citizens in Bulgaria should become 5 thousand. lv. Make such a referendum and you will see that the result will not be like the one for Belene. Your argument, if that were the case, we would support you. But see now what your arguments are.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u89	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u90	The first thing that is sounds like this after the meeting with President Putin we must create a new topic in society and let society chew nuclear energy. Why? Because we have two reactors in the square and we're wondering what to do with them. That's right, we got the reactors. But, just like Mr. Nikolov said, if we'd let the reactors run from 1981, we'd have cheap energy today. If we had released them in 2018, we would also have cheap energy today. You stopped them. You stopped the project. Now what's new about this project? Nothing at all. Without Atomstroy's permission, without Putin's permission, you cannot start doing absolutely nothing on this project. In other words, the project is Russian. Is the state going to participate? How'd you figure the down payment with the reactors would be 30%? So you don't know how and how you will store spent nuclear fuel after processing it. Mr. Genov, the director of the nuclear power plant, will tell you what we still have in Russia. It's not a simple question, it's not a simple problem I wonder why Mr. Tsvetanov didn't put his earpiece on today, as he listened to yesterday's declaration. [[Laughter]] Things are very serious, colleagues. The decision you will make today is your decision. We cannot support the vague outcome of a solution. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any lines to the statement? [[Noise and lines.]] Let's run out of procedure first. Let the lines pass, and I'll give you the floor. Mr. Shopov, wait for the personal explanation. First Mr. Nikolov had a line, Zablyanov has a personal explanation. Mr. Jablyanov, wait for the line. We finish the procedure with the backrest and then I will give the floor for a personal explanation first to Mr. Shopov, then to Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Mareshki wants a line. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Atalay, I just wanted to make a few clarifications, because an ordinary listener can be misled by the orderly logic you make. Thank you for quoting that we would really have cheap energy if at least one block was working, which was almost ready, built on the site in Belene. However, I would like to say again: even if we had not stopped the project, it could not be operational at the moment, because in 2016 the construction of the equipment with a long production cycle was completed. Everyone who's familiar knows there's no way, when you put the reactor hull on the launcher, it can't be downloaded, continued, stopped, released, that is, when it's put on, it ends up. In other words, our suspension or release has not affected the period of its development. We know that the Ijorn factories are owned by the "Gszprom" they are not influenced by the opinion of the "Rosatom" or by the "Atomstroyexport" which is actually the contracting entity. In fact, in 2016 the equipment with a long production cycle was completed. It worked even when the arbitration case was underway! So anyone who says that Belene was going to work is an absolute lie. That's not true! Otherwise, we have no influence on this process, that if one block that was placed there, as I say, the technology, the VI block of Kozloduy nuclear power plant, and it was built, then at the moment the price of electricity would be comparable to the demand that Kozloduy nuclear power plant sells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Mareshki for line two. Is there gonna be a third line, guys? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Guests! Dear Mr Atalay, as it has become clear, there is will in parliament, albeit at the moment with one not as big as I would like a parliamentary group, but that is not the point. In our opinion, there is also the will to execute the Project. The small squabbles on the right and left side of the hall are more like whether to go from Varna to Sofia, passing on the south highway, or passing on the northern highway. However, the road is clear. The road is the construction of the nuclear power plant Belene and this is the main one. Therefore, once again, I call on them to stop these squabbles, to concentrate on the basics, to support the project which Mr. Nenkov read to us,............................. we believe it is as detailed as possible, and to act on the substance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Atalay, will he have the back? Here you go. Colleagues, there are young people from Gotse Delchev on the balcony today. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Mr. Nikolov! You have done enough to not be able to produce the reactors in time to launch the first block in 2018. Mr. Mareshki, with one sentence. Why didn't you introduce a single decision from one point: to make a decision today on the construction of the nuclear power plant? Belene. Then you'd see how many people would support you. That's why I'm saying there's no will. It's a game, guys! Yes, my respect for your parliamentary group! However, once again, I tell you: when reports are presented, energy solutions in Bulgaria, they must be in line with the vision, with the 2030 Development Strategy, 2040 and on the corresponding energies from which we will receive the production of basic power, sun, wind, new innovation technologies, efficiency, diversification. When we do all these things for Bulgaria's national security, then already, if there is an excess, we need to think about why we have made more capacities and we have an excess, if we have a shortage where and in what way to do the efficiency in order to have growth in the economy? That's the truth, guys! Anything else with the mustache, without the mustache, is an empty tale.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u97	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. For a personal explanation first, Mr. Shopov, then Mr. Zablyanov. [[Noise and lines.]] You, Mr. Genov? And you want a personal explanation, is that it? Okay, I'll give you the floor, too. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u98	I take the floor for a personal explanation just because you tried to intimidate me, you, Mr. Atalay, one of the still a little decent people in the DPS. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I have said about you before, and about Dr. Ademov that when Carthage is destroyed, which is the cause of my life, people will choose from the DPS who are now voting for the DPS, their MPs and they will be distributed to all parliamentary groups, as is normal representation in a normal and democratic state, as it is in Europe and as it was in Bulgaria once. To me who is what is manifest in the cases, and not only in the cases, but also in the words, in the causes which everyone defends, and I defend you, and today you see, a national cause behind which is the vast majority of the Bulgarian people, Mr. Atalay, and not as you try: there were obstructions and there was no consensus, as some I spoke about just now, outside, at the Monument of the King Liberator, along with you were opposed. For myself I give my shortest characteristic and I have always experienced myself and felt like an Orthodox Bulgarian. And nothing else! Everything I have done has been in defence of the Bulgarian national interest and of my people. And who is what because you have asked the question, I will remind you, Mr. Atalay, that in Bulgaria in the 17th century in some of the cataclysms in the Ottoman Empire from Iran are spent, translated and carried into Bulgaria compact groups of population because the Iranians are not Turks because they are not Sunni, Mr. Atalay, but they are allivite. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You know damn well about that! I don't know how you feel about Turkish, Alivite, Sunni or... That's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u99	Mr. Shopov, I'm sorry. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a personal explanation. Then Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u100	Madam President, Members of Parliament, Madam Minister! Mr. Atalay, you are putting a very meaningful question that you have brought to my persona, but this is irrelevant to me. The question of the gravity of the decision of the National Assembly and who to make decisions in Bulgaria about such structural projects with huge costs. It is obvious that the government cannot make these decisions after the matter has reached the National Assembly. It is obvious that the expert level of such decisions is quite narrow as competences to resolve strategic issues. I would like to draw attention to fellow Members of the Parliament that Germany has such strategic solutions from the European countries, whether to develop nuclear energy. It's not about the price, the type, the reactors, whether the site is seismic or what the concrete is. This is not a debate for the National Assembly, but on this issue the sovereign of the Bulgarian people can rule on whether Bulgaria should develop nuclear energy, and I think it is of its competence not for any other reason, but because the development of nuclear energy and its unfolding sits a state in the modern world in terms of its overall economic development. Therefore, the competences of Bulgarian citizens in this regard are beyond doubt. That is why the referendum has its weight. It is the government's responsibility and responsibility to arrange the drawer, if I may quote you. Only it can't do the job! This is where I'm solidarity. They can't do that! Until three years ago, they felt that this referendum did not matter and would not develop nuclear energy. Today they're playing political footage to win a few votes. I'm solidarizing with you. I also doubt the gravity of this discussion and the sincerity of their intentions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u101	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u102	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u103	Thank you. Mr. Genov, come in. On the balcony is a visiting group from Radnevo municipality, led by the mayor of Radnevo. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u104	Don't attack me, I'll attack you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u105	With this invitation from Mr. Atalay, I can't help but take advantage of a personal explanation. What he mentioned and somehow hung in the air for good proposals, I really think they are good proposals. In this respect, I definitely believe that there are supporters both from GERB and from BSP. In my opinion, the best option for the realization of the project is the exit of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the creation of nuclear holding in Bulgaria, which will enter the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the new enterprise that will build the nuclear power plant "Belene" in Bulgaria. That's the best option. This is what we proposed in 2008, but did not accept it... the then leadership of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u106	The personal explanation for what exactly is it, Mr. Genov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u107	It's Mr. Atalay's explanation, why... [[Noise and lines.]] I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u108	...why you accepted his invitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u109	Okay. And the other, Mr. Atalay, as far as we're concerned, we're not returning anything from Russia. So far, we're not returning anything from Russia, and we're continuing to transport spent nuclear fuel to Russia.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Since there are more statements being made, I'm giving you 30 minutes off. We'll continue the debate after that. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u111	Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats to continue the debate. We are continuing the debate on the item on the agenda. There's a statement from Mr. Nenkov. Is he in the gym? Is there anyone else who would like to speak, or should we wait for the MPs who have expressed their wish? Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor of speech, you have declared such a wish before the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, and I have just said in the presentation of the Project for a decision which we have tabled together with our colleagues from "United Patriarchs" that we can talk a lot about the historical review of "Belene." We can blame each other a lot, but ultimately we are in a situation where we have to make the most forward-looking decision, not on the basis of personal and political bias, but on the basis of an objective situation with a view to the future, does this power plant have its economic and financial justification, and is this electricity that these two reactors would produce in the future necessary for our economy? In my opinion, the most wrong question, which may be in the past, unfortunately, may also be in the present, is for.............................................................................................. This question, thus put to me, rests on some subjective assessment rather than on the real need to build such a large infrastructure project, which is nearly 20% of gross domestic product, which, by technology, must work for the next decades, and which must be built for someone's account. In my opinion, two other issues are much more important, and they should have always come first, not whether we are........................................ what is my opinion, what is the opinion of other colleagues. The first question is, is this energy needed as a base power in our energy mix? The second question is whether the State can afford, precisely, such an investment in such a project? I'll start backwards. Can we afford one such infrastructure site? Our opinion is that we can't. After all, the State, the National Electricity Company, must not forget that, after being sentenced by the International Arbitration Court in the case of Atomstroyexport, for the supply of supplies with long-term consumption and production of energy, the State and we here as MPs voted the Law with which the Ministry of Finance gave money to the Ministry of Energy, respectively to NEC, to pay the billion and 200 million. lv. on the Russian side. Separately, the Bulgarian energy holding also imitated a debt of 1 billion years ago, which supported the serious debt that we had fallen into a few years ago between the various energy companies in the state energy sector. The question is therefore, can the State afford one such additional cost beyond what we have done? My personal opinion and the colleagues who submitted this proposal are no. As to the second question: do we need this electricity? To tell you the truth, given the history of this project, which is certainly not a single one and certainly tolerates a lot of criticism in the way of starting, developing, designing, financial model, tolerates a lot of criticism. After all, no one can say even the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences colleagues who have been tasked with making a detailed report, yes, they predict approximately with a certain growth of the economy, with certain other variables that it will require base electricity for example after 2035. Given the situation and the new requirements relating to the Paris Agreement, namely for large combustion plants, where either they have to make immense financial efforts to meet these criteria, or therefore these plants, or some of them to get out of use, therefore we may need more base capacities. I want to say very clearly and categorically that GERB, as the political party, have never opposed the development of nuclear energy. In our decisions, which we have voted on both in 2012 and after the 2013 referendum, we have always stated that we are about the development of this type of electricity. Another is the question at what cost? Here it is important to note the meaning of our decision. Our decision says the following: given the situation, given the opportunities that the Minister of Energy has given as options for existing equipment, a site, namely the material and intangible assets that the State, in one way or another, likes or does not like, has invested so far. Based on this report, based on the report of colleagues from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, on which the report of the Minister of Energy is also taking place, we have adopted a decision, rather we have proposed a solution with which we are giving a mandate. Here it is very important to note that the thunderous titles of the type of....Restart the project..Belene.... are not correct in my opinion. We're not restarting anything! We give a mandate to the Council of Ministers, to the Minister of Energy to do their research, to make their contacts with investors who are willing to invest not a little money in this project, to find an opportunity or option in which the state without guarantees, without further aggravation of the Bulgarian consumer, without long-term contracts to buy this electricity based on what we have already invested, to build this project. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u113	Colleagues, can I have a little quiet in the room, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u114	Given the situation and several options that have been provided, certainly, colleagues, the worst option at this stage, I say again, at this stage, before we have seen what the market research is about the worst option is nothing to do. Here I think we have a serious consensus with many of the political parties. We must, we must, we must examine because of wrong or wrong decisions, we have come to this point and we must examine every possibility. The real market test, colleagues, for this project is coming up. Assuming that, after the Court of Arbitration's ruling, we have closed a page and we have come to this point, from now on, this project I believe must be realised in a very different way than what was in its original version after 2005 "2006." The real market test will show whether the investments made in this project would indeed be financially and economically advantageous for future investors. If this is shown and really is of such interest, then I see nothing wrong with the state with the equipment available, with the tangible and intangible assets available to participate, but should not be at all costs. And here on several occasions it has been repeated that this should not be at all costs. In the 30-year and older history of this project, given the situation in which our economy is located, given the consumption, the base capacities that we have at the moment, it is somehow free or involuntary, our self-preservation instinct has preserved us so far. Because in a situation where we had two more blocks of 1,000 megawatts, we would have had in a way more than what we are using and given the market, which is electricity, even though it is already open, although this is not just about our economy, but about the whole region at all, we would certainly have had a problem with how to implement it, and as my colleague Nikolov said just now, how will we have to think about which of the blocks to stop so that, as far as we know, it is not very technically correct to be able to balance the system. I would like to make it very clear that our decision is not for a reason so cautious. I can classify it exactly as being cautious, because we do not want at all costs there is a big gap between our proposal and our colleagues from the BSP. They've always been, yes, consistent to a large extent. They have always wanted this project to be implemented, and at every such opportunity. As long as we say clearly and have specified clear parameters in which the next negotiations must enter. I am very far from thinking, and I disagree that I almost said earlier that Parliament and the majority do not trust the Minister of Energy, the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u115	[[Noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u116	No, on the contrary. Both in 2012, and now it has become clear that the decision of the National Assembly is not binding, mandatory for any minister. It's recommended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u117	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u118	You have to read, colleague, and you'll understand what I'm talking about. And in 2012, the Decision clearly states that it approves the Decision of the Council of Ministers No 250. And on this day, even today, to adopt this decision, the Minister of Energy, in principle, may, by presumption, not comply with this decision. But the truth is that here we are looking for political will to realize or not to realize this project and this is the most normal way, this is the most transparent way, because in Parliament, naturally, we represent a small part of the voters. This project, whatever its future is, must be taken on the basis of a maximum broad consensus, because such projects are implemented through a series of governments. If we make the decision at all costs, in spite of everything and everyone, then surely his future will most likely be what it is so far, and it is nothing. For this reason, I also admire here, we must be absolutely convinced that any such decision must go through the sanctions of the National Assembly so that one day it is not a minister or a Council of Ministers only and only they can bear this responsibility, but all of us as MPs. Therefore, my fellow Members, in conclusion, I can really say the following:... that our decision can be characterised by a single sentence. It is that the Belene project has its future, but not at all costs. On the other hand, nothing is the worst option in this case and we should give a mandate to the Council of Ministers, the government, the Minister of Energy to find the best option. And if this project is financially and economically profitable, in the coming months time will show it. The market test for Belene is coming up. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any lines to the statement? [[The National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants the floor.]] You don't have time. Any other lines? I can't see. Speeches, coworkers, is there? [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I would ask you to take your seats in this Chamber and ensure the necessary silence. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u120	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, we are having a debate that is related to the fate of NPP Belene. Because there were many accusations, purely political, to the Political Party GERB for the decision to stop, which was taken in 2012, and for all that the government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has been doing all these years in the field of energy, I can only remind everyone here a chronology that is important. The project for NPP "Belene" started in 1981. Dear colleagues, within 47 years the NPP "Belene" is still at ground zero. If you are blaming GERB for stopping and for not realizing the site of the NPP "Belene" you had the opportunity to do it 38 years before GERB came to power! But what happened in 1990 " 1991" was to actually be able to stop the nuclear power plant "Belene." And as we go along with the chronology, we cannot fail until 2000, when there is an expert solution that determines that for nuclear power in our country it is best to build the site of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and rejects the possibility of making the 6th reactor of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." This is at a time when it was really very extreme and, of course, without absolutely no meaningful arguments. In 2004, a decision was taken by the Council of Ministers on the construction of a nuclear power plant and in 2005. The project is defined as a national object. And here, colleagues, in this period, until the end of the nuclear power plant, I can say that it is one of the good models for corruption and policies that can actually be detrimental to society and in no way protect national interests. All I want to say to you is that in 2006, NEK signed an agreement. However, it repeatedly postpones the signing of a contract to carry out all these activities and awards the development and purchase of nuclear reactors. Nobody talks about this period! Why wasn't this contract signed? Because no one has had the opportunity to be politically responsible for such a decision and for signing this treaty. In 2008, you know all that one Appendix 5 to the Agreement of 29 November 2006 is signed for ordering and producing equipment with a long production cycle. This happens exactly when you from BSP rule. And you sign, you assign, but you actually refuse to sign the contract so that you can actually see what the benefits to the state are and what the security will be guaranteed to Bulgaria. This thing, of course, does not matter to you because it is not important to you whether there are principles and whether they are respected, whether there are criteria and they are respected. All this time you wanted to have a project behind which the state stands as a state guarantee and, of course, to have signed long-term contracts for the purchase of an expensive electricity, which would definitely be detrimental to the Bulgarian consumer. [[Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are many options for explanation, I can tell you that from 2011 to 2016 the arbitration case is being conducted. This arbitration case ends with a condemnation of our country, which must pay 1 billion and 200 million leva on the basis of everything you have missed as opportunities all these years to do through a contract with very clear estimates. What is very important to know is that when in 2012 we stop the implementation of the old decisions, which have been for decades, I can tell you that the government of Boyko Borisov at that time was concerned about the state and that when each contract is signed, as well as any execution, should be sufficiently motivated and, above all, explained to the public. That is why in 2016, when this decision on arbitration comes out, you know that our country was obliged to pay this amount, and what the Prime Minister did is to seek the assistance of the Russian side to simplify 90 million interest rates. They were simplified and in fact we only paid what you had negotiated and what you were meant to realize. A referendum was held in 2013. This referendum made it very clear that the Bulgarian society does not, in fact, oblige the Bulgarian Parliament and the government to build the nuclear power plant. Both with today's decision proposed by the Council of Ministers and what the MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB and "United patriots" have proposed is that we can actually give this guarantee that there will be no state guarantees and that there will be no long-term contracts that will be detrimental to the Bulgarian state. Let everything be on the market because communism is gone! And these attempts at corruption schemes, which were adopted during these governments during these decades, I think we should stop and be sincere to the Bulgarian voters! [[Applause from GERB.]] I thank my colleagues who will support the decision and these supplements, which were made by the MPs from GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u121	Mr. Tsvetanov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u122	So that the Minister of Energy and the Bulgarian government can actually fulfil their commitment and protect, first of all, the national interest and the public interest. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. In the manner of conduct, but only in the manner of conduct, Mr. Stoinev, without speaking to the substance!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u124	Thank you, Madam President. It is to you, Madam President, because you allow really to speak untruths and perhaps you should explain to some people that we are condemned because GERB stopped the project. It's the truth! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As long as you signed additional agreements!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u125	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Stoinev! The way you're holding me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u126	GERB signed additional agreements! Yeah, that's the truth. And explain to Mr. Tsvetanov that in a UK, in a Hinkle Point, where there are contracts for the difference, it seems that communism has returned there! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. [[Noise and lines.]] Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, thank you for your constructive debate. Thank you for the positions that have been expressed. Thank you for the questions that have been raised. Each of these issues can be defined as very important, very significant, but what remains as a feeling in me from today's debate is that there is a consensus on a fundamental issue and this fundamental issue is that we all together have the desire, the intention and the political will to seek a solution to this issue related to the NPP Project Belene, which, as has already been mentioned here, stands in Bulgarian energy for more than 37 years on the agenda. I think that's the most important thing. I am surprised that the topic related to the need to repeal the 2012 Parliament Decision has become a major topic and it seems that this is also the main difference between the two decisions that colleagues from BSP have proposed and, respectively, colleagues from GERB and "United Patriarchs." In this regard, I would only like to make the following clarification: you are the people who create the laws in the country and actually much better than I do know that when one type of public relations is rearranged, then there is this act, which is the last act, what is actually taken as a decision, so I think that there is virtually no difference in the positions and there is no difference in the decisions being proposed. And since Mr. Boychev raised the question of whether I enjoy the trust of my colleagues, whether I resigned, I would like to ask just not to shift the subject. She's very important! Whether I have confidence and therefore enjoy the confidence of the parliament and the government enjoys its trust, I think it is more than clear, because the proposal, which the Political Party GERB and the colleagues of the "United Patriarchs" made, reiterated the proposal, which was approved by the Council of Ministers accordingly. This topic is much less important. The important topic is related to the common solution, with the political consensus on this extremely important topic, because without a sustainable solution in terms of the possibility of realization of the NPP project, and for this to protect our national interests there will be no consensus if we do not have a broad consensus and a broad consensus to guarantee sustainability of such a solution. As far as the project is concerned, I would just like to clarify a few basic elements. Many things have been said here, almost everything has been said, but, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not in the hypothesis to decide whether Bulgaria needs a new nuclear power. We're in a completely different situation, completely different. Such a decision was taken a long time ago, back in time and, by the way, this decision has never been repealed by the Council of Ministers or by the Bulgarian Parliament by the 2012 Decision, respectively, since 2013. The situation is like this: you see and in the very last decision of the National Assembly it is said: it obliges the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism (then) to take action to build a new nuclear power on the site of 45 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy is never questioned. Here the question is another and it consists of how in the best way to protect our national interests. And when we are looking for an answer to this question, we need to know the following... the situation of 2012 and today is radically different. In 2012, there were several key questions which were not answered. The first and most important issue was the structure of the project. We had no clarity to the last of what the structure of the project would be. We all remember how 2008, then, the strategic investor made a condition to sign the contract between NEK and Atomstroyexport. Such a contract was not signed and the strategic investor left the Project in 2009. Then there was another question mark on the Arbitration, which was launched in 2011, that is, we had no clarity on how it would end. This question was answered only in mid-2016. The European Union's energy policy was radically different from that which the European Union very clearly and categorically states today. This is a very important element that should also be taken into account. And another very important element and a very significant difference between then and now the existence of real investor interest by companies that are recognized at global level as leaders in the field of nuclear energy. There are a lot of differences, and I think none of us are interested in going back, looking for guilt. We need to look forward and with common efforts to try to do something good for Bulgaria, which will also guarantee our energy security, which will also enable this money that the Bulgarian taxpayers have invested in this project - a little over 3 billion. BGN, be used for what they are intended for. Once again, I will allow myself to repeat that I do not actually see the difference between the two decisions, since the measure, the decision in force is what Parliament will express as will within today. And tomorrow in the talks with potential investors, because Mr. Boychev raised the question of what I will show them I will show them the decision that Parliament will take today. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you once again for the constructive dialogue! I welcome you, I invite you all to support the draft decision of the Political Party GERB and "United Patriarchs" because it really reflects to the fullest extent the interests of our country and of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u129	Thank you, dear Minister! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues, I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote the draft decision submitted by Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs....................... was read to you at the beginning of the debate. I put to the vote a draft decision repealing a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of "Belene" which was promulgated in the Official Journal on 28 February 2012, with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 195 MPs: for 74, against 40, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a draft decision to re-establish the search for opportunities to build the nuclear power plant "Belene" jointly with a strategic investor on a market principle and without providing a state guarantee, by separating the assets and liabilities of the project "NPP" "Belene" in a separate project company with importers Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. Vote 188 MPs: 172 against 14, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. A declaration has been made on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on a matter related to the unacceptable actions of Bulgarian MP...........................injuring the authority of the institution National Assembly, of Bulgaria as a state and causing conflicting feelings in our countrymen abroad. On 1 June 2018, a Cultural Information Center of the Bulgarian National Minority was opened in the village of Zvontsi, Babushnitsa Municipality. The event was attended by: the Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to Belgrade Mr. Radko Vlaikov, the Consul General in Nis Edvin Sugarev, the Chairman of the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad? Petar Haralampiev, Krassimir Bogdanov, MP and member of the Friendship Group Bulgaria? Serbia, the Mayor and the Chairman of the Municipal Council of Babushnitsa Municipality, representatives of municipalities from the Republic of Bulgaria. Guest was also the national representative from the political party Volja. and Chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad. In their speeches, all representatives of Bulgaria expressed concern about the situation of the Bulgarian minority in Serbia, the poor economic situation and depopulation of the Zvon region and the opportunities that pre-accession funds, cross-border cooperation projects and others to improve economic conditions in the Western suburbs. They said the Bulgarian support in view of the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia on EU membership and called for protection of the rights of the Bulgarian national minority. To the general surprise, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Donchev's statement was in complete conflict with the previous ones. He turned to the Bulgarians present with, I quote: "The company of Yugoslavia is apologizing for NATO bombings," he called on the people present, apparently, Serbs, not a Bulgarian minority, that they do not need to join NATO and the European Union, pointing out that Bulgaria did not receive anything. [[(noise and lines from.... ……]] that the country is in ruin that there is no army and will soon hold a referendum on Bulgaria's exit from NATO. In conclusion, Mr. Donchev announced that local people should not expect anything good from Bulgaria. On his part, not a single word was said about the rights of the Bulgarians, about the opening of this Cultural Information Center and its importance or to raise the issue of the needs of the local people and the opportunities for Bulgarian support. His statement caused confusion in the people who expect a consistent policy for protecting their rights, promoting investment and improving economic opportunities from Bulgaria. Moreover, the cultural event was attended by Serbian media, which can use his words, said after all by the President of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad, and declare this opinion as a position of the Commission or at all the attitude of the Bulgarian state towards our compatriots abroad. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that Mr. Donchev's speech is unacceptable by a Bulgarian MP. It severely undermines the authority of the National Assembly and the Bulgarian state. This is not the first such action of the Member of the National Assembly in question. I remind you that when visiting Ukraine last year the same spoke to the local Bulgarian community and guests from Bulgaria in a language other than the Bulgarian one. The meetings of the Commission entrusted to him are held incompetence on the problems of Bulgarians abroad, while constantly exceeding the rights of the President in order to extract internal political dividends. All this leads to conflicting feelings and hesitation of our countrymen abroad. In sharp opposition to the Bulgarian national cause and suggests for the protection of foreign, non-Bulgarian interests. In view of the above, Madam President, Mr. Donchev should immediately resign as Chairman of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we have students from the secondary school of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov from the town of Primorsko. Let's say hello to them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next point in our program: PROJECT OF THE People's RESTRUCTURING DECISION FOR THE ACQUISITION OF THE PROJECT OF THE INVESITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF THE MACHINE BRIGAD AND THE ACTUAL PROJECT FOR THE INVESITIONAL EXPECTION OF THE NEW TIP BOEN Mr. Popov will introduce us to the Defense Committee report. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoli Velichkov, Chief of Defence General Andrey Botsev, Commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov and Deputy Commander of the Land Forces Brigadier General Valeri Tsolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u133	Please vote on admission of persons to the Chamber. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. General Popov, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, colleagues! This Regulation of the Defence Committee on the draft decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of the Project of Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade' and of an updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft', No 802-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 5 June 2018, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft Decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of the Project of Investment Expenditure 18 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Minister of Defence and Minister of Defence, Mr. Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence, General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence, Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force, Brigadier General Valeri Tslovov, Deputy Commander of the Land Forces, Mr. Iliya Nalbantov, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Defence, and Ms. Vanya Denevska, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. An exhibition of the reasons for the draft decision was presented by the Minister of Defence Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov. He pointed out that the changing strategic environment imposes new, increased requirements for the development of defence capabilities. In this context, the defence ministry's efforts are aimed at maintaining modern and combatable Armed Forces, which should be adequate to the new challenges and be in line with NATO's defence planning and defence capabilities development process in the European Union. In their presentations, the commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov and the Deputy Commander of the Land Forces Brigadier General Valeri Tsolov on both projects consistently pointed out that re-arming with new fighting equipment would contribute to overcoming the existing deficit of capabilities, achieving the necessary interoperability of the Bulgarian Armed Forces with the NATO and European Union member states, and would ensure a greater degree of implementation of the tasks assigned to the three main missions of our armed forces. In the subsequent discussion took the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Konstantin Popov, Spas Panchev, Boris Vangelov, Kolyo Milev, Petar Vitanov, Milen Mihov, Simeon Simeonov, Emil Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Hristo Gabzhev, Slavi Netsov. All speakers expressed their support for national security in principle and their understanding that defence and national security issues should be resolved by consensus. A large part of the speakers supported the defence ministry's measures to increase defence spending to 2% of the country's gross domestic product by 2024 and the launch of the modernization projects of the Bulgarian Army. Support was expressed for the deferred payment at stake on both projects as mitigating financial burdens and the industrial co-operation requirements laid down. In the discussion were asked supplementary questions regarding the costs during the life cycle of the acquired products and the need to update them, the acquired armaments of the project for a new type of combat plane, the need to update the methodology, as a factor for choosing an optimal option for a new type of combat plane, the possibility of leasing when acquiring a new type of combat plane. In addition, the speakers made a number of recommendations relating to investment expenditure projects concerning the need for parallel modernisation of our armed forces in combination with measures to increase the motivation of the servicemen, the need for a clearer definition of the parameters of industrial cooperation, clarification of the version and stages of implementation and the method of evaluation of bids for the Project for investment spending.. Acquire basic fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups of the mechanized brigade............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Detailed and justified answers to the questions asked were given by Minister Karakachanov and his team. In addition, they clarified the expected benefits of the requirements laid down in respect of industrial cooperation. It has been said that a large part of the recommendations will be reflected in requests for proposals (RFP), which will be sent to potential contractors. After the discussion was concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 12 votes for the defence committee, without the opposition and 6 votes for abstention, adopted the following opinion: Supports Project for Investment Cost "Acquiring a major fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups in the composition of a mechanized brigade" and a project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a new type of combat plane" and proposing to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the adoption of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring a basic fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups in the composition of a mechanized brigade" and a project for investment expenditure "Actributing a new type of combat aircraft". No 802-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u135	Thank you, Mr. General. With the opinion of the Committee on Budget and Finance, we will be briefed by a Commissioner. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor to introduce us to the position.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" under the Project Decision for the adoption of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of the mechanized brigade' and of the updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft', No 802-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. At a meeting held on 6 June 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defence: Krasimir Karakachanov Minister Karakachanov pointed out that the reasons for the projects are due to the political consensus reached for the accelerated implementation of the projects for modernization of the Armed Forces. General Tsolov presented the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring basic combat equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups of the mechanized brigade" and explained that as part of the commitments made on the implementation of NATO capabilities 2017 package, it is necessary to plan, build and prepare declared formations to be carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down in NATO descriptions and codes for NATO capabilities. The project is divided into two stages: The first stage of the battle, special equipment and equipment to achieve the basic capabilities of three battalion combat groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade. The phase will start with the adoption of the project by the National Assembly. The second stage of the acquisition of special machines with basic subsystems to achieve the full operational capabilities of three battalion combat groups of the composition of a mechanized brigade. The project was developed for a time interval of 12 years. During the first stage is envisaged up to eight years after signing a contract the acquisition of 150 units of combat and special equipment for three battalion battle groups. The estimated cost of the project is estimated to be 1 464 million. lv. with VAT, such as: - for the acquisition of 150 units of fighting and special equipment.. 1 224 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the acquisition of systems and additional equipment - 240 million lv. Source for financing of the project is targeted funding from the central budget through deferred payment. The necessary funds for the implementation of the project will be foreseen in the course of the preparation of the three-year budget forecast, according to the parameters and deadlines for its implementation laid down in the acquisition contract. Major General Tsanko Stoykov presented the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft" and pointed out that in the system of national and collective security of the Bulgarian Air Force important tasks are defined with a number of national and Union documents, and these tasks require modern and capable fighter aircraft. The project covers significant volume and complexity activities that will affect delivery deadlines. In the case of effective organisation of work, the first aircraft may be delivered within two years of the entry into force of the contract. The financial and economic parameters are as follows: for the acquisition of not less than eight fighter planes, depending on the type of aircraft, the amount would be of the order of 1,8 billion. lv. with VAT, the payment will be made for a period of 10 years. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................................. 12 MPs,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance adopted the following opinion: Supports Project for Investment Cost "Acquiring a major fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups in the composition of a mechanized brigade" and a project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a new type of combat plane" and proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to adopt a Project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a basic fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups in the composition of a mechanized brigade" and a project for investment expenditure "Actributing a new type of combat plane". No 802-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018..............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there anyone to present the draft decision? I don't see any requests. It seems to me that I should introduce you to the project before we proceed to the debate: Decision No 342 of 21 May 2018 on a proposal to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project On the basis of art. 16, p. Article 7a 22, para. 2, p. 11b of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, the Council of Ministers HAS DECIDED Asks the National Assembly to accept 1. Project for investment expenditure "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion combat groups of the composition of a mechanized brigade" as set out in Annex No 1. 1.2. Updated project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a new type of fighter aircraft" adopted by Decision of the 43rd National Assembly on 2 June 2016. (DV, No. 43, 2016) according to Annex 2. Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will also introduce you to the draft decision that we are about to vote on at the end of the debates: "Project" DECISION on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups of the mechanized brigade' and of the implementation of the investment cost project "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft' The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts the Investment Cost Project for "Actributing basic fighting equipment to build battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade" as set out in Annex No 1. 2. Adopts an updated project for investment expenditure, which was adopted by decision of the 43rd National Assembly on 2 June 2016. (DV, No. 43 of 2016), according to Annex No 2. The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly. I open the debates on the National Assembly's draft decision. There are recorded MPs for speech. First order of business, Mr. Chukolov. He's in the gym. Come on in. You have the floor, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, we from the United Patriarchs. Yes, we are firmly for the Bulgarian Army to be equipped with modern fighting equipment to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. When I say this, however, we must bear in mind the following. Yes, we have been NATO members since 2004. In 2006 the three coalition ruled Bulgaria, but the Bulgarian government then with the strong support of President Parvanov made sure that in Bulgaria there are four bases that, note, do not benefit from NATO, they benefit from the United States of America. For these four bases, the Bulgarian state does not receive a penny. By the most modest calculations, compared with the lowest fees that the United States pays to other countries, where there are bases, because this is the common practice the US pays for this, by the lowest standards of two and a half billion to three billion so far costs the use of these American bases. They're American bases, from the United States, I repeat, not NATO. It is practical, such examples can be given, the latter is with Israel, by the way, the American state gives fighting equipment.. airplanes, like this in good faith, without money to countries to which it estimates. This question has obviously not been put in front of the United States of America. As a loyal partner of NATO, as a loyal partner of the United States of America, we participated in the Coalition of the Willing, if you will, 2003, if I am not mistaken, against Iraq, 2004, when we were admitted to NATO, even Solomon Passy made a roar at that time. As loyal NATO partners, why didn't we ask them to provide us with fighting equipment? This question should have been raised, but it has not been raised. Now we are faced with over three billion to pay for aircraft and for armor carriers, for these type of land vehicles. Three billion! Three billion! These three billion, however, are they the most profitable thing we're going to get as a fighting technique? I see that this report, which is prepared, if the Decision had such a clause to buy equipment only from countries of the European Union or NATO, we would have made a proposal to drop this because, with the procedure we are discovering, we should strive for the most advantageous deal, naturally, in relation to the quality of the technique we are about to receive. Everyone and the military who are here in this Chamber, if they put their hands on their hearts, it is clear to them that the best technique we can get is not exactly from NATO and the European Union. Yes, it will be compatible with their standards. Believe me, I can think of the Russian side, probably much better than Bulgaria even knows NATO standards, would prepare such a technique and it would be much more profitable for Bulgaria if we bought such a technique. Here, however, in Table 2, we see that Russia has received such a proposal for newly manufactured aircraft to purchase, and in Table 5 it is recorded: a list of countries and types of fighter aircraft to which the Ministry of Defence intends to send the RFP. That's, I guess, a request for offers that would give us. There Russia is absent. If we really are going to make this cost for these three billion, we should not limit ourselves by this indicator alone. Let's say, no, we want planes just this guy, this guy, but not the others. Why? That way, we're barely predicting which planes to buy, where to spend that three billion. And we should not do this because it is not profitable for Bulgaria. Yes, colleagues also said this: if you don't feed your own army, you will feed someone else's army. However, let us raise the question of who will feed our pensioners. This is also very important because it is a huge cost. Yeah, it's been rescheduled over the years. However, these millions, which are paid in the years ahead, if we turn them into pensions, would be a pretty bad comparison if it had to be done. Anyway, right now, we are feeding foreign pensioners, I mean CEZ, who is here in Bulgaria. Let us ask the question who will feed the Bulgarian pensioners, if we do so pun intended, with the saying of the foreign and Bulgarian army. I saw in the introduction that was provided to the MPs because I took the trouble to read all the documents attached to this decision that we should buy combat planes, honourable colleagues, because the events in Ukraine and Syria imposed a re-evaluation of the response capabilities of NATO and the European Union, including the Republic of Bulgaria. In fact, it turns out that we will buy planes because there is a war in Syria against the Islamic State and in Ukraine, where the Ukrainian state attacks its own people and fights civil war. That's why we're buying planes. I thought I'd read here that we should buy planes because someone has to protect the Bulgarian sky. Not to mention the Turkish state protecting the Bulgarian sky, as well as such things have been heard. That's what I thought I'd read in that document. And here I read that we buy these planes because something happened in Ukraine and Syria. So we're actually buying them to attack, right? We will participate in these conflicts in Ukraine and Syria, with such intentions will we spend three billion? I can't accept that. To conclude, honourable Members, I will tell you the following: yes from the "United Patriarchs" we raised the issue of pensions and incomes in Bulgaria, we have been asking for years, years, years and years. [[Noise and lines.]] The election campaign, the agreements we concluded with Party GERB, when we formed the coalition that is currently ruling in Bulgaria, this was set there. These are the priorities we need to pursue, these are the real priorities. Both Syria and Ukraine during the election campaign were not involved. So again, to conclude, I call on everyone: let us think about this. It must be clear to both Bulgarian citizens and the people who will implement the decisions that we will make today that they do not limit, there is no such restriction. There is only a requirement for compatibility with NATO standards. Okay, these compatibilitys would be covered by equipment produced in non-EU countries outside NATO. Let's not have these illusions. This money must be spent precisely for the most optimal solution Bulgaria needs, namely: the comparison price and quality. Let's focus on this, and that's what the Department of Defense has to work for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Are there any lines? Mr. Angelov has a line. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague and friend Mr. Chukolov, I listened carefully to your speech, but I think it was in a completely different direction. I will tell you that you have not answered the most important question, which is the basis of today's debate. By reading to you art. 9 of the Constitution, you'll see what I mean. Article 9 of the Constitution: The Armed Forces guarantee the sovereignty, security and independence of the country and protect its territorial integrity. My question, Mr. Chukolov, to you is: can we, in this situation, in that for 30 years, the Bulgarian army has not been modernised, can we, in the current state of our armed forces, guarantee our national security at the moment? This is the main issue of this debate. My personal opinion as an officer of the Bulgarian Army, yes, a humble captain, here in the Chamber many colleagues are Colonels, some generals, Admirals, but my humble opinion is also as a captain of the Bulgarian Army I will tell you that we cannot now guarantee our national security. For information on the available composition of the armies of our Balkan countries, we are not talking about the superpower of the area Turkey.. 600-thousand army; Greece.. 210 thousand, bankrupt state and yet rearmed; Serbia... 120 thousand army; Romania................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What are we doing, Mr. Chukolov, with our 25,000 people right now? That's why the army must be rearmed at all costs. You're talking about techniques here. And the American technology is very good, and the Russian technology is indisputable. However, this is a question of another debate. At the moment, the debate is another one to guarantee our national security, and this can only be done by re-arming the army. If we don't rearrange our army, history remembers it, Bulgaria becomes an appetizing piece of territory, nothing more. The world has fought 14,500 wars so far and will continue to fight them. At least the great wise men and philosophers of different races say it: "This is how mankind will be. " In order to guarantee our national security, it is undeniable that we have an army to guarantee our sovereignty. A great man had once said in a great work of his own: Freedom is the greatest good in this world, but freedom is at the top of the spear. That's what the great Miguel de Cervantes says. I say something else: the sovereignty of today is the greatest good. Because our politicians, too, when they sit down and negotiate, are viewed by other countries in a completely different way when you have a modernized and good army behind you. That's what Bismarck called him at the time a real politician. Everything else is just babble, and a country without an army is practically not a country. Undoubtedly a very important debate. We will strongly support the re-arming of the army. We're too late. At last there is a Bulgarian government, finally there is a military minister patriot who after all these years, I repeat, after 30 years we will move on to modernization of our army.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u141	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. In fact, you asked for a line, and you went smooth to a statement. I'll give Mr. Chukolov a chance for the back of your line. One more line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to participate in the two minutes for the reply, because then I will base my main speech on the subject at issue in more detail. Ladies and gentlemen, generals, Mr. Deputy Minister! Mr. Chukolov, I have a correction for you first. The bases that you quoted are not American, but Bulgarian and not bases, but polygons, whatever. The other adjustment in terms of factology is that since 1994 the Americans have invested money in the refurbishment and maintenance of these bases. Next, if they have their property, as you put it, it is only mobile and portable. Everything else is Bulgarian. The main staff is Bulgarian, from Bulgarian officers, sergeants and soldiers. I am interested, as an officer of the Bulgarian Army I have served mainly on the Soviet Armed Forces. I don't mind his qualities. For many years now we have been members of NATO and as such we are obliged not only to purchase the best technique that exists in the world, but this technique must meet a number of criteria that have nothing to do with just its tactical-technical characteristics. In connection with your speech, I would like to ask you: how do you see the Russians selling us a technique that is compatible with NATO standards? A simple, brief question: getting to know planes from the ground and from the air how will it happen to Russian planes and NATO planes? It's simple stuff. I don't have time to justify my point any longer. I would ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u144	Thank you, Madam President. What document precisely states that we are obliged to buy equipment from countries that are members of NATO? Which document exactly? I doubt such a document exists. I see in the documents presented to us that eventually we can buy from Israel. Israel is not a member of either NATO or the European Union. If the assignment states that we want this type of compatibility, believe me, we will get this type of compatibility from both the Russian state and much more profitable. In relation to my colleague Atanasov. Yes, we find that at the moment in Bulgaria we do not have the necessary, with adequate armaments. Why? Well, because after 28, 29, it will be 30 years after 10 November we systematically destroyed the technique we had in Bulgaria under the good eye, under the command of American, NATO experts who came here. We cut up our missiles, remember, we cut up rockets that cost and guaranteed our national security in a very strong and appropriate way. We cut them up. Just those who convinced us that we should remove our weapons now tell us: no, buy ours, but their weapons are already worth billions. This, of course, is a business, and it's a huge supranational business. Yes, we are now involved in this business, but we are not from the country that wins, unfortunately. This technique, which was destroyed in Bulgaria, then the Bulgarian military were not yet members of NATO, even in the Bulgarian society there was no consensus about it. Not to mention there wasn't a referendum on it. Then why did the Bulgarian military, when they destroyed the technique, why did you keep quiet then?! I am not a general, I am not a captain, as Mr. Atanasov said, I am a corporal, but I have kissed the Bulgarian flag and I have sworn. When you take an oath to protect the state, then protect it when you see that the resource you're using to protect your country is taken away. I didn't hear that at the time. Rather, there were journalistic materials, journalistic investigations, journalistic analyses of why this was destroyed. I didn't hear the Bulgarian military go against it then, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Next statement said Mr. Slavcho Atanasov. Will there be a statement? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is an honor to Minister Petkova that he is present at the entire debate in connection with NPP Belene, and no honour does Minister Karakachanov that he is not present in this important debate at the moment. [[Replying in the hall.]] Yes, with all due respect to the Deputy Minister, what I would like to do as a procedural proposal, we have the right to rest after an hour of the previous vacation. Please announce a break and wait for Minister Karakachanov to attend the debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u147	It's been an hour, but we have less than an hour until the end of the session, so I can't give it a rest. We continue with the speeches. We'll be in touch. [[Heckling]] I understand that Minister Karakachanov is in Brussels. That's why the Deputy Minister, our generals, the Chief of Defense is here. Come in for your speeches, fellow Members. Here you are, General Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u148	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear Mr. General Botsev, Dear Generals! My speech will begin by saying that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has always been about the modernization of the armed forces and the Bulgarian Army in particular. Over the years, we've always been for the army, for the armed forces. The problem has always been about the way the projects are presented, the way they are implemented and the doubts about non-corruption schemes. Today, as on the issue of the nuclear power plant, I expect there to be a consensus in this House to finally resolve the issues of modernization of the armed forces. This is primarily related to Bulgaria's national security and not only to our self-esteem as Bulgarians. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter where we belong, the question is how we stand on the military-political stage. It is for this reason that I believe that these projects, although very late in time, have been spoken here for more than 30 years, but the last 15 years have been talked about the Ground Forces and eight years about the Air Force, to say also about the Naval Forces until the autumn of last year. But both for NPP Belene and for modernization of the Bulgarian army there is no political will. This isn't about billions. It's true, these billions need to be secured. But who are these statesmen who don't think about defending the country and don't think about where they're going to provide these funds? They should be together with all other health problems, education, social security, pensions and military problems. Unfortunately, these projects are aimed only at declared forces and funds. Mr. Hristov is in front of me and knows that in the armed forces and in the Bulgarian Army in particular there is only one mechanized brigade that is declared and certified to participate in the full range of NATO operations. We had the honour with him in autumn 2008 to certify the 61st Stryama Mechanized Brigade. As we are talking here about battalion battle groups and their amplification, it is precisely three battalion battle groups that are precisely in this brigade, and also about the rotation of these three battalions, the 1st and 3rd in Karlovo, and the 2nd in Kazanlak, and the entire brigade without rotation for participation in NATO operations. As you can see, our concerns are different. The worries are that speaking like this in time, we keep talking and I don't believe that what we're going to accept today is going to happen if they're going to vote. Because there's talk of battalion battle groups again -- one part of them to happen by 2026, 2028, and the other part has a second project. But every battalion battle group, no matter how reinforced it is with firepower, mortars, air defense and all logistics and special security, cannot perform its tasks unless there is a subsequent modernization project. God forbid any political power that takes power, these priorities continue, complete them. In the Deputy Minister's face, I can see the support, but our companies "Terem" have already distinguished them that even if a ready license is to give us for any machine, even the most ordinary one, for both the production of arms and equipment, we will hardly get the capacity. Here it is mainly about "Terem" "Khan Krum" "Tergovishte." It's the same for the former airport in Count Ignatievo. Then I'll stop by the plane. It's about 22nd base, not to mention big talk about Karlovo and Count Ignatievo, that's what this is about. These 150 machines from the battalion battle groups will enter Karlovo and Kazanlak, and the planes will also be in Count Ignatevo. One plane or eight planes won't solve the problem either. It is true, here is the question: where will they be purchased from NATO countries, will they be from non-NATO countries in the European Union, outside of both? That kind of doesn't matter, but the funds that are set down also predestined the plane. I can tell you later so you don't feel some lobbying here just for a certain type of plane, and it feels. For the war machines. In years, additional projects will be expected for special equipment and ammunition that are not included and for special forces, but for the plane we did not record it as a new type, but a multi-purpose fighter plane. That's not written down. There are all kinds of interpretations in the whole application of the Project, but it is not written down. And you know that the Air Force provides the Ground Forces with 90% of their tasks. Here again, it comes down to the declared forces and basically to the Air Fleet. Personally, as a Bulgarian general, MP and politician, I want our planes to be multi-target and solve the problems of the Land Forces and the Navy. Because we're in a hurry again, and all three projects had to go in together. I was jealous that we were only discussing the Navy and the Air Force for 15 years, and the Ground Forces have been lying to them for 15 years. Fifteen years! Now they're lying to the Navy because of some other priorities that the 12th might be told. That is why our group will support this project - I will personally support it, I invite them to support it and look at the state. It is high time our country had national objectives and priorities and no government allowed themselves to separate from them. Both projects have many cons and many weaknesses. Perhaps the colleagues will be affected, but they are not the most important. The important thing is to make a decision to give modernization of the Bulgarian Army because there are great stories about the armed forces. We are not even talking about defence here, we are only talking about declared forces and funds, these are not defences, and defence has other tasks to protect the territorial integrity of the country and not about territory, as some say we can become one. I invite everyone as one to vote for the projects! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u149	Thank you, General Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Vangelov asked for a statement. Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] Please extend the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try not to repeat the views of the speakers before me, which I fully agree with, and with most of General Milev's speech, too. I will only focus on the fact that 28 years in Bulgaria the Bulgarian army has not been upgraded, has not acquired basic fighting equipment. Unlike other sectors where the state is committed to their development, no new main fighting equipment has been acquired in the Bulgarian Army until now except for transport planes and helicopters. Since my time is limited, I would like to inform with a few figures whether it is really about some colossal cost which is almost impossible for Bulgarian taxpayers. For last 2017 our defence spending is 1.23% and Bulgaria's gross domestic product for 2017 is over 100 billion. lv. The third project will also enter the plenary, but first it will pass through the Council of Ministers The Armed Forces Project. He's not abandoned. On the contrary, we'll be watching him soon. So for the three projects, Bulgaria will have to pay around 300 million a year. lv. [[Heckling]] I am talking about the three projects, which makes 0.4% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. If we are a people who cannot afford 0.4% to modernise their army, then I can only leave it without comment. I think the Bulgarian people are creating a country for a reason and we are here for a reason 1400 years and before that, because we have a country open and we know that a country without an army is not a country. In addition, we must respect the contracts from Wales, Warsaw and Brussels and reach 2% of gross domestic product. This means that if the medium-term forecasts for the development of Bulgaria's economy are fulfilled, in ten years we will have 190 billion gross domestic product, and bear in mind that this whole project, which is to be implemented for the three modernizations, will take a decade, that is, the cost of defence in percentage terms of gross domestic product will become even smaller if it grows, and all forecasts expect it to grow. For these reasons and the industrial cooperation envisaged to ask for licenses, production in Bulgaria and so on, which will develop our military industry even more and will raise the standard, will increase the salaries in defence for all these reasons and because there is no longer time to postpone modernization, because after ten years it will be too late to upgrade, we from.......................... we will support the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian armed forces. That's what I'm graduating with. Long live the glorious and invincible Bulgarian army!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Replies to the statement of the MP Vangelov? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Honourable Chief of Defense, Generals! After a year lost to the Bulgarian Armed Forces, we support any attempt to take concrete steps to modernize the Bulgarian Army. That needs to be made clear. It is clear to all of us that our army is facing very severe problems related to chronic underfinancing and short-term governance in the sector over the last decade, characterised by lack of staff, unreliable equipment, which calls into question its constitutionally-changed duties. BSP, for its part, has always been consistent in its support for the modernization of the Bulgarian Army and in a way that does not oppose this area to the other components of the security system, including education, healthcare and social policy. Because we are deeply convinced that any investment in defence, although there is no visible economic initial effect, is the necessary condition for improving the economic environment and for further inflow of investment. BSP will vote for both projects, but this is rather a form of support for the philosophy of proposals, for their conceptuality, and not so much for the content of both projects, as we have certain reservations on them and I will allow myself to mention some of them. Firstly, when we have two projects, I expected them to follow some general structure, to contain common parameters and components, and we actually see two fundamentally different projects. On the one hand, we have a very detailed draft for the aircraft with all the mandatory requirements listed, weapons, technical characteristics, and, on the other hand, we have a telegraphic style, a very comprehensive understanding of the type of armored war machine. I will not think here which of the options would be easier to realize, but we have to say that this is how different expectations are created for their performances. For the infantry war machine, I would like to mention a few particular remarks. Point 1.5.2 refers to the second stage of the project aimed at achieving full operational capabilities. A new Investment Cost Project is envisaged for this stage, but there is no justification for its necessity, no indication of the type, the number of machinery needed, or a financial framework. In the third Roman "Species of the project" the technical parameters and requirements are missing, not specified the armaments. There is no clarity about the time and mileage of the warranty support. It's not written in detail and industrial co-operation. By the way, here's a remark. I have no explanation for why there is no steering committee, there is no political-military committee as was in the other PIR. Another thing that concerns VAT, because under the International Contracts Act, under a contract, the VAT should not be charged. In this order of thinking, if so, what do we do with the uncharged value added tax, are we returning it to the budget, or are we using it to buy new planes? On the plane in t. 3.1.2 for the acquisition of arms there is a second boulette, which provides for the purchase of mobile stationary targets on the surface with high accuracy of impact (later). So without a high-powered weapon, the plane won't be multi-purpose, but it'll be operationally ready for air only. And this later stage actually means that this weaponry is not the subject of the contract, but what its value is, because it is also important to mention it, because, together with integrated logistical support, they represent a very serious cost which is even indicated that maintenance of the life cycle exceeds twice the cost of purchasing these projects. One more thing that makes an impression on me. I believe that part of the list of types of fighter aircraft to which the Ministry of Defence intends to send RAP from Table No 5, do not meet the mandatory basic requirements of Table No 3. And I give one example: the Portuguese F-16s, which are from 1984, have less than 50% of the assigned calendar operation. Another part of these proposed aeroplanes do not meet the financial parameters. I mean, I think there's an impression of predestination. And maybe the last of it. 7 The possible legal approaches to realization, there is something that awakens, to put it mildly, ambiguity in me, the weapons are defined to be purchased with a separate contract from the US government. If we buy Raffal, I ask, French fighters, why...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u153	They don't produce!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u154	No, on the contrary, there's French weapons, there's French missiles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u155	Mr. Vitanov, please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u156	And that will be the end of my remarks. I repeat: BSP will support the projects, but this is rather a kind of support at first reading and we will retain our right to reconsider our vote if we see that there is a certain dose of predestination in the projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Now you have the opportunity for lines. Is there anyone who wants a line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister, gentlemen generals! You started, Mr. Vitanov, with the fact that one lost year has already passed. I can't agree to that. If you believe that what the Ministry of Defense and the commanders of the armed forces have done this year has been a waste of time, come and justify yourself. But I think they did both as a guide and as commanders enough to overcome the deficits we have both in staff, so they worked on both projects, actually on the three projects. It's not a waste of time this thing, but if you can justify yourself, come on in. The other question is one correction. In order to purchase the weapons you spoke of, we need to get to the stage of full operational capabilities, to be ready for them. That is, there are stages to go and there is a purchase of arms when we have already come to work on this stage. So you didn't have a legitimate criticism here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other lines? Here you are, Admiral Manushev. Second line to Mr. Vitanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason for my remark is what my colleague said that short-sighted governance has led to this state of the army for the last ten years. Absolutely not. You know, the '90s didn't have food for the army, we fed it ourselves, we had pigs, ducks, chicken coops, gardens. Half the sailors worked there to feed the army, not arm it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, it was good food, yeah, sure. [[Radio.]] You're joking, but it hasn't been an easy time, and we've been in the last ten years, unfortunately, since the beginning of the changes... Perhaps the reason is not targeted destruction, but underappreciate the importance of the army mostly and the need for financial resources for other sectors that are important to society. Maybe that's how all governments treat each other. But believe me, in 2004, a strategic defence review was made absolutely justified by scientific methods, which envisioned the separation of 2.6% of gross domestic product and from 2004 to 2010. The Bulgarian army had to be fully rearmed into all types of armed forces. Unfortunately, this strategic review was launched, a plan was drawn up, but it reduced itself only to the extraction of weapons and equipment, not to the acquisition of a new one. The three species should have really been upgraded by 2010. I don't know why, what made the Bulgarian government then decide that the sharp change in the strategic environment in 2007 imposed an end to this whole project and a plan to rearm the Bulgarian army and it just didn't happen. Our entire plan then by 2010 was locked in the extraction of weapons and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Admiral. Mr. Toshev, third line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vitanov, I would like to replicate and support what my colleague said before me. Last year she was not lost to the Bulgarian Army. On the contrary, and here I would like to inform all colleagues that the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army in particular are perhaps the most reformed sector in what our state is responsible for. This is done with certain objectives, these objectives have been achieved perhaps over 90% of what is at stake, so we should not talk a little wholesale. We will discuss the report on the state of defence and the armed forces in more detail on this topic tomorrow. The other thing is: we shouldn't take into account the fact that the specification for the new fighter does not record what to do with the weaponry. Take a look at this: the main types of fighter planes that are produced are American weapons, and this is a standard that has been in place for many, many years. And my third remark. Some of my colleagues won't agree, but what's written in the war machine project is better than the fighter. Because you're contradicting yourself. You say the fighter, with these details that are written down, determines what to be. We will talk in more detail about how much to be alive, how much to be physical and moral fitness and so on. However, flexibility, i.e. wholesalely recorded things about the war machine, gives us the opportunity to negotiate it with the Bulgarian economy and, in practice, in the process of manufacturing and the process of arming our war machine, to make it practically free of money. We will prove this, of course, in greater detail in our main statement. So I don't agree with what you said. I'm sorry I broke the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Mr. Vitanov, come in for the back. The time of all groups is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u164	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First of all, Mr. Toshev and Mr. Christov's lines are identical. Why do I think the last year's time has been lost? Well, just because the military's major problems haven't begun to be solved, namely, the subcompletion, the acquisition of abilities. It's the same this year. Maybe for 2018 we'll see. But from May 2017 until May 2018, we have no solution to any of the key issues facing the Bulgarian Army. That's right. And why do I think that the last ten years of government is short-sighted? Well, it seems to me in 2010, you agree, 53% of the budget provided by the Ministry of Defense was cut. Four hundred million less for the Bulgarian Army, which with a build-up leads to nearly four billion, which did not actually enter the budget of the Bulgarian Army. I therefore believe that this governance was short-sighted. Otherwise, Mr. Toshev, you are right, and that is why I said that another question is whether it is easier to implement when we have a detailed written plan, because it is difficult to be flexible in the negotiations, or whether it is a broader outline of the framework. This is again a matter of further negotiations. I'm not here to say what's right. I merely found that the two projects differ dramatically both by structure and by content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. A request was received from the Parliamentary Group for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I absolutely do not accept the grounds of the United patriots asking for my resignation as Chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. During our official meetings in Serbia on the occasion of the opening of the Cultural Information Centre in Zvontsi in my speech, I agreed with those of the pre-speakers. Moreover, I added their comments by expressing my views on the benefits and harms of Bulgaria's membership in NATO. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u167	... You don't represent yourself! You represent the Bulgarian state!...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u168	Wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u169	In all the previous speeches of the speakers before me mentioned in their speeches about Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and not a single person mentioned a word about our membership in NATO. For me this means that there is a change in thinking and this is a positive signal that we are already starting to try to conduct a more sovereign policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u170	Cut the crap!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u171	That is why we do not accept the accusations in the way in which we manage our committee. I have not heard a single argument in favour of the claim of the United Patriarchs that, as chairman, I aim to draw party dividends. I would like to make it clear that protecting the interests of our compatriots, wherever they are in the world, is a top priority for me as President of the Commission. And I've proven it repeatedly with my deeds. If the gentlemen of the United patriots are accusing me of not defending the rights of these people because I do not respond to all the signals that come to me, pointing to corrupt practices and schemes in the procedure for issuing the certificates of Bulgarian origin from their own State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, then I can accept this criticism somewhat. But I can also assure you that the only reason I'm not doing this is because of the lack of documentary evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u172	Are you out of your mind?! He's got papers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u173	As for my visit to Ukraine [[noise, lines and booing from OP]] It was thanks to him that the fair treatment of much of the Bulgarian community there was restored. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u174	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u175	Let our compatriots abroad judge for themselves "they have enough wisdom and see who and how they defend their interests. I understand the efforts of the gentlemen from the United Patriarchs to find a topic with which to attack "Volja" in view of our extremely negative attitude towards the looting deal of their Minister Karakachanov. Their actions for us are very transparent. My resignation request is based on manipulations and a one-sided presentation of facts. [[Unique applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u176	Mr. Angelov, you have the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u177	Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you with the request of the management of the Bulgarian National Assembly, we mean the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Bulgarian Parliament not to allow this person to be posted on behalf of the National Assembly anywhere. Because that's unacceptable. He is in no way entitled to express his personal political views at official meetings. It represents the Bulgarian National Assembly. There is no way to allow such a person to go back to a country and speak foreign languages in front of our fellow Bulgarians! There's no way he can explain NATO! Therefore, my request is. Please do not allow this person to be posted anywhere, because he embarrasses Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u178	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u179	In no way do our countrymen abroad care about their domestic political themes that they express. So my request is really: stop it, don't let it happen, you are the leadership of the National Assembly, stop it, don't let the Bulgarian state become a cutter with similar ones, not to say what.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u180	That's enough. Mr. Angelov, your proposal for resignation, as well as the supplement we have heard, will be taken into consideration and considered by the management of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u181	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u182	Please come in and please do not turn into a dialogue what is happening. We're gonna have a theme at the Chairman's Council. Here you go. But only in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u183	Dear Mr. President, please also do not allow speeches in a personal address. So, I was chosen by the people, not by the United Patriarchs, and I can and have the right to express my views as well as the views of our group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u184	But not as chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u185	I would also ask gentlemen of the patriots as they went to Crimea, were they expressing the state official position? [[Radio in DPS, loud noise and lines in OP.]] Or not!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u186	Mr. Donchev! [[Replications from OP.]] Mr. Donchev, I warned you not to engage in dialogue. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Please, Mr. Angelov! [[Loud noise and lines on the right. People's representative Julian Angelov is going to the stands.]] We didn't... Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u187	For one second!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u188	Here you are, and let me quite...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u189	I'll be very brief. Mr. Chairman, do not allow this person to violate once again the Rules of the National Assembly. In a procedure in the manner of conduct, he makes a statement that he spreads, in which he spreads, including lies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u190	I warned you both. The topic will be continued, but not through the parliamentary platform. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u191	Yeah, but different.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u192	I very much hope it is a different subject to be in a uniform order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u193	It's different, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, I had stated it before the very declaration of a parliamentary group. It is related to the speech, lines and duplicates before we move on to the topic of the declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. However, I wanted to remind both colleagues and you that we are currently at the point of the Project for the acquisition of a new basic fighting technique and for the acquisition of a new multi-purpose aircraft, and not at the point that is actually a State of Defense Report for 2017. When speakers deviate a little more than the topic to comment on the State of Defence Report in 2017 and in previous years, to return them to the topic that is on investment expenditure projects. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u194	Thank you, Mr. Gazhev. I accept the remark. We've really strayed from the subject. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u195	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u196	There are requests, of course. Here you are, General Simeonov. [[National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor.]] If there's time, then fine. You surrender to General Simeonov. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u197	Thanks, I'll be brief. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister of Defence, Gentlemen Generals! After the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO in 2004 with a promised budget for defence from the political elite of 2.6% of gross domestic product was reduced to 1.1% and this is practically a slave to politicians and an excuse, which was in the statement that we would be protected by NATO, for what should so much money be given for defence?........................................................... Of course, those who know the Washington Treaty........................................................................................... 5 treats joint defense, but art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 say that each country must organise its defence and for this defence it is responsible. It was during this period that I told you about that there were enough problems. The modernization of the three types of armed forces is extremely late. This confirms the conclusions in the annual reports on the state of defence, where the state and problems of the available military equipment are shown. We absolutely need to show political maturity and state-of-the-art thinking in terms of modernisation projects. In matters of security and defence, it is necessary to think outside party and act, that is, behavior to be one thing: uniformity, because it is security and defence of the country, and not something else that can be blown up like a balloon. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we absolutely need to stop opposing the issues and security and defence policy with those of health, education and pension insurance and to end this cheap populism that some politicians and some of the parties in parliament have preached. Due to systemic financial shortages, increasing incompetence with personnel and poor condition of outdated weapons and fighting equipment, separate tasks are carried out with restriction and, of course, with many difficulties, not to say anything more severe. The main objective of modernisation is to reduce and subsequently resolve the positively pronounced deficit of capabilities to carry out the tasks assigned to the types of armed forces. The movement for rights and freedoms has always and consistently advocated and defended its positions the Bulgarian army to be equipped and equipped according to NATO standards and requirements, defending national, European and Atlantic values. Our parliamentary group will support the Investment Expenditure Project, and, of course, the choice of the new technique must be a transparent and regulated process in which to strictly respect the country's laws. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u198	Thank you, Mr. General. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any MPs who want to make speeches? General Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear General Botsev, Dear Generals! Today, in the National Assembly, we are looking at two projects for investment costs. I want to divert your gaze in a slightly different direction. What is the role, place and importance of the National Assembly in the re-arming process of the Army and why only in the Defence and Armed Forces Act has such a requirement lv. and up for re-arming for the purchase of military equipment are voted in the National Assembly? Show me what other law has such a requirement? I won't! This is not because money is very big at the previous point we discussed billions, but because we here have to state our attitude towards national security and our attitude towards defence and towards the Bulgarian army as the main pillar of statehood. This is because the National Assembly does provide transparency to make sure that we have made the right decisions. Because it has to have a long-term perspective. Indeed, this right has not been given to the government, and I can say here that the caretaker government made a mistake when, without the National Assembly, a decision which was unfounded and which, here in the National Assembly, was corrected by 127 votes, which is nearly two thirds of what it was! But that's not why the debate is here. This debate isn't even about how many planes we have to buy, what planes, what war machines, how many, what tires. We've had this debate for many years. I am particularly involved in this debate since 2004. Hundreds of people worked in the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Economy through committees, media, all! This debate is not about that! Here in this Chamber, we must make a decision, and it is an important decision whether the Bulgarian Army deserves to be upgraded, to invest funds in defence or in education, in health care, in social activities for the people, as they say! But the defense is also the people! Defense provides security! Defense provides investment! Defense provides jobs! And when it comes to crisis, who are we addressing? To the Army, to go to save people winter, floods, all sorts of things! Isn't it a matter of human life when we send our soldiers abroad? Not to mention that before a military conflict, we are talking about tens of thousands of lives and the result of this military conflict prejudges the future of the nation, presupposes the future of those who will come after us, generations after us. That is why the question must be answered: is it necessary to invest in the modernization of the Army? Yes, it is necessary, because we need the Army to be modern. Because we have an obligation to the Army because it protects us! When we talk that we will have to invest in other directions, well we have not invested in the Army for 30 years, as was said in the purchase of basic fighting equipment. Show me a sphere of our society's activities where nothing new has been bought for 30 years! In health care, in education, what people do for a living! Even in Cleanliness we have new trucks and new trash cans. What do we want from our army? We use new phones ourselves, why don't we use the payphones from 30 years ago? How, then, will we ask our army to do its duty? Yes, the people in the Army are also important. We raised their wages! But is that enough? It's not enough! And the people in the Army themselves want a new fighting technique, but it won't bring them higher wages or make their own villas with that money we'll give! They are simply responsible and they are responsible to the public and to their country, to the country in which they have sworn, and I call on colleagues: to really be responsible at least at their level. And when we vote, the solution is easy: three buttons. Those who press the green button: Worthy, the other two forget them, otherwise they will forget your story! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u200	Thank you, Mr. General. Are there any lines? Here's your first line. We will complete the procedure with the lines and the back and postpone the vote for tomorrow. Here you are, Mr. Hristov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u202	We will complete the procedure with the lines and the back and postpone the vote for tomorrow. Please, forgive the interruption, Mr. Hristov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I deeply respect the professional you are, Mr. General. Many people in recent times, including myself, without having the necessary censure, allow ourselves to speak on this subject. I expected to hear your speech and listened very carefully to it and, at least, as far as the censure allows, I drew a special, very important sentence: Does the Bulgarian army deserve to make such a deal and to buy a technique? Certainly no army in the world deserves to be in the position of the Bulgarian Army, definitely all that we are discussing is necessary. We of Volja, although we declare ourselves against, but for quite other reasons, we would not deny everything that you said. I would like to ask you: You, as a general of the Bulgarian Army, do you think that at this stage the first thing the Bulgarian Army needs is the purchase of planes? Is it not necessary, first of all, to be completed, that is, to encourage Bulgarian young citizens to be part of the Bulgarian army by means of a decent wage, to be dressed and equipped as personal equipment, to be given a decent presence in Bulgarian public life, to be proud even in the way that they look only, if you will, by being part of the Bulgarian army, to provide them, if you will, and normal armament, which is the personal armament, not the heavy but the light weaponry and only then, when we achieve this success, to turn around and buy that part of the equipment, which is actually the most expensive one? I would agree with you, certainly I and my colleagues from... Volya.. will sign with two hands to have the most modern equipment, but let the time come and do it when there are no more necessary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u204	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. General Popov! It is certain that at all that you have put forward to us, no one would contradict, no one would oppose that the Bulgarian army should be modernised, should be adequate to modern conditions, be competitive with its opponents and at the same time be well placed among NATO partners. But I don't understand one thing: when are you sincere? When here, from this tribune, you were against the new plane already chosen, and now you're offering us a solution that will be to replace our technique and we don't know what we're going to choose. You talked to us about some old phones, but what's the guarantee, Mr. Popov, that you wouldn't offer us 30-year-old phones later based on rejected new planes? What will happen to this infantry fighting machine? Did some really old machines come from somewhere? I don't understand who and when is sincere?! Indeed, I agree that things need to change, but with the same pathos you have already rejected really new planes that would have been used by our pilots. From now on and in this direction, yes, we will support this thing, but the path we are going to take is not clear. Are we going to fall into the abyss of the old technique, wonder how to modernize it, or are you going to offer us something really new? I'm not sure you're going to offer us anything new, so I don't believe what they're saying. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u206	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? Mr. General, you have the floor for the doppelganger. Here you go, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to thank my colleagues from Volja. I really like to thank them for their concern for the Bulgarian army. That's true, thank you. Should we move on to buying clothes, new guns and so on? Yeah, and that's true, but one doesn't interfere with the other. We have a 2% vote on this government, a way to get to that 2%. I am afraid as a person who has been involved for many years in this process that if we leave away in the future buying new equipment, it will cost much more and will remain less money for clothing. I apologize for the rough comparisons. Secondly, those people who can't work in normal conditions, exploit modern technology, they run. We will reach the critical minimum when there will be no one to respect, because the people in the army are not just about wages. Wages are important, and we have to raise them, raise them, but they're not just about wages. A flyer, when he can't fly, says, "I can't stay here, looking for a place elsewhere. These people won't be left behind, and when we buy planes, there'll be no one to drive them. This is our thesis, how right it is, I hope it is right. To the second line. What the National Assembly voted on, fellow Members, you may disagree, but then what was it about? Then it was about seeing how the procedures were going. Are there any mistakes in the procedures, whether these procedures that have been carried out, and this decision that has been made does not lead us in the wrong direction? Because it's like a wedding: if you marry those who believe in marriage, it's for life. What if this decision was wrong and the National Assembly voted it that way? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, and now we are talking about the fact that we have walked the way and are here again to vote for the modernization of the army and the measures have been taken as voted by the MPs because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-07.u208	Thank you, General Popov. Dear Members of Parliament, the debate on the draft decision will continue on tomorrow. I will introduce you to the parliamentary control message for tomorrow, June 8th, before closing the meeting: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Anton Kutev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer two questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov; and Anton Kutev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer 7 questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; Ivo Hristov; Dimitar Stoyanov, Georgi Andreev and Lalo Kirilov; Veska Nencheva and Violeta Zhelev; Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev; Petar Vitanov; Manol Genov; Dora Yankova and two questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov; Dragomir Stoynev, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Kolyo Milev, Nikola Dinkov and Nikolay Penev. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Daniel Yordanov; and Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva. 5. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer three questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova [[two questions]] ; Rumen Georgiev and a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Yankova, Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Yordan Mladenov; and Donka Simeonova; and to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Donka Simeonova; Georgi Gokov [[two questions]] ; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, one question from the National Representative Todor Baychev; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova. In the absence of the country's parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski and Economy Minister Emil Karanikov will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Tomorrow's meeting is at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
