ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first Wednesday of the month - there are no proposals from the parliamentary groups. I offer to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 5 "7 December 2018": 1. Abort the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly, resigned by the National Representative Ivaylo Moskovski, 30 November 2018. 2. Second vote on the Bill on Disabled People, which is an importer of the Council of Ministers, 18 October 2018, adopted at first vote on 26 October 2018. 3. Second vote on the Personal Aid Bill "General project drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2018 with importers Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, 2 July 2018; Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 4 July 2018. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, importing the Council of Ministers, 15 October 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act "General project prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 23 November 2018 with importers Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs, 10 May 2018; the Council of Ministers, 1 June 2018; Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, 14 November 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, importing the Council of Ministers, 5 November 2018. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, importers supplied by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov, 3 October 2018. 8. Draft decision to complete the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy, importing the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova, 27 November 2018. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Radio and Television Act importing the People's Representative Vecdi Rashidov, 19 October 2018, adopted on the first vote on 14 November 2018. 10. First voting of Draft Laws amending the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, importers "Alexander Siddy" and a group of MPs, 9 October 2018; Council of Ministers, 5 November 2018. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Code "General project prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 25 October 2018 by the Council of Ministers, 8 October 2018; and the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Hristian Mitev, 9 October 2018. 12. Hearing of the Minister of Energy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the presentation of information in relation to the procedure for the selection of strategic investor (s) for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and the opportunities for structuring of the project, importing the national representative Delyan Dobrev, 4 December 2018, point 1 for Friday, 7 December 2018. 13. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-read Programme Project. Vote 164 MPs: 148, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 28 November to 4 December 2018: - A bill amending the Law on Construction of the Area, importers. "Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, leading is the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management; - A bill for the census of the population and housing fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, importing the Council of Ministers, is about to be distributed; - Draft decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, importing the People's Representative Danail Kirilov, is assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by its order has ordered the dispatch of a military ship with its statutory arms and crew of troops from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria outside the territory of the country from 30 March to 18 April 2019, including for participation in joint preparation in the composition of the Permanent NATO Ship Group, which will be held in the Black Sea, the territorial waters of Romania and Ukraine, and in the ports of Odessa and Constanza. Competent authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the Law. The notification was received on 4 November 2018, with the exception of: No 803-09-71 and granted to the Defence Committee. Next communication: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act in the period 25 October 2018. "24 November 2018, and Protocol No 48 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund of 28 November 2018, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Next communication: on 30 November 2018 from the Ministry of Health in the National Assembly received an Annual Report on the state of health of citizens and the implementation of the National Health Strategy 2020 for 2017. The report is made available to the Committee on Health and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The latest communication from the National Statistical Institute received information about the Stopanska konjuncture, November 2018................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the first item of today's agenda. We have a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On December 1st 130 years of the blissful death of Atanas Mihailov Chalakov, after his 45th year became famous and left an indelible and undeniably guiding trail in the history of the Fatherland and the Balkans as His Holiness Antim Vidinski, exarch Bulgarian. When a nation has 15 centuries of history, every day of its calendar is marked by at least one significant event. That's the kind of people we are, the Bulgarians! And that's why every day of our present is enough reason to remember where we come from, who we are, who we are. Substantial and unruly! Self-awareness is our strength when we are in the eye of another time vortex, when once again the very notions of good, beautiful, significant are tested. Antim is the first Bulgarian exarch, a prominent politician and public figure who has remained in history mainly as a fighter for the independence of the Bulgarian Church and for strengthening its role as a uniter of the people. His words are: "I will be blessed if, with my sacrifice, Bulgaria rises for a new, free life! " The metropolitan Metropolitan Vidinski and Exarch Bulgarian Antim I was born in Lozengrad in 1816. At a young age he accepted monasticism in the Holy Forest and for some time lived in the Hillendar World mansion. There I nursed with sacred patriotism, reading the fiery words in the Slavic Bulgarian history of Reverend Paisii Hilendarski. He graduated from a spiritual school on Halki Island and with a scholarship from the Russian consul in Izmir, entered the Odessa Spiritual Seminary. He continued his education at the Moscow Spiritual Academy which graduated in 1856 with a Master's degree. After returning to Constantinople, the Patriarchate honored him with archimandrite dignity and widely used his high theological training as a lecturer and later rector of the Halkidon Theological School. According to a sultan farm farm of 20 February 1870 for the establishment of the Bulgarian Exarchy an exarch should be chosen to lead and lead church-people affairs and to be a legal representative of the Bulgarian people before the state authorities. When the Church-People's Council sought the Grand Minister for this high and responsible position in this fateful time for the Bulgarians, he found it in the face of Vidin Metropolitan Antim I. On 16 February 1872 he was elected as Bulgarian exarch. The Exarch begins his high church-people ministry with rare skill, diligence and courage. Helped by the Holy Synod and the Exarchate Mixed Council, he quickly arranged the administrative apparatus. However, the difficulties on the part of the Constantinople Patriarchate and the political circles of the foreign state are also not delayed. Mobilizing his moral powers and will, the wise prime minister exarch Antim repulsed any violation of pure Orthodoxy and the rights granted to us according to farmland. Ekzarh Antim I made extraordinary efforts to unite the fragmented people in the conditions of the great upsurge of the national movement at that time and after the announcement of schism. In the autumn of 1875 he met with Hristo Botev and other revolutionaries, gave them money for the preparation of the April Uprising and blessed them with the words: "Be blessed you Bulgarian children! When you return to your comrades in Vlasko, tell them that from the high Exarchic throne on which they have placed us, as you worthy children of Bulgaria, so I will not cease to be the bearer of the spirit of my people, and with the most awakened look and firm perseverance I will walk towards the achievement of his great national task.................................the......................... the...........of the.of his great national...... A really great moral test for the Bulgarian exarch was the April uprising and its suppression with unheard cruelty in the spring of 1876. This barbaric evil compromised the Turkish state to the cultural world. The government decided to organise a public appearance at a meeting of representatives of the peoples of the Ottoman Empire before diplomatic representatives in the capital. Ekzarh Antim was invited by his personal presence or in writing to conceal or deny the disgraceful outbursts, as well as to express the great gratitude of the Bulgarian people from the freedoms given to him. The unblemished conscience and zealous patriotism do not allow the Bulgarian Exarch to change the truth to his people and he firmly refuses by saying: "We cannot thank a government that cars, hangs and oppresses the people! " With a broad political perspective, Exarch Antim plays an important role in attracting the European public opinion of the country of Bulgarian national interests. Moreover, mourning the thousands of innocent victims, he finds a way to make a written announcement of this bloody tragedy the Universal Emperor Alexander II. The reading of this famous document still moves today: If Russia does not stand up for the cruel fate of the Bulgarian people, then let the Bulgarians be deleted from the number of Slavs and Orthodoxs, the exarch states. "Bulgaria to be liberated!" "The response of this call will be." The Turkish government could not forgive these actions of the exarch. His fate was decided. Supposed to be an enemy of the Sultanic Empire, he was forced down from the Exarchic throne on 17 June 1877, sentenced to death, and after the youthful coup, he was pardoned and exiled to Ankara, Asia Minor. Then, in response to the sympathetic words of the Armenian Patriarch, says: "Give God your words to be true, because when they hanged the Greek Patriarch Gregory, a free Greek kingdom was created, and now, if they hang me, this could create a free Bulgarian kingdom. Since exile, the Bulgarian exarch returns to free Bulgaria. The people welcome him with enthusiasm. There is nothing to compare the enthusiasm and enthusiasm of 229 MPs when Prince Dondukov approached Grandpa Antim with a great kiss and asked for a blessing to proceed to the great work and the opening of the Constitutional Assembly in Tarnovo on 10 February 1879. After the drafting and adoption of the Constitution on 16 April 1879 Grandpa Antim, as President, concluded: Ekzarh Antim returned to Vidin and took the lead of the Vidin Metropolitan as Metropolitan, as he was before being elected exarch. Unlike most Russian-minded politicians and Yerei Antim I defends the Bulgarian national interests invariably. When he understands that Russian imperialist interests threaten them, he supports the liberals in the face of Stefan Stambolov and Petko Karavelov, with whom he is a longtime friend. You freed us from the Turks... I wonder who will set us free from you? supposed Antim I Prince Dondukov in 1879 at a banquet on the occasion of his departure to Tarnovo. On November 14, 1885, during the Serbian-Bulgarian war, the Vidin fortress was besieged and the city was threatened by capture. The Commandant and a group of prominent citizens propose to the bishop to cross the Danube and go to Calafat. Antim I refused to leave the besieged Vidin with the words: "This is not worthy of me. The shepherd's corpse must be where the people and the army fall. In 1887, he was a member of the Third Grand National Assembly. After Ferdinand's election as Bulgarian prince Grandpa Antim publicly called on him to respect the Tarnovo Constitution. On 1 December 1888 Ekzarh Antim I betrayed God's spirit in the city of Vidin. In his lifetime he bequeathed his entire fortune for the construction of the cathedral.St. Dimitar, for the construction of a community center and for the development of the educational work in Vidin and built a large two-storey junior high school, which today bears his name. The 100th anniversary of the blissful death of the first Bulgarian exarch Antim once again brings us before the radiant image of the great born primordialist, great patriot, martyr for faith and kin, for free Homeland. Our people's path since then confirms the power and truthfulness of his virtues and sacrifice. The most faithful and complete expression of our honor to him will be our works. We should not forget that without his sacrificial love and without the works of the activists of our church and national independence today we would hardly have had an autocephalous Bulgarian Orthodox Church and rejoice that we live in a free country. But God blessed us with true fathers, with spiritual shepherds who laid their souls and put their lives in the foundations of our church and people's freedom, and in their prayers we must continue their work... Bow and eternal gratitude to the bright memory of Antim I, Exarch of Bulgarian! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. We move on to the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was received from Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski, MP from the Fifteenth Election Region. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Signature: Respectfully, Ivaylo Moskovski. A draft decision that I will read to you before I give the floor for speeches has been prepared. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para 1, t.1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski's authority as a MP from the 15th election district of Plevenski. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly read draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Vote 149 MPs: 146, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PEOPLE WITH CONFIRMATIONS. On 18 October 2018, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 26 October 2018. Dr. Ademov, would you like to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow Eleonora Pachedjieva to be admitted to the Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u5	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 133 MPs: 129, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u6	Report on: the bill adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2018 for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. ?????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. ? Chapter 1???????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. The law regulates public relations related to the exercise of the rights of disabled people in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The law aims to: 1. promote, protect and ensure the full and equal exercise of the rights and freedoms of disabled persons; 2. create conditions for social inclusion of people with disabilities; 3. promote respect for the inherent human dignity of people with disabilities; 4. provide support for people with disabilities and their families.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u7	Statements? I can't see. I vote: the name of the Law on the text of the importer; the name of Chapter One on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission; the version of art. 1 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 2 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 137 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u8	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The law guarantees the rights of disabled persons in a way that ensures respect for their human dignity and equal treatment in personal, public and political life by applying an individual approach and an individual assessment of needs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The basic principles of the Law are: 1. personal choice and independence of people with disabilities and their families; 2. equality and non-discrimination; 3. social inclusion and full and effective participation of disabled people and their families in public life; 4. accessibility. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The areas of support for people with disabilities are: 1. healthcare; 2. education; 3. employment; 4. housing; 5. accessible environment in urbanized territories and public buildings; 6. transport; 7. culture; 8. sport; 9. personal life; 10. social and political life; 11. justice; 12. Other areas. (2) The means of supporting people with disabilities for the purpose of social inclusion shall include: 1. medical, professional, social, labour and psychological rehabilitation; 2. education and vocational training; 3. services supporting labour realization; 4. accessibility and reasonable facilities; 5. social services; 6. financial support; 7. accessible information; 8. access to justice and legal protection; 9. providing personal mobility with a maximum degree of independence; 10. personal assistance; 11. Universal design; 12. other funds. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. Foreigners with disabilities who are authorised for long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, foreigners with disabilities who are granted asylum, refugee status or humanitarian status, foreigners with disabilities benefiting from temporary protection and persons for whom this is provided for in an international treaty, to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, enjoy the same rights as Bulgarian citizens with disabilities, provided that the degree of permanently reduced workability or the type and extent of disability are determined by the order of the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Commission Report. They voted 142 MPs: 142, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u10	The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following title of Chapter Two: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The state policy on the rights of people with disabilities shall be implemented by the state and local authorities in cooperation with the national representative organisations of and for the persons with disabilities, the national representative organisations of employers and the national representative organisations of employees who create conditions and assist in the implementation of programmes and projects in this area. (2) State and local authorities shall, in accordance with their powers, adopt, respectively issue regulations, strategies, programmes, standards and other documents relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) For the implementation of the state policy on the rights of people with disabilities, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy: 1. coordinate the activities of the state authorities in order to realise the rights of people with disabilities; 2. develop, participate in the discussion and propose the adoption and/or amendment of regulations, strategic documents, programmes and plans concerning the rights of disabled persons; 3. organize the activities of the National Council for People with Disabilities; 4. organise the activity of granting the status of national representative organisations to and for people with disabilities; 5. provide methodological assistance to the executive bodies for the conduct of the state policy on the rights of people with disabilities; 6. coordinate the collection of data from different institutions and organisations on the basis of which it prepares analyses and an annual report on compliance with the rights of disabled people in sectoral policies; 7. coordinate the implementation of the national commitments on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by law (SG. No. 12, 2012, SG No. 37 from 2012), as well as international acts relating to the rights of persons with disabilities; 8. provide information to public authorities and civil society on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and National Policies; 9. represent the state in international organisations and programmes affecting people with disabilities; 10. direct and coordinate participation in national and international programmes and projects for people with disabilities, including jointly with other state bodies and organisations; 11. maintain contacts with related specialized state authorities in other countries, as well as with international organisations with activities in support of people with disabilities. (2) For the performance of the functions under para. 1 The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall be assisted by a Directorate in the Specialized Administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities is an executive agency of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, a legal person of budget support with the seat of Sofia. (2) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall be represented and managed by an Executive Director. (3) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities: 1. participate in the coordination mechanism in the field of policy on the rights of disabled persons; 2. lead and maintain an information system for people with disabilities; 3. draw up six-month and annual reports on the implementation of the policy on the rights of disabled people, which it provides to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy; 4. keep and maintain a register of persons carrying out activities to provide assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices specified in the lists referred to in art. 61, para. 1; 5. supervise the activities under point 5. 4; 6. keep and maintain a register of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of people with disabilities; 7. develop programs and finance measures to stimulate the business initiative in the interests of people with disabilities; 8. develop programs and finance projects for rehabilitation, integration and for building an accessible environment for people with disabilities; 9. participate in the preparation of draft regulations relating to the rights of persons with disabilities and give opinions on them; 10. publish and maintain on its website information on guidelines and access to the realization of rights for people with disabilities; 11. in the event of a violation of the rights of disabled persons shall report to the competent authorities to take action; 12. carry out other activities as defined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (4) The activities, structure and number of staff of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter Two to the vote, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer as art. 7, supported by the Commission; and the revision of Articles 8, 9 and 10 of the Commission Report. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u12	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) In order to carry out the functions of promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a Monitoring Board shall be established. (2) The Monitoring Board shall carry out its activities in accordance with the following principles: 1. protection and guarantee of the rights of people with disabilities; 2. independence and publicity; 3. cooperation and interaction with state and local authorities and with civil society. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The Monitoring Board shall consist of 9 members, two representatives appointed by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, two representatives appointed by the President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, four representatives of the organizations of and for the disabled, appointed by them, and one representative of the academic community appointed by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. (2) The term of office of the Monitoring Board shall be 4 years and shall begin from the date of completion of its composition. The members of the council shall carry out their activities until the new composition is established. (3) Organizations of and for persons with disabilities shall determine their representatives in accordance with the rules for the implementation of the law. (4) The activities of the Monitoring Board shall be administered through the administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for protection against discrimination on a rotational basis for a period of two years. (5) The Monitoring Board shall be represented by a Chair and Vice-President. (6) The President of the Monitoring Board shall be a representative of the institution which shall administer the activities of the Monitoring Board under para. 4. (7) The Vice-President of the Monitoring Board shall represent the organisations of and for the disabled, elected by them, on a rotational basis for a period of one year. (8) In the absence of the Chair, its functions shall be exercised by the Vice-President. (9) Representatives of other institutions, organisations, independent experts, employers, trade unions and others may be invited to the meetings of the Monitoring Board. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) A member of the Monitoring Board may not be a person who: 1. performs a public service; 2. is placed under an obstacle; 3. is convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature unless it has been rehabilitated. (2) The limitation under para. 1, t. 1 shall not apply to the representatives of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. The Monitoring Board shall: 1. draw up opinions, recommendations and proposals to the responsible institutions for preventing and suspending violations of the rights of persons with disabilities; 2. prepare annual reports on the actions taken to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; 3. carry out a periodic review and evaluation of national legislation, practices and draft regulatory acts on compliance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; 4. implement other activities related to the promotion, protection and monitoring of the implementation of the Convention. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The Monitoring Board shall hold its meetings at least once every three months. (2) The meetings shall be regular if more than half of the members of the Monitoring Board participate in them. (3) The decisions of the Monitoring Board shall be taken by a majority of more than half of the members present. (4) The members of the Monitoring Board shall not receive remuneration for their participation in it. (5) The Monitoring Board shall adopt its rules of procedure and the organisation of work. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The Monitoring Board shall work on the basis of an annual programme adopted by it. (2) The Monitoring Board shall annually present, for information to the National Assembly, a report on its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's amendment to Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 on the Commission report. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u14	Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) National Council for Disabled Persons, hereinafter referred to as the National Council, shall be established for cooperation in the development and implementation of the policy on the rights of disabled persons of the Council of Ministers. (2) The President of the National Council shall be Deputy Prime Minister. (3) The National Council shall be an advisory body with the participation of representatives of the State appointed by the Council of Ministers, the national representative organizations of and for people with disabilities, the national representative organisations of the employees, the national representative organizations of employers and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The National Council shall give opinions on the draft regulations, strategies, programmes, plans and other acts affecting the rights of disabled persons. (5) The National Council shall cooperate with the coordination and surveillance bodies under the law. (6) The members of the National Council shall not receive remuneration for their participation in it. (7) The activities and organisation of work of the National Council shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The central and territorial authorities of the executive shall designate staff entrusted with the functions of coordinators of the rights of disabled persons. (2) The coordinators under para. 1: 1. participate in the development of policies and programmes in the area of the rights of people with disabilities; 2. participate in the development, implementation and reporting of regulations, strategic documents, plans, projects, analyses and reports in the area of the rights of disabled persons under the authority of the relevant authority; 3. coordinate the implementation of the measures within the competence of the relevant authority and participate in the preparation of reports on the rights of persons with disabilities; 4. coordinate the collection and dissemination of information and good practices in the area of the rights of disabled persons within the competence of the relevant authority; 5. perform other functions in the area of the rights of disabled persons assigned by the relevant authority. (3) The functions of the staff appointed as coordinators of the rights of disabled persons shall be defined in their official characteristics or by order of the appointing authority and the employer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) For carrying out the policy on the rights of people with disabilities, regional governors shall establish regional councils. (2) The regional councils shall include representatives of the district and municipal administration, territorial authorities of the executive, national representative organisations of and for disabled persons, national representative organisations of employees and employers, non-profit legal entities for public benefit activities, as well as other persons working in the field of the rights of disabled persons. (3) The district councils shall assist and assist the district governors in implementing, analysing, developing strategies, plans, measures and other activities related to the implementation of the policy on the rights of disabled persons at regional level. (4) The members of the district councils shall not receive remuneration for their participation in the meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Articles 17, 18 and 19 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u16	"Chapter 3" is an individual assessment of the needs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 20, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21, which becomes Art. 20: Art. 20. (1) Persons with disabilities according to their needs shall be entitled to an individual assessment of the needs which is complex. (2) The assessment under para. 1 examines the functional difficulties of the person with disabilities related to his health status and the existence of barriers to the implementation of daily and other activities, as well as the type of support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u17	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Three, the rejection of art. 20 and the text of the importer for art. 21, which becomes Art. 20, supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u18	Under art. 20 there is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Violeta Zheleva, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Georgi Gokov, Kristina Sidorova, Valentina Naydenova, Vyara Nencheva, Teodora Halacheva, Nikolai Ivanov and Donka Simeonova Art. 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22 (1) The individual assessment of the needs shall be drawn up at the current address of the person with disability by the Advisory Committee at the Social Assistance Directorates at the Agency for Social Assistance, which shall include: 1. expert from the Department of Social Assistance, appointed by the Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance. 2. a doctor appointed by the Director of the Regional Health Inspection; 3. a psychologist appointed by the head of the regional education management; 4. an educator appointed by the head of the regional education management; 5. representative of the municipality appointed by the respective mayor; 6. expert from the Department of Labour, appointed by the Director of the Directorate of Labour and Employment of the Employment Agency. (2) Other specialists shall be included if necessary. (3) The participants in the Commission shall receive individual remuneration from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, for each decision. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 22, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u19	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u20	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! At the heart of the philosophy of the new Law on Persons with Disabilities is the individual assessment of the needs, which will in this case be prepared by a specialized department of the The methodology for carrying out the assessment of the needs for support for people with disabilities is yet to be developed, and the structure of the specialized department, which will be burdened with carrying out this assessment. It will be developed in the Rules of Procedure. In the final version of the Bill, the most positive and the most positive is the so-called........................................................................................ In view of this, a social worker will be tasked with drawing up, with which the currently existing Social Assessment Commission will be removed. Loading for a social worker to anticipate all the needs of the person will be very stressful and unclear in our view. That's why our proposal is in art. 22 The Commission, which will be entrusted with the preparation of the evaluation, will be in the following option: social expert, physician, psychologist, pedagogue, representative of the municipality, expert of the Department of Labour and, if necessary, other specialists, as well as for participation to receive and remuneration for this. I am saying this because it now exists, as I said at the outset, a Commission that prepares this assessment. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, there is difficulty in working, but that is because employees are not motivated to participate in the Commission and quite often do not get together. That's true. Therefore, we propose that there be a corresponding remuneration for each decision. Instead of improving this committee, improving its work, in the Bill, this committee is simply being removed and creating a department with a status that is not yet clear. Again, the social worker is neither an expert in his education nor a person who can objectively assess what people with disabilities need for rehabilitation, medical facilities and gadgets. I would just like to mention that in the reflections of the draft in the Commission, even the Minister mentioned and agreed with our proposal that there is a need for other specialists. I understand that our proposal will not be supported in the bill under consideration, because the working group may support the Project set up at the beginning by all those who have worked very hard on all the proposals. Please, however, in the establishment of the Rules, this need for additional specialists to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we made under art. 22, it is currently reflected in the next article of the report, which we are going to be dealing with. It is related to the specialized departments of the social assistance directorates, which must be established and which must prepare the individual needs assessment. My colleague Violeta Zheleva mentioned a moment ago the need for attraction, sometimes in view of the specifics of the particular case, of external specialists who will certainly not be, how can I say, sufficient in these specialized compositions of the directorates. I don't see what the problem is in para. 2 of art. 21, where we are talking about the specialized compositions of the directorates for social assistance, there should be a hypothesis of attracting external specialists where necessary in view of the specifics of the particular case. In this regard, although the working group has united around the specific text of these provisions, as the colleague said, when examining the Draft at second reading, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy himself mentioned that such hypotheses would most likely arise. Therefore, by setting up the public relations of disabled people in this entirely new Law for disabled people, I think it is not necessary then to review this law, but it is good now to fill these gaps and ambiguities in the Law in order to be complete and meet the needs of disabled people as they really are. In this regard, I call on all of you to do not see the problem of making an editorial amendment in the texts of art. 21, para. 2, where we are talking about the specialized formations, let's add in para. 2, that external specialists may be attracted, if necessary, in view of the specifics of the particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u23	Art. 22 you mean. Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Mrs. Klisurska! The line I want to make for you is that in Bulgaria there are 147. In other municipalities, even in these 147 municipalities it is extremely difficult to find the experts you are talking about. There's even less work desks. You know that there are nine regional directorates of the Employment Agency and even fewer structures of the Employment Agency. In order to find these experts, it is necessary to attract them from other regional structures, which is extremely difficult. These were the arguments of the working group to support this composition, which is provided for in art. 22 of the proposed Bill. I understand your desire for multidisciplinary teams to carry out the individual assessment of needs, but further in the Law, you will also see in the Personal Aid Act, any possibility of subjective assessment has been avoided. There are planned scales, there are precisely defined percentages, so that the ability of these specialized groups to make subjective assessments is reduced to a minimum. This was precisely what the working group argued to support this proposal. And one more thing, the specialized groups will be those 147 people from the "Social Assistance" and representatives of the Agency for People with Disabilities, so that they can be formed afterwards in 2021 when the new Agency for Persons with Disabilities is established. The idea of doing it according to a methodology prepared by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy limits to a minimum the possibilities for subjective judgement and this was the idea when these texts were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u25	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Second line, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u26	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Mrs. Klisurska, your proposal is practically nothing new. The proposal for a multidisciplinary committee is now the current committee that carries out social assessments. The practice has shown that this multidisciplinary committee is not effective, and the social assessments that are made by this committee for people with disabilities are pro-forma and have a recommended character. Why? It is very difficult to find a doctor, psychologist, educator and participate regularly in the meetings of these multidisciplinary committees. Therefore, these committees were very difficult to meet regularly at their meetings. The proposal for the preparation of the individual evaluation by specialized departments of the Agency for Social Assistance is from the working group working on this bill. Representatives of the mothers of children with disabilities participated actively. They also want the individual assessment to be made in a new order, in a new way and by a new composition, because it was they who claimed that the current work of multidisciplinary teams, which were preparing the social assessments of people with disabilities, are dysfunctional and therefore we cannot accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u28	Dear President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Ademov, Dear Mrs. Angelova! If you have listened carefully to what I have put forth as an argumentation regarding external specialists and regarding the revision of the editorial of art. 21 To introduce a second paragraph in order to attract external specialists, you see that we actually comply with the provisions of the proposed new bill, which is related to the preparation of the individual assessment of the needs of specialized groups. What I would like to say to Mr. Ademov, which he outlined with regard to the inability to subjective assessment, the inability to subjective assessment cannot, how can I say, be guaranteed through the methodology prepared. In my opinion, subjective evaluation can come from where the necessary expertise is lacking. In this respect, independent Methodology, where expertise is lacking, may also lead to subjectivity in the preparation of individual assessment. There are specific, specific cases of rare diseases, of rare disabilities, which cannot largely cover these methodological guidelines, which will be drawn up in individual needs assessment. In this regard, I believe that attracting external specialists, where necessary, in the light of specific specifics and cases, are no problem at all, and I do not think that we are in any way conflicting with all the other texts in this bill. Including the Minister of Labour and Social Policy put this out there when we proposed this article and the editorial work relating to the specialized groups. In this regard, it's my backdrop of what you've exposed. Under no circumstances do we wish to repeat the existing situation. On the contrary, we agree that it must be changed, but the expertise that is needed will always be necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Is there a next statement? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Perhaps there is no bill in recent years that has included such efforts by the official institutions, which has aroused and caused such civil and public energy, we are now ahead of its finalisation. A remarkable progress has been made in recent months to solve a problem that is decades old and no government has so far made the effort to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u31	It's a second reading already.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u32	Please listen to me, Mr. Stoinev. It's none of your business...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u33	Mr. Stoinev, let's hear Mr. Shopov's argument. Mr. Shopov, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u34	Finally, when we're in front of art. 21, I think that the majority should have been even more diagnostic and accepted these demands by the mothers of children with disabilities and, in fact, ended this bill with a full public, parliamentary and political consensus. What are we doing again? Once again, we are creating a deficit in public confidence with something that is so easy, acceptable and acceptable and which is really good because it is about the expertise in public committees that will solve specific cases, occasions and cases. The argument that there would be small settlements where this could not happen is irrelevant to me. They can always be drawn, posted and in the smallest settlements, as provided for by territorial committees, specialists who make their judgments and each particular case comes up with a flexible solution that is consistent with the case, because these cases are so complex that we cannot mislead them under one public denominator and in one form. That, on the one hand. Fellow Members of the majority, a huge financial resource is being allocated and this is the least that can be difficult and create problems. Let us know and conclude this discussion and adoption of the Bill with this final decision by adopting these proposals that have been made and knowing that in a remarkable way we have reached a public consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Shopov, we are on the same page today and we will all support this law. [[shows the Law]] and as you can see, our proposals that we are currently making are only for improving the texts. We have great respect for the work of the working group because under exceptional pressure it took over and created this new bill. I believe that it is necessary for everyone, and you will see that this consensus you are talking about has already been achieved with this new law. Thank you for the support you have put forward just now in relation to the fact that the necessary specialists will be posted. That is exactly what our proposal is when it is necessary for this to happen through the law. In the texts that we are looking at right now, such an opportunity has not been created and what you have said supports our proposal..... thank you very much for that. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Second line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Shopov, I take the liberty of giving you a line because in your speech you started at the beginning that you almost opposed the proposal which my colleagues present, including me. Then you turned him around and said it would be good to have a public council with some specialists, if they even had to command themselves. What are you against? Are you opposed to consensus?! You said: "The project is good, you have reached a consensus. " - Why are you now making any disagreements with the proposals, then supporting them? Determine how you will vote on our proposal, or do you not support it first?! The second disagreement with your statement is that almost before we passed this law, everything was tragic in dealing with people with disabilities, adopting this law, starting tomorrow everything starts in honey and butter. That is not the case at all. It still takes a great deal of effort. I really enjoy the consensus that has been obtained in the adoption of the Law. I am glad that the people who directly refer to the Bill in this case, who will become a law, like it and cross my fingers, this law to go to work very well, which I highly doubt, at least at the beginning. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u39	It'll go well at first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Third line please, you have the floor, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our position is as follows: what the opposition wants is reasonable and normal, but it cannot be done today for the following reasons that we have commented on in a purely professional nature. Once the labour-expert medical committee, which is composed of three doctors with different clinical specialties, has decided what rates to determine as the disability of the patient concerned, there is no way for this broad expert committee to be taken to participate in additional specialists, because we have commented here that colleagues of the two types of very rare specialities of occupational medicine or professional diseases should participate. I do not know at the moment whether there are 30 people in Bulgaria who are mainly in university hospitals and teach students this specialty. In working medicine, colleagues are mainly employed in the private sector, which have such companies in occupational medicine. So we, if we take this decision, which is what I say, reasonably and normally, what the opposition wants, perhaps in some perspective from now on, when we train such staff, it is good to have such colleagues from these specialities, but today we cannot. We will oblige these committees to find such colleagues, and they have nowhere to find them. This is the big problem, that is, we have a purely physical shortage of such footage at the moment, and therefore these committees cannot be completed with such doctors from the two clinical specialties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u43	To Dr. Popovski, I will answer only one thing: my firm opinion and position have always been that in the 21st century a modern European state cannot refer to the lack of personnel in one area or another, not only in this area, but in any other. Otherwise, one such country, which refers to the lack of footage and has no footage in general, passes to another sphere and to another category of countries. The footage will always be found, they must be trained, if necessary, to solve any problem from any sphere. As for my opponents and colleagues from BSP [[Replications by National Representative Nadia Klisurska]] , opponents in a purely opposition sense, otherwise as ideas very often we are of the same opinion with you...................... that I have not started my speech in some negative direction... I just wanted to remind you that, for 13 years, since Ataka is on the political stage, for us from Ataka, the main priority is to see all of our programs, election programs, see the bills we have tabled, see what we have maintained in the plenary, we have always been strictly and irrevocably consistent and focused on protecting the social rights of Bulgarian citizens. This is our credo and that is why I started my speech in this way. As you can see, we are absolutely consistent now. I will say to my colleagues from the majority, and to GERB and to the United Patriarchs. I will say: "Come on, let's end up discussing this bill not to become cheap on flour and expensive on bran. " This is currently the dilemma we are facing and to conclude the consideration of the Bill with consensus. That's why I've pleaded many times in plenary. There are topics, there are questions.. last week I again pleaded for this in this Chamber with consensus all.............................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 36, against 29, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for art. 22. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u45	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The individual assessment of the needs shall be drawn up at the current address of the person with disability by a specialized department in the. (2) Individual needs assessment shall be drawn up at the request of: 1. the person with a disability or an authorised person; 2. the parent (the adoptor), guardian or guardian of a disabled person; 3. a member of the family with whom a child with disabilities is accommodated according to the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act; 4. the head of a specialized institution or social service of a resident type in which a disabled child is accommodated; 5. the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate at the Agency for Social Assistance in Self-Searching. (3) For the preparation of the assessment under para. 1 shall be submitted: 1. an application form declaration approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance; 2. a self-assessment form for the person with disabilities for domestic and non-domestic difficulties, as established by the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance; 3. medical documents or expert decision of the Territorial Expert Medical Commission (TELK) or National Expert Medical Commission (NELK). (4) The documents under para. 3 shall be submitted to the Social Assistance Directorate at the current address of the disabled person. The documents may be submitted in person by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a licensed postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No would be the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) No 912/2014', and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. The documents can also be accepted in the home of the disabled person with a medical need. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 24, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u46	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As you can see, in the texts of art. 21, where we are talking about the individual assessment of needs and specialized compositions, is the place for our proposal, as you recall, I did it in the Chamber, to make an amendment to this article. In this regard, I propose that we vote on the proposal under art. 21, para. 1 to be supplemented by the following: The assessment of the needs shall be carried out at the current address of the person with disability by a specialized department of the Social Assistance Officers at the Agency for Social Assistance, including other specialists, where appropriate, with a view to the specific nature of the case. That's how it's gonna be edited. Art. 1, art. 21. Please, let's put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Mrs. Klisurska. They voted 99 MPs: 29, against 31, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall now put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to art. 23 by importer, which becomes art. 21. Vote 94 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text in art. 24 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u49	Under art. 25 has a proposal of the MPs Mihail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2, p. 2, Finally, after the word "the works', a comma shall be placed and the time limits for repair and replacement of new ones shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 22: Art. 22. (1) Individual needs assessment shall be based on information on: 1. the self-assessment of the person with disability for and outside of home difficulties; 2. damage/health; 3. the type of difficulties in the functioning of the disabled person; 4. the degree of difficulties in the functioning of the disabled person; 5. the degree of inclusion in the social environment of the disabled person; 6. the mobility of the person with disabilities in his social environment and difficulties outside the home; 7. other circumstances. (2) For the preparation of the individual assessment, the Agency for Social Assistance through its bodies shall be entitled to free access to data processed and administered by other public authorities or bodies as required by the requirements for the protection of personal data. (3) The individual assessment of the needs, including the assessment of the need to provide social services, personal assistance or other support under conditions and in accordance with law, shall be drawn up according to the Methodology for carrying out an individual assessment of the needs of support for disabled persons adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. (4) The individual assessment of the needs shall be drawn up by the end of the month following the month of submission of the documents under art. 21, para. 3 in accordance with the rules on the application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u50	Statements? You have the floor to speak, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! There must have been some misunderstanding, since the proposal has been withdrawn by the Commission. The time limits for the assistance of people with disabilities are currently positive, students and workers use a real 50% lower period for the operation of the aids, as well as for repair, so it overlaps with my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u52	Are you withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u53	Yes, I'm withdrawing it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 25 by importer, which becomes art. 22 and due to the withdrawal of the proposal of the MPs Mihail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The individual needs assessment shall include three components: 1. information about the person with disabilities; 2. findings on the available functional deficits of the disabled person on the basis of the collected information under art. 22, para. 1; 3. conclusions relating to specific support measures. (2) The conclusions in the individual assessment of the needs shall be based on the self-assessment of the person with disabilities for domestic and non-domestic difficulties and the circumstances found for the available functional difficulties and barriers in the implementation of the daily and other activities according to the documents provided under art. 21, para. 3. (3) The conclusions shall define the types of support under this Chapter and the need to provide social services, personal assistance or other support under conditions and by order laid down by law. The Commission proposes to create new art. 24, 25, 26 and 27: Art. 24. (1) People with disabilities shall be entitled to financial support according to the individual assessment of their needs under art. 20 to provide assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices. (2) People with permanent disabilities according to the individual assessment of their needs under art. 20 shall be entitled to: 1. financial support for the purchase of a personal motor vehicle; 2. financial support for adaptation of housing; 3. financial support for balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services; 4. financial support rent of municipal housing; 5. Monthly financial support. (3) People with disabilities shall have the right to use social services, personal assistance or other support according to the needs defined in their individual assessment under art. 20, under conditions and by order laid down by law. Art. 25. (1) On the basis of the conclusions in the individual assessment of needs, the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate shall issue an order for: 1. granting of monthly financial support under art. 69, p. 1 and/or 2. the granting of assigned aid under art. 69, p. 2. (2) On the basis of the conclusions in the individual assessment of the needs, the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate shall issue directions for the provision of personal assistance with a certain number of hours, social services or other types of support under conditions and by order laid down by law. (3) The orders under para. 1 and the directions under para. 2 shall be notified in writing to the applicant person in A 7-day period of issue together with the individual needs assessment. (4) The orders under para. 1 and the directions under para. 2 are motivated. (5) The orders under para. 1 and the directions under para. 2 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The claims of the persons for financial support shall be paid out within three months of the end of the month to which they relate. Art. 26. (1) The conclusions and directions defined in the assessment under art. 20 are mandatory for all bodies and organizations responsible for the realization of the rights of people with disabilities. (2) Individual needs assessment shall be issued for the period specified in the expert decision to determine the percentage of permanently reduced performance or type and extent of disability. (3) Persons with a certain type and degree of disability 50 and over 50 per cent established after the age of acquisition of a pension for internship and age under art. 68 of the Code of Social Security, as well as persons with reduced working capacity who are over the age of acquiring the right to a pension for social service and age under art. 68 of the Code of Social Security within the term of the decision of TELK (NELK), enjoy the rights of the law for life regardless of the period laid down in the expert decision. (4) The individual assessment of the needs issued on the basis of a life-saving expert decision, as well as in the cases under para. 3 is 5 years from the date of its issue. (5) A new individual needs assessment may be drawn up before the expiry of the evaluation in: 1. issue of a new expert decision by TelK (NELK) before the expiry of the existing expert decision; 2. change in the needs of the disabled person and the requested desire under art. 21, para. 2. Art. 27. (1) In the event of a written signal or at the discretion of the Director of the respective Directorate of Social Assistance, a check shall be carried out by an official of the Directorate for financial support and/or targeted assistance. (2) For the results of the inspection, the official under para. 1 draw up a constitutional protocol which provides within three days the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate. (3) In the event of established mishap in receiving monthly financial support and/or targeted aid and/or unused targeted aid, the Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance shall issue a reasoned order for recovery of the monthly financial support received and/or targeted aid together with the legal interest. (4) The persons who did not use the intended target aid shall be deprived of such aid until the amounts due have been recovered. (5) The order under para. 3 shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its receipt. The appeal shall be suspended and no prior execution shall be permitted. (6) The enforcement of the order under para. 3 shall be allowed at the request of the Directorate of Social Assistance under the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u56	Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My speech will be under art. 23 which, according to the previous texts, was art. 26. Unfortunately for me, during the work of the working group at second reading, a request was made to specify the term "governments" because, as you can see, currently in para. 3 It becomes clear what the conclusions define and what the types of support are, but for the directions no such particularity has been made. Such a specific is not laid down in the additional provisions of §1. In this regard, reading the text of art. 23 and all his logic, as it is, I propose in para. 3 Where we comment on the conclusions, let's introduce the text of the Governments, because the directions are hanging. Under the current legislation and under the current Law on Social Assistance, the directions are related when issued by the Departments for Child Protection to the Directorates for Social Assistance for Housing in Residential Services when it comes to court. All adult services are subject to an order and direction from the Social Assistance Directorates. But notice! In the new Social Services Act, the concept, which was discussed, of the texts of the Social Services Act, is already a fact. It's about targeting social services. However, in the text of the Law on Disabled People, the way we are introducing it at the moment, and speaking of conclusions and references in para. 2 and para. 3 for the conclusions, it is not clear what happens to the directions. In this regard, in order not to be unclear about the directions, since it is about the use of social services, I suggest that we introduce the "governments" because it remains incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska. They voted 98 MPs: 26, against 27, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 26 by importer, which becomes art. 23, and the Commission proposal to establish new members from 24 to 27 including, with a text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u59	Under art. 27 there is a proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 after the word...... and the attraction of the necessary external specialists................................................................................................ is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 27, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 22, para. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 28, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 22, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u60	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 30, against 16, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the Commission's proposal to reject the text of art. 27 by importer and the second proposal of the Commission to reject the text of art. 28 by importer. 110 MPs voted: 109 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I voted on the last texts only to have the right to say that at the end of this chapter we are looking at, I wish I could dream of being a person associated with people... [[The National Representative Nadia Klisurska spoke with an expert of the leading committee.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u63	Mrs. Klisurska, I apologize, but I must make a remark to you unofficially. Please sit down! Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u64	I had to dream at the end of this chapter. May one day the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria adopt a chapter in a law in which there will be an individual assessment of the possibilities of people with disabilities and not of their deficits! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u65	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Please continue, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u66	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of importers for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29, which becomes art. 28. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 29: Art. 29. (1) People with disabilities shall have the right to rehabilitation which is complex and may be: 1. medical; 2. professional; 3. social; 4. labor; 5. Psychologically. (2) Medical rehabilitation shall be a medical activity carried out by multidisciplinary teams under the terms and conditions of the Law on Medical Institutions and of the Health Insurance Act and shall include: 1. identification of the damage; 2. medical and functional diagnostics; 3. Physical therapy; 4. speech and visual therapy; 5. kinesitherapy; 6. hydrotherapy; 7. ergotherapy; 8. psychotherapy; 9. supportive medical therapy; 10. The appointment of aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities. (3) Medical rehabilitation shall be aimed at: 1. achieving maximum functional fitness and successful re-socialization; 2. support the medical and biological recovery and prevention of complications; 3. maintaining the functional state and limiting the pathological consequences; 4. compensation in various ways and by various means of the loss of functional fitness of damaged organs and systems. (4) Professional rehabilitation is a process that enables people with disabilities to overcome the barriers of access and return to work to a particular profession. (5) Professional rehabilitation shall aim at developing the knowledge and skills of disabled people for work, preparation for work and provision of work corresponding to their health, education and qualification. (6) The following activities shall be carried out in the process of professional rehabilitation: 1. assessment of the professional suitability of people with disabilities; 2. professional consultations based on a comprehensive assessment of professional suitability; 3. vocational training; 4. provision of support and labour assistance services; 5. providing appropriate support for overcoming the barriers to functional restrictions for the pursuit of an employed profession, adapted workplace and working conditions according to the needs of the disabled person and others. (7) Social rehabilitation is the creation of skills to lead an independent life in society through rehabilitation of sight, hearing and speech, motor rehabilitation, psychological assistance, psycho-social counseling, employment and professional activity, provision of social and rehabilitation services and other activities. (8) Activities carried out in the field of social rehabilitation are related to: 1. building skills and abilities to cope with the implementation of activities in life; 2. building a supportive environment for man to lead an independent life; 3. the creation of conditions for social contacts, creativity and creative performances, recreation activities, information and others. (9) Labour rehabilitation shall promote the right to employment of disabled persons by: 1. labor therapy; 2. social inclusion through work; 3. provision of employment services in a specialized, protected or ordinary working environment; 4. training in a specialized, secure or ordinary working environment; 5. ensuring an appropriate form of employment in a specialized, protected or ordinary working environment; 6. adaptation of the employment environment to ensure employment of people with disabilities. (10) Psychological rehabilitation is aimed at restoring and maintaining mental balance and activity opportunities. (11) Participation in the different types of rehabilitation under para. 1 may also take the families of disabled people in accordance with identified needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u67	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Four, supported by the Commission; secondly, the text of the importer on the name of Section I, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer on art. 29, which becomes art. 28 shall be supported by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of the importer of art. 30, which becomes art. 29. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. All proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u68	The Commission shall support the text of importers on the name of Section II. Under art. 31 there is a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva, Venka Stoyanova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Children and students with disabilities, including children and students with special educational needs, shall be provided with support for personal development in the system of pre-school and school education. (2) The support shall be general and additional and shall be applied in accordance with the individual assessment of each child and of each student with disabilities drawn up under the terms and conditions of the Pre-school and School Education Act and the State Education Standards. Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 31: Art. 31. (1) Support for personal development shall be provided and provided to children and students under art. 30, para. 1 together with the state and local authorities and their structures and social service providers. (2) The institutions in the pre-school and school education system shall provide conditions for equal access to quality education and inclusion of children and students by providing additional support under art. 187, para. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act. (3) The institutions under para. 2 provide additional support for personal development of children and students with disabilities through a support plan drawn up in accordance with art. 187, para. 3 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The plan shall be based on an assessment of the individual needs of each child or student, which shall be carried out by a support team for personal development in the kindergarten or in the school. (4) The institutions in the system of pre-school and school education shall provide access and presence to assistants of children or students with disabilities when in the plan for support under para. 3 is indicated that the child or student needs the support of an assistant. Under art. 33 has a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 33 which becomes Art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The regional centres for support of the inclusive education process shall carry out organizational and methodological support to kindergartens and schools with regard to providing additional support for personal development under art. 31, para. 2 to children and students with disabilities, as well as providing resource support for children and students with special educational needs in the cases provided for in the Preschool and School Education Act. (2) Regional support centres for the process of inclusive education shall establish regional support teams for the personal development of children and students under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u69	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. Before we vote, fellow Members of Parliament are students and their lecturers from the National Military University. Please welcome them! [[People's representatives rise up and applaud the guests.]] Thank you! I will now put to the vote the following texts: the first text is the text of the importer for the name of Section II, the second is the version of the Commission for art. 31 by importer, which becomes art. 30, the third is the version of the Commission for Art. 30. 32 by importer, which becomes art. 31, and the fourth is the version of the Commission for Art. 31. 33 by importer, which becomes art. 32. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u70	Under art. 34 there is a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 34 to be rejected. Under art. 35 there is a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 33: Art. 33. Higher schools provide: 1. supporting environment, special facilities, necessary training materials and additional teaching aid, supporting the process of training and evaluation of disabled persons; 2. preparation of specialists for working with people with disabilities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u71	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I will put three texts to the vote: the first is the Commission's proposal to remove the text of the importer for art. 34, the second is the version of the Commission for art. 35, which becomes art. The third is the Commission's proposal in support of the text of the importer for art. 33 and the third is the Commission's proposal in support of the text of the importer. 36, which becomes art. 34. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u72	Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 36a: In Chapter 4, Section II is created. 36a: Art. 36a. In the relevant application of the provisions of this section, support for personal development, general and additional, for the development of abilities and skills is also provided to disabled persons who, due to the later illness or due to the care of a disabled person in the household, have suspended their training to acquire basic, secondary or higher education. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u73	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The proposal we have made in Section II of Chapter 4 is to create art. 36a for the introduction of the possibility that, when a disability occurs and when a disease occurs at a later stage and where a person who takes care of another disabled person accordingly, it has had to interrupt his training to acquire basic, secondary or higher education, to have such support under this section and this chapter. That's our offer. I am convinced at the moment that a very large part of you has happened and during the debates during the discussion of a second reading,.. will comment on the age of the people in whom this hypothesis arises, and the contradictions in the Law on preschool and school education, but we believe that there are cases where people interrupt their training because of the need to care for people with disabilities and in this regard we propose the introduction of this art. 36a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. [[Replication of MP Nadia Klisurska to MPs from GERB.]] You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, my reply is to you with a request in the back to give a little more explanation of how you see the application of provisions of the Preschool and School Education Act to people who are not in the education system. It is particularly important for me to hear your position, which I suppose will not be personal, but will be to the group of colleagues who have submitted this proposal, how do you see the implementation of additional support in the higher education system, where it is scheduled and how do you think it will be provided to the people who need it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Any other lines? I won't. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Mrs. Zaharieva, you're right. With regard to the Law on Higher Education, the text is not really accurate in the version of art. 36a, but by understanding the arguments that I have put them forward, in this case our proposal is related to this support rather for primary and secondary education. This is our proposal if you accept the editorial amendment, to make a higher education, I would be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska, on this proposal you propose an editorial amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u80	Yes, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u81	That's a very interesting case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u82	It should be read by writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u83	I will first put this proposal to a vote, I just have to think about it, and then I will put it to a vote and the editorial amendment. Any other speeches? Mrs. Damyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I have repeatedly called on, when proposals are made, to consult colleagues in the relevant parliamentary group, who are experts in the field, in this case, colleagues from the education system. We have made amendments in the previous articles of the law, which were already adopted by the Chamber and whose aim was to synchronize the Law on Disabilities with the Law on Pre-school and School Education, so that there is no gap. In this sense, since we are making references to the Preschool and School Education Act, I am in front of me. 174, para. 1 of the Pre-school and School Education Act, which reads: The institutions in the pre-school and school education system provide support for the personal development of children and students, together with the state and local authorities and bodies and social service providers. The previous article. 173 says which person is a student: It is a student who has enrolled in a training school for graduating class. You said you said you'd be okay. You are saying that from tomorrow, schools and kindergartens should offer general and additional support to all persons who care for loved ones who are disabled or who have stopped training at one stage of their lives for one reason or another for the care of loved ones or disabled persons themselves. There is no obstacle if someone has interrupted their training, enrolled in the appropriate form of training, and then will receive the appropriate form of support. You are speaking to each other, Mrs. Klisurska, but I am making you clear why we will actually abstain from your proposal. General support. Well, for the general support, I will read you the Preschool and School Education Act, teamwork between teachers and other pedagogical specialists, additional training in educational subjects under the terms of this law, additional modules for children who do not know the Bulgarian language, additional consultations on educational subjects that take place outside the regular classes, career guidance of students and so on. There is no obstacle when the persons in question sign up, for example in an evening form of training, because they have interrupted their training at one stage of their lives, to receive this support by law, and this is under the Preschool and School Education Act. They have this right, as well as, of course, disabled persons who have also interrupted because of illness. They can enlist there are several forms of training, and they will receive this support. But there is no way that when they do not have student status and are not enrolled in school, they will receive this support. Because of it, by the way, a little further down the line in the Law says it is provided after assessing the needs of a support team for personal development that is located in the school. Then we go to a regional team that confirms the assessment and so on. It's a whole chapter. In this sense, it is really good when we make proposals to examine the Preschool and School Education Act in its entirety. But what I want to say to you is that, in fact, these individuals, if they sign up in the relevant form of training, will be able to receive support and this already exists in the Law since 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs with the editorial amendment, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Nadia Klisurska. They voted 106 MPs: 23, against 44, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 35. Under art. 38 has a proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Kalin Popovski, Atanas Stoyanov, Yordan Apostolov and Georgi Kolev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, para. 3 words only when they certify the fulfilment of the obligations under art. The following points are inserted after point 40 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency shall implement the employment policy of people with permanent disabilities, together with other stakeholders, developing and proposing programmes and measures to promote employment, ensuring equal opportunities through socio-economic integration of people with permanent disabilities, under the Employment Promotion Act. (2) Under the programmes and measures under para. 1 funds are provided to stimulate employers who open jobs for the employment of people with permanent disabilities under the Law on Employment Promotion. (3) Employers may receive funds under programs and measures under para. 1 when they certify the fulfilment of the obligations under art. 38. (4) The employment and social security relations of unemployed persons with permanent disabilities by an employer who has received preferences in the implementation of programmes and measures to promote employment shall be governed under the terms of labour and social security legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u87	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Christian Mitev, Kalin Popovski, Atanas Stoyanov, Yordan Atanasov and Georgi Kolev. They voted 100 MPs: 19 against 11, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section III; art. 37, which becomes Art. Art. 35 and art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 36 in the version of the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 96, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u88	Under art. 39 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 39, para. 2, p. 5 words is fulfilling the requirements of art. The following points are inserted after point 40 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 37: Art. 37. (1) Persons with disabilities registered in the territorial divisions of the Employment Agency shall be entitled to mediate information and find work and professional guidance under the Employment Promotion Act. (2) The territorial units of the Employment Agency shall provide specialised labour brokerage to disabled persons seeking employment, which shall include: 1. evaluation of the professional skills of people with disabilities; 2. evaluation of the desires and opportunities for acquiring professional skills in view of the requirements of the labour market; 3. inclusion in a program/project for the acquisition of professional skills; 4. support through labor mentors in the process of training and starting work; 5. directing people with disabilities to potential employers in compliance with the requirements of art. 38 and mediation in the negotiations of people with permanent disabilities and employers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u89	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting against the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 20, Against 7, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text in the version of the Commission for art. 39, which becomes art. 37. They voted 105 MPs: 94, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u90	Under art. 40 has a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 6 is out. 2. Alinea 7 becomes al. 6, and in it the words............................................................................................... 3. Alinea 8 becomes al. 7, and in it the words........................................................................................ The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 38: Art. 38. (1) In order to ensure the employment of persons with permanent disabilities in a normal working environment, employers shall appoint workers and employees with permanent disabilities under a quota as follows: 1. employers with 50 to 99 employees - one person with permanent disabilities; 2. employers with 100 and over 100 workers and employees - two percent of their average staff. (2) Jobs determined according to the order of art. 315 of the Labour Code shall not be taken into account when taking into account the implementation of the quota under para. 1. (3) Employers shall be exempt from the obligation under para. 1 in: 1. the existence of specific factors in the working environment preventing the employment of people with permanent disabilities; 2. lack of persons with permanent disabilities, directed by the Office of Labour and by the labor mediators with a certificate issued for registration for carrying out an intermediary employment activity. (4) The Executive Agency of the Chief Labour Inspectorate shall certify the circumstances under para. 3. (5) Employers other than those under para. 3 which apply alternative measures for employment of people with permanent disabilities, as defined by the rules for the implementation of the law, shall be exempted from the obligation under para. 1. (6) In the event of failure to comply with the obligation under para. 1 and 5 the employer owes a monthly compensation contribution of 30 per cent of the minimum wage for each non-employment for a person with permanent disability.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u91	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u92	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I think that there is no person in this House who contests the claim that the realization of people with disabilities in the labour market is a key tool for their inclusion in all areas of public life. We can talk a lot about programmes and measures that are provided for in a number of employment laws for these people, only we have to admit that no matter how positive the programmes and measures are on the employment of disabled people, they are extremely insufficient and not sustainable in time. I welcome the presence of art. 40 which, by the way, is one of the key elements of this bill, which seeks to guarantee some employment for people with permanent disabilities, and not anywhere, and not by programmes and measures, but in a normal working environment. I support this legal provision because it creates better opportunities for people with disabilities to be included in the labour market and thus to provide employment benefits rather than social benefits, to have social contacts, to pay social security and taxes, although relieved, so that they can actually join socio-economic and integrate. I understand in general the people of the Patriotic Front who have proposed to drop art. 40 of the Bill in general, but these quotas for people with disabilities must exist because we are a social state, a solidarity society and there must be administrative measures if we cannot otherwise obtain this arrangement of work and integration of people with disabilities. I will remind you that the measures as such, or rather quotas, there are now in the legislation in art. 325, para. 1 of the Labour Code, Art. 27, para. 1 and 2 of the current Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and Ordinance of February 2012 on the definition of jobs suitable for the work of persons with reduced performance, but there are absolutely no sanctions. For the most part, these provisions of the Labour Code are expressed by employers to state these places at the employment desks and up to there without taking them. Now we have proposed in art. 40 to drop para. 6 which reads: "Workers, outside the cases under para. 4 who do not perform their duties under para. 1. i.e. to provide certain allowances.. are obliged to apply alternative measures................................................................................................... I believe with this para. 6 We disintegrate the operation of the entire art. 40 and we're just doing it willingly. I would agree with the stay of the subparagraph if, in the Additional Provisions, we had decreed, within the meaning of this Law, what is an alternative measure in the case of employment insurance. Since we have not decreed there for such alternativeness or measures, these alternative measures can be interpreted as they are... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] If in the Rules of Procedure, as I am told, it is definitely another matter, but I believe that there should not normally be an alternative to quotas, because an alternative to people with disabilities is required to make all employers. I support the proposal, al. Article 6 40 drop out, and I ask you to support him, because otherwise, I say to you, the whole point of art is lost. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the quotas for people with disabilities, along with the monthly financial support, are the core of this bill. You are well aware of that, and it is clear from your statement that you support this. Additional options have been given for alternative measures that will be listed and listed in the Rules of Application of this Law. Why should there be alternative measures? Because there are cases where it is not possible, firstly, because of the lack of people with disabilities from the employment desks; secondly, because of the nature and nature of the work being done, there is no way to employ people with disabilities and therefore an opportunity for alternative measures. The alternative measures, for example, are: enterprises, companies that cannot provide quotas for disabled people, to buy production produced by disabled people and other similar products that are present in European practice. This is the condition for circumventing other employment opportunities for disabled persons in order to be able, by implementing alternative measures, not to pay the compensation fee of 30% of the minimum wage. Therefore, these alternative measures have been given, and I am convinced that they are not who knows how difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u95	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Gyokov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Dr. Ademov, I really do support art. 40 in the Law and this is a major part of it. I agree with everything you've said. I know the alternative measures and not only this one, but for me, it was the right thing to say in § 1 of the Additional Provisions what these alternative measures were. Because now, as legislators, we are determining an alternative option, but we are giving it the opportunity to define another... the Council of Ministers or which approves the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on People with Disabilities. How do I know, and all the MPs, that this alternative that you say will be at stake right there, I will be satisfied or people with disabilities will be satisfied with it? That's why we took the liberty of making the proposal to drop para. 6. If the importer had taken into account the alternative to the Additional Provisions, we might not have to do this thing. I keep saying that the dropping of al. 6 is necessary at this time, because I cannot agree with any future rules, which is not the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria, but is the Council of Ministers to decide the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I call on you to support our proposal for the dropping of art. 40. First of all, because of the philosophy embedded in it. This philosophy is aimed at sanctioning those villains who have the privilege or misfortune in Bulgaria to be called entrepreneurs, to be called businessmen, to be called commercial functionaries or whatever you want. I cannot accept that again through the mechanism of sanctions, through the mechanism of imposing mandatory quotas, on the one hand, on the other hand, the imposition of financial sanctions, however insignificant they really are a third of the minimum wage, we must impose compliance with the law in this way to the business in Bulgaria. On the contrary, I think that the attitude of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the Members of the National Assembly to the business should be rather a partnership attitude, an attitude to providing assistance for normal working conditions, not repression, not sanctions, rather than coercion, as proposed by the left-hand side of the Chamber. I would be very interested to hear the opinion of your representative Petar Kanev on this point, which has the misfortune of being an employer. I would be very interested to hear, for example, someone else who has done business, has a company and provides, secures work, salaries of his employees to tell here what his opinion is in his capacity as both a people representative and an employer. But in this case we once again approach the Bulgarian business as a stepmother. I think the approach should be different. We discussed this approach with Minister Petkov. In any case, in the confusion, rushing and forcing the adoption of this law, no measures were sought and no measures were proposed to encourage the employer in the recruitment of disabled people. It could have been through tax cuts, or in some other way, that actually stimulated. I have this as an address to you because, in the context of implementing such forced measures, we do nothing but demonstrate once again as a political institution, as a National Assembly, on the one hand, a showable, hypocritical concern for people with disabilities, but achieve nothing. When I say that we do not achieve anything, I mean that we will force the issuance or removal of false TELM decisions or people with disabilities who are not. Employers will look for a way to cover this quota that we impose on them, which will still be a form of hypocrisy, hypocrisy and self-deception. No, we can't fool anyone. Therefore, we importers and I propose to drop this article as a whole. 40, at least for the fact that there's an insane need for labor right now. I cannot imagine that there will be somewhere in Bulgaria an employer who needs an appointed person with certain skills and will not appoint him just because he is disabled. That's not gonna happen! Currently, the Bulgarian economy is gasping from lack and shortage of labour. So once again, I urge you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u99	Thank you. The first line was stated by Mr. Gokov and then by Mr. Hristov. Okay, back up. Here you are, Mr. Mikhail Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u100	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Simeonov, it is very clear to me that politics is viewed rationally, not emotionally, but in your statement I did not see any of this. Do you realize this is about one man in a hundred? When you say that there are no privileges to employers, you are clearly not familiar with the rules and laws for people with disabilities, and what privileges do employers use for people with disabilities? We're talking really really really about one person. If this is such a big problem, as you know, they actually had to be two people per hundred, but it was changed to one person per hundred. I don't think we should be making a problem for one person. We want to integrate these people into a working environment, into society, don't we?! In the end, this is how the employers like it or not, we are the body that decides. Whether they like it or not, it's their decision, their right not to like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u101	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u102	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I'm sorry, but this is where we completely disagree with our views on this matter. It's not illogical. But you say bad employers. So, here in art. 40 writes: "Workers." And why do you take it from the point of view that it is only a matter of private employers? This is also about the state. We also oblige it to respect these quotas. This one first. Secondly, you are talking about incentives. I will tell you that in the current legislation there are extremely.. not much, but there are incentives. And this led to the fact that people with disabilities are not employed in any way, except with incentives, with preferences to employers, payment of insurance, payment of salaries for a certain period of time. Nothing else can cause an employer to hire a disabled person without such incentives. I will also tell you about the Programme "Employment and integration for people with disabilities" it is also called "Employment and training for people with disabilities" which is a very attractive program for employers because there are paid for two years of insurance and wages. So this isn't working. Now you've come to your topic again: the fake Telks, the very need for jobs. These are all things that may exist, but maybe they don't exist either. For the fake TELKs in two years I have not seen that we have taken any big step and have shown that there are so many fake TELKs in Bulgaria. The need for labour does not necessarily have employers looking for people with disabilities. They seek rather, as you offer, import labour from abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u103	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u104	Thank you. I have much to say to you on this subject, but keep in mind that you are very different from public opinion and from mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u105	Some other time and another procedure. Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u106	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, Mr. Hristov's two percent is at stake, not one percent. Two percent over 100, yes, and one person is up to 100. Because he repeated one percent several times, maybe he made some kind of mechanical error. Again, this is not about two percent, this is not about one person between 50 and 100. This is clear to you that it will not lead to any revolution in terms of employment among disabled people. It won't cause anything! That is an insult to the attitude I have emphasized! It is insulting to treat employers, including public companies. Mr. Gokov, imagine what a company owner should do, no matter what it is, for a 51-man transport, for example 15 drivers, 35 porters and one accountant, one. If, for example, the owner himself is a private, he will do the most part of the administrative activity that needs to be done. What's going on? Why would he have to look for someone to hire? Where's this guy gonna get it? From the Bureau of Labor. And the Bureau of Labour, a civil servant, will appreciate whether the one they send him will or will not do the job, whether this firm needs this particular profession or not. I'm sorry, it's just somehow devoid of all reason and logic. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that with the article adopted just now. 36, para. 3 We have already sanctioned the employer by banning him from participating in programmes relating to labour. We only talk about cases where the requirement of art. 40 at the moment. When he hasn't hired such people, once he is limited by access to programs, the second time he tolerates sanctions. Sorry, I don't think what we are doing right now is worthy of the Bulgarian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u107	Thank you. Personal explanation? Here you go, Mr. Kanev. You have been mentioned by name as a representative of the employers in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u108	Colleagues, I will tell you this very briefly: what we accept is not working. We've all fallen a few months into a full stupor, a full cast along the protests, and we're willing to do anything. In the Commission, we voted against it, but the truth is that it is a non-working system. Valeri Simeonov is absolutely right. I know that we will now support it and vote on it. We're just pinned down and put against the wall. The big and interesting question is what companies have to pay if they don't hire. It's not a killer lot of money. A normal firm can solve it. Where's that money going? What will they be used for? Are they going to the joint? What's going on with them? That's an interesting question. Again, I know we're going to vote on this, but we're going to accept another non-working proposal. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Two statements have been made so far. I'm taking 30 minutes off, and then we'll continue working on this text. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u110	Please let the Quaestors invite the Members of the National Assembly to the House.................................................................................................. 40. Mr. Shopov, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making this statement in order to dispel the impression created by the statement of some colleagues that it is almost possible that the United Patriarchs stand and are for dropping out of art. 40. Obviously, without being informed, although a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Policy, this is the opinion and position of NFSB, but not of the United Two of these are formed, including by representatives of the opposition, one together with NFSB, for the benefit of the employers or, to call it, presenting as the Bulgarian business, and the other position which is the nationally responsible, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which clearly states that Bulgaria is a social state, which very often we from Ataka are reminded in the Chamber, for which we have always pleaded and fought. Several are the things that employers' organizations aim at some time when we have more time and as opportunities to speak out of the stands, I will classify and name them for you. But one of the things that business representatives say: certain representatives, certain business organisations, is to drop the opportunity for people with disabilities to work, to be hired in a particular preferential order by companies and businesses to be obliged to employ them. Until now, this has existed in art. 30 of the Labour Code, but without the corresponding sanctions, that was not a working rule. Finally, art. 40 Turns this situation into a workable position for people with disabilities to actually be appointed. I guess it's why business doesn't want that to happen. Because for business, it's a certain inconvenience. I say: very small inconveniences, because for business it is resource separation, it is insignificant, it is a very modest resource. The business in Bulgaria is the one who has received the vast majority of the material assets, of the preferences, the tax system is so designed to broadcast it, but does not want to take on this so modest function, which is asked of it and which the society changes it, because these are insignificant means, which the business, which does not feel like is part of this complex public body, is trying not to assume this obligation that takes place in normal countries with a social market economy, which we should be and which we should strive for. And what's going to happen? Business will take on certain obligations that can also benefit him, because a disabled person can very often prove extremely useful. If a person has any physical disabilities, he can contribute to the enterprise with his own thought, with his own creativity, which is quite normal. From this point of view, business must take part in its commitment to society, and this is a path in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u112	Thank you. Are there any lines? There are no lines to the statement. I give the floor to Mrs. Klisurska for next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u113	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! With a great apology to the mothers of disabled children who really have to wait and listen sometimes to meaningless debates. I believe that this text of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, commenting on quotas for employers, is extremely important. Sorry to keep you waiting. I didn't get a line on Mr. Valeri Simeonov's statement, I do it in a statement and I want to tell him that in the way that I am now art. 38 introduces the employer's commitment, gives them sufficient alternative opportunities to fail to meet these allowances for our great regret. Unfortunately for us, what he put forward as arguments that there are economic activities that cannot meet this requirement under para. 1, no reason was introduced text in para. 3, which explicitly says that employers are exempt from the obligation under para. 1 in the case of specific factors in the working environment preventing the employment of people with permanent disabilities and in the absence of people with permanent disabilities directed by the Employment Bureau. But perhaps Mr. Simeonov didn't bother to read or understand the texts of para. 3, because he was talking about businesses related to economic transport-related activities. If we look deeper, we will see the provisions of art. 315 of the Labour Code, which regulates the equal obligation of employers by type of economic activity, and under para. 3 of art. 315 of the Labour Code, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Health set these quotas. Yes, but here we comment on quotas as something that, excuse me, is extremely bad for employers. To our great regret, to our parliamentary group, we have proposed to cancel para. 5 "the one that relates to alternative measures because we believe that the text introduced by alternative measures exempts employers from those quotas, because in the Additional Provisions of § 1, although in this text we regulate that alternative measures will be governed by regulations, it is not clear what these alternative measures are in this law. If we read speeches by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, a kind of alternative measure is, for example, those enterprises that cannot meet these needs, possibly purchase materials produced by people with disabilities. Yes, but there is ambiguity and incompleteness here, because by introducing with a possible future rule an alternative measure, we are just releasing employers and there is no alternative employment. So Mr. Simeonov may, in my opinion, be calm in his speech, but let him read the texts of art. Art. 38 before Art. 40 and see that para. 3 gives such opportunities, too, when economic activity does not allow them to be released under para. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Dr. Ademov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Very brief. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this text is extremely important. That is why it has been discussed for a long time and is proposed in a form that balances the interests of employers and people with disabilities, balances public relations that are extremely delicate. What's this about? The whole philosophy of the proposed legislation, of the three laws, of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, of the Law on Personal Aid, of the Law on Social Services, is that people with disabilities can overcome barriers: barriers to employment, barriers to education, barriers to qualification, barriers to health care. By overcoming these barriers, they will have the opportunity to earn income from work, not just to rely on funds from the social system. That is why employers are the ones who have to take advantage of this opportunity. In the National Employment Programme to assist employers in hiring disabled people, the resource is 5 million. Dear employers, make projects to enable you to adapt jobs, to enable disabled people to take their jobs so that you can ultimately be useful to them. I understand that society as a whole must overcome those prejudices that have been imposed over the years on people with disabilities. One of the degrees of intelligence of society is the attitude towards people with disabilities. That's why both employers and workers and employees and people with disabilities, society in general, everyone has to give something of their own to help these people's employment, because they are worthy, they want to have incomes from work so that they can get rid of the dependence on the social system. This is the overall philosophy of the three laws, and I hope that this philosophy will be supported by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u116	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u117	In fact, Mr. Ademov, it is most important that these people's socialization, their inclusion in the public body, their self-esteem, these people feel useful to society. It's also therapy for their problems. This is a way for these people to enter society with their potential, with all their capacity, which will also benefit society. This is the main task, and the resource that needs to be separated is insignificant. It is so small that hardly any businessman will feel the resources, the resources he will spend on such a job. It is about enterprises and a percentage that is quite balanced. And most importantly, I repeat, is the socialization of these people, their self-esteem and their entry into society as equal members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u118	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. A hole? You don't want to, Dr. Ademov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. First, I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and the dropout group of art. 40, not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 10, against 58, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 31, against 43, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u119	They voted 105 MPs: 94, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u120	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 39. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. The employer shall be obliged to adapt the workplace to the needs of the disabled person in employment, where necessary, depending on the type and extent of the damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u121	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reports of the proposals of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 39. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, in the version proposed by the Commission, for art. 42, which becomes art. 40. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for a text of art. 40 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u122	Under art. 43 there is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in art. 43, para. 5 words and alternative measures under art. 40, para. Six o'clock out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In paragraph 1, the words "for the implementation of the quota referred to in Article 1 (1) '. 40, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 2. Paragraph 2 is deleted. 3. In paragraph 3, the words "in accordance with the quota referred to in Article 3'. 40, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal 4. In paragraph 4, the words "in the performance of the quota obligations' under art. 40, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5. Paragraph 5 is deleted. 6. Alinei 3 and 4 are respectively renumbered as para. 2 and para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The employer shall inform the territorial divisions of the Employment Agency of the vacancies and of the necessary workers and employees, their qualifications and professional skills, for the implementation of the quota under art. 38, para. 1. (2) Within three months of notification under para. 1 The employer is obliged to appoint people with permanent disabilities who meet the requirements of employment. (3) The employer shall inform the respective territorial unit of the Employment Agency that he has appointed a person/person with permanent disabilities according to the quota under art. 38, para. 1. (4) Employers shall have the right to use mediation for employment under the Law on Employment Promotion in the performance of quota obligations under para 38. 1. (5) The arrangements for the implementation of the quota obligations for employers and alternative measures under art. 38, para. 5, including the order referred to in art. 38, para. 6 shall be determined by the rules on the application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u123	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 51, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 19 against 15, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text for art. 43 by importer, which becomes art. 41, in the version proposed by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u124	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 42: Art. 42. An employer who has established a production unit or sector in which 5 or more disabled persons work may enjoy the rights under art. Art. 49, Art. 50, para. 1 for these production structures and for disabled people. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 43: Art. 43. (1) Disabled persons seeking employment shall have the right to use free intermediary employment services provided by labour intermediaries with issued registration certificate for carrying out an intermediary employment activity under the requirements of the Employment Promotion Act and the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for carrying out an intermediate employment activity (prom., SG No. ...) (2) Mediation activities under para. 1 shall be expressed in assisting job seekers and job offerers in order to conclude a contract of employment. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities may finance an employer, respectively an appointing authority, under a national programme for the employment of persons with disabilities for: 1. providing access to the workplace for a person with permanent disability; 2. adaptation of the workplace for a person with permanent impairment; 3. equipment at the workplace for a person with permanent impairment; 4. qualification and requalification, appropriate training for professional and professional development; 5. other activities. (2) The employer, respectively, shall employ persons with permanent disabilities for a period of not less than three years after the provision of the financing under para. 1. (3) Employer, respectively appointing authority, who has not spent the funds under para. 1 by purpose or has not appointed people with permanent disabilities, recovers the amounts received with the legal interest. (4) The conditions and arrangements for financing under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 45: Art. 45. (1) Employer, respectively appointing authority, to whom funding under art. 44, provided that he does not benefit from preferences under the Employment Promotion Act, he uses funds from the state budget for 30 per cent of the contributions paid by the employer to the state social security, compulsory health insurance and additional compulsory pension insurance for disabled persons in order laid down by the rules on the application of the law. (2) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall exercise control over the spending of the funds under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u125	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported texts: text for art. 44 of an importer which becomes Art. 42, in the version proposed by the Commission; an importer text for art. 45, which becomes art. 43 in the version proposed by the Commission; art. 47, which becomes Art. 45 by importer, as proposed by the Commission, and art. 46, which becomes art. 44 by importer, in the version proposed by the Commission. These four texts reported by the rapporteur are voting simultaneously, enblock. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u126	Under art. 48 there is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 48 after the word "damages', a comma is placed in its second use and a parent or a member of their household who is not busy providing personal assistance is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, which becomes art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u127	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The proposal we make under art. 48 and with the editing of the working group he will become art. 46, we are making a proposal that we want to add to the possibility that a parent or a member of the household may also benefit from measures to develop an independent business. Why are we making this offer? At the moment, with this whole new bill, we are trying to better settle public relations and policies for people with disabilities. Previously the current Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, including the Law on the Promotion of Employment, introduced an opportunity by which people with disabilities who have an entrepreneurial spirit who want to develop an independent business activity can benefit through both laws from this measure of independent business. In order to improve the legislation, this whole new law, which we are introducing at the moment and respectively art. 48, as proposed by the working group, we believe that in order to improve it, it is good to think about cases where persons with disabilities who are elderly, who are ultimately required to care for their parent or their family member to take this additional care of a family member, too, to have the opportunity of this business initiative. I do not think that this will in any way hinder, but, on the contrary, improve measures to promote employment, because I am convinced that people who take advantage of the household, of the opportunity to develop their own business, will in some way cover in the best way these individual needs of their family members, who will somehow be brought into employment. In this regard, I call on you to support our proposal. I believe that it is adequate and will largely respond to the needs of disabled people and the associated possibility of developing an independent business.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Mr. Gokov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In general, Article 3 (1) (a) (ii) is replaced by the following: 48 is a very good hit on the Human Disabilities Bill. By means of its provisions, we enable programmes and projects to be validated for the start of an independent business by people with disabilities. I think it's very positive, and it could ease the lives of these people. So with both hands, I support it, and, as I can see, the Commission has supported it. However, as a proposal, we would like to add something else that the relatives and relatives of the people who live in the same household of disabled people should be included in the possibility of having an independent business activity under special programmes and projects re-established by the Director of the Agency for Disabled People. What does that require, and what are our motives? When in one family, in one household there is a disabled person, it affects the whole household, the whole family, and they have to devote much more resources than all the other families for the treatment and for the support of this person. Very often people in this family are also engaged in activities to help this person. I mean, helping the person who is his personal assistant, taking care of this person, and if we give them the opportunity in any way to help them start their own business, it would be good for the whole family, and it would be good for this family to live a little better. I looked somewhere at statistics, unfortunately I cannot tell you from whom statistics are provided that in Bulgaria entrepreneurship, self-business is at one of the lowest levels in Europe, that is, very few people want to do business on their own, and this is one of the ways in which employment can be increased and people can drop out of the social system. This is in the general spirit of promoting this entrepreneurship of independent business. I think our offer is in that spirit as well. There is one problem, it is not a problem actually, the Executive Director of the Agency for Disabled People will validate programmes and projects. Under the Law, this Agency for Disabled Persons will be from 2020, until then there will be no such programmes for disabled people, not that it is a problem, there has never been such an opportunity at all, except for the provisions of the Employment Promotion Act. So it's hardly that big a problem, but otherwise I think it's a good idea. If you are concerned that a lot of funds will be spent in this direction, it is not because it can regulate the amount to be used for these preferences, for these programmes and measures to promote self-business through the Rules of Law implementation and there to limit the activities that can be carried out by these people. Nothing wrong with supporting the proposal, there was a saying.. It is not important to feed someone with fish, but to teach them how to fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u131	Thank you. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We are going to vote on the text of art. The proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 22, against 4, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer in an version proposed by the Commission and supported by the Commission for art. 48, which becomes art. 46. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u132	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 48: Art. 48. (1) Specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons are those that meet the following conditions: 1. they are registered under the Commercial Law or under the Cooperative Law; 2. produce goods or perform services; 3. have a relative share of people with permanent disabilities as follows: (a) for specialised enterprises and cooperatives for blind and weak-seeing persons, not less than 20 per cent of the staff; (b) for specialised enterprises and cooperatives of persons with hearing impairments, not less than 30 per cent of the total number of staff; (c) for specialised enterprises and cooperatives of persons with other disabilities, not less than 30 per cent of the total number of staff; (d) for specialized enterprises and cooperatives of persons with intellectual difficulties or mental disorders, not less than 20 per cent of the staff; 4. are entered in the register under art. 83. (2) The persons working on employment in the specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons and labour facilities shall assist those with permanent disabilities in their work process and shall be supporting staff. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50, which becomes art. 49: Art. 49. The Agency for Persons with Disabilities may finance specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons under targeted projects and programmes under conditions and in accordance with the rules on the application of the law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 47: Art. 47. (1) State and local authorities shall assist and promote the employment of disabled persons by creating conditions for the operation of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons and working facilities through appropriate economic incentives, financial reliefs under current legislation and other supportive measures. (2) The measures under para. 1 include providing opportunities for the implementation of local initiatives in support of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled people and labour-treatment facilities in order to increase their productivity and competitiveness, measures to increase the employability of disabled people in a specialised working environment and improve their professional training and employment, measures to address the financial and economic constraints of enterprises and cooperatives. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52, which becomes art. 50: Art. 50. (1) Specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons and labour facilities shall be reimbursed 50 percent of the social security contributions due, compulsory health insurance and additional compulsory pension insurance for employees. (2) The funds under para. 1 are used for investment, rehabilitation and social integration of people with permanent disabilities and supporting staff. (3) The control of the use of the recovered funds shall be carried out by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister for Specialized Enterprises and Cooperatives of Persons with Disabilities and Labour and Social Policy Bases. (4) Specialized enterprises and cooperatives of people with disabilities and labour and medical facilities enjoy tax preferences under the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. (5) Those with permanent arrangements that receive income from work shall enjoy tax benefits under conditions and in order laid down in the Law on personal income taxes. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 51: Art. 51. In order to ensure employment for people with multiple permanent disabilities, centres for protected employment can be established. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 52: Art. 52. (1) The protected employment centers shall be a mechanism to support the labour integration of people with multiple permanent disabilities in order to provide conditions for the performance of productive activities, paid work and the provision of personal support services. (2) The protected employment centers shall: 1. identify the possibility of labor realization of people with multiple permanent disabilities; 2. build an adapted environment for the realization of the employment opportunities under point 2. 1; 3. form working habits for work in a normal or specialized working environment; 4. brokerage between people with multiple permanent disabilities and employers. (3) The centers of protected employment may be set up for specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled people and the labour and medical facilities in order laid down by the rules for the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u133	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the texts supported by the Commission of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 49, which becomes art. Article 48, for art. 50, which becomes art. Article 49, for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. Article 47, for art. 52, which becomes art. Art. 50 and for Art. Art. 53, which becomes art. Article 51 as well as Article 51 Art. 54, which becomes art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u134	Mr. Chairman, can I have just one editorial note? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 by importer, which becomes art. 50, para. 3 there is a technical error to be made, to read.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u135	It's a technical mistake. Please, vote mode to correct the technical error reported by Dr. Ademov. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u136	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 53. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 54: Art. 54. Owners of the elements of the accessible environment in the urbanized territory, buildings and facilities for public service under art. 53, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 in order to provide information on the built accessibility of buildings, namely, with all the accessibility requirements met, undertake to put the international accessibility symbol in a prominent position at the entrance of the building and to announce the accessible architectural environment on their e-page, if any. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57, which becomes art. 55: Art. 55. Owners of elements of the accessible environment, buildings and facilities under art. 53, para. 2, p. 1 and 2, owned by natural and legal persons, plan measures, funds and deadlines for their alignment in accordance with the regulation under art. 53, para. 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 56: Art. 56. (1) Natural and legal persons, owners of elements of the accessible environment, buildings and facilities may be financed for activities for building an accessible environment for disabled persons under a national programme for affordable housing and personal mobility. (2) The terms and procedure for financing under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59, which becomes art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The design and construction of the elements of the accessible environment in the urbanized territory and the accessible environment of the buildings and facilities shall be carried out in compliance with the ordinance under art. 53, para. 3 under conditions and in order laid down in the Law on Construction of the Area. (2) For existing elements of the accessible environment in the urbanized territory and the accessible environment of existing buildings and facilities where the accessibility requirements of the ordinance under art may not be fully met. 53, para. 3 to individual construction elements or this burdens unnecessary and disproportionate surroundings, accessibility shall be ensured by the application of technical and/or organisational measures and/or by means of support and assistance for certain groups of disabled persons where necessary. The application of this option shall be determined and demonstrated in a reasoned investment project drawn up under the Law on Construction in the Area, or in the report on the results of the audit in the course of carrying out an audit under the ordinance under art. 176a, para. 6 of the Law on Construction in the Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u137	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of Section IV, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer as art. 55, which becomes art. 53, supported by the Commission; the proposal of the importer to art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 54 in the version proposed by the Commission; the proposal of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 55 in the version of the Commission; the proposal of the importer for art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 56, in the version of the Commission, and the proposal of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 57 in the version proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u138	Proposal of Mikhail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev for the creation of a new art. 59a: Art. 59a (1) The authorities of the executive power and of the local self-government shall also be obliged to provide by electronic means all services concerning persons with disabilities, except those whose nature excludes that. (2) The bodies referred to in para. 1 provide access on their website to an electronic copy of all documents necessary for the service concerned, as well as the possibility of filling them in printed letters. (3) The Council of Ministers shall provide targeted funding to advance the creation and deployment of resources of e-Management in the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u139	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal of the MPs Mihail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev to create art. 59a. Vote 95 MPs: 16 against 31, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u140	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60, which becomes art. 58: Art. 58. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall establish conditions for access of disabled persons to transport, information and communication services by developing regulations for: 1. provision of accessible transport for public use; 2. the implementation of technical equipment for the adaptation of vehicles managed by disabled persons in order to compensate their deficits and develop public transport standards to facilitate the movement of disabled persons; 3. providing special conditions for the movement, suspension, parking and stay of road vehicles operated by disabled or disabled persons; 4. providing unobstructed access to public transportation of disabled people, accompanied by dogs - blind drivers, or by dogs - assistants to disabled people. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 59: Art. 59. The Ministry of Youth and Sports in cooperation with municipalities and sports organisations shall create conditions for social inclusion of disabled persons by: 1. promoting the benefits of physical activity and practicing sports by people with disabilities; 2. providing opportunities for adapted physical activity, sport practice and participation in sports events and competitions of disabled people, including children and students; 3. support the preparation and participation of athletes with disabilities in sports competitions; 4. support for youth activities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62, which becomes Art. 60: Art. 60. The Ministry of Culture in cooperation with municipalities shall provide conditions for the integration of disabled people by: 1. provision of specialised information on the use of services, routes, architectural transport and other reliefs in places for public use intended for recreation and culture; 2. support for development of talent and promotion of creative performances of people with disabilities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 62. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 63: Art. 63. The local authorities shall ensure, within the limits of their competence: 1. the construction and maintenance of the elements of the accessible environment in the urbanized territory and the accessible environment in the buildings and facilities under art. 53, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 Municipal property and annually develop programmes approved by the relevant municipal councils with the necessary measures, funds and deadlines for implementation; 2. accessible public transport of passengers by adapting existing mass vehicles and putting into service technically adapted for use by disabled persons means of transport; 3. access of disabled people, accompanied by dogs, drivers of the blind, or by dogs, assistants of disabled people, to places of public use; 4. Special transport services for people with disabilities; 5. the necessary material conditions and means for social contacts of people with disabilities; 6. conditions for support for extracurricular children's and youth activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u141	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any statements on the reported texts? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 58, in the version proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 59, as amended by the Commission; proposal for art. 62, which becomes Art. 60, supported also in the version of the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 61, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 62, supported by the Commission; the text of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 63, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u142	Proposals by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. Art. 65a: Establishment of Art. 65a. 65a: Art. 65a. (1) For all administrative services in the country, with the exception of those whose nature does not permit it, the possibility of being used electronically by a disabled person should be ensured. (2) The Council of Ministers shall provide targeted funding to advance the creation and deployment of resources of e-Management in the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u143	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission, to create art. 65a. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 33, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u144	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of importers on the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 66. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69, which becomes art. 67: Art. 67. (1) The judicial authorities, as well as all state institutions, shall ensure that people with disabilities have effective access to justice equally with all others, including through the provision of procedural and age-appropriate support measures in view of their role in all phases of the process. (2) The programs of the National Institute of Justice and the Academy of the Ministry of Interior include training programs for working with people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u145	Are there any statements on the reported texts? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for a text of art. 66, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 64; the name of Section V supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 65, supported by the Commission; the text of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 66, supported by the Commission; the text supported by the Commission of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 67, as amended by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u146	The Commission shall support the text of importers for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70, which becomes art. 68: Art. 68. (1) People with disabilities shall be entitled to financial support depending on their needs as defined in the individual assessment under art. 20. (2) The support under para. 1 is intended to compensate for the costs associated with overcoming the difficulties caused by the type and extent of damage. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 69. Under art. 72 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. 1 the figure "size' is replaced by "size' after the word "size'; 2. in t. 3 Finally, after the word "poorness" a comma shall be placed and added if the person is with a certain foreign assistance... 57 per cent of the line of poverty....................................................................................................... 3. t. 4 and 5 are out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72, which becomes Art. 70: Art. 70. Right to monthly financial support under art. 69, p. 1 have people with permanent disabilities over 18 years of age as follows: 1. from 50 to 70.99 per cent of the disability rate of 7 per cent of the poverty line; 2. from 71 to 90 per cent of the disability rate of 15 per cent of the poverty line; 3. more than 90 per cent of the disability rate of 25 per cent of the poverty line; 4. more than 90 per cent of the disability with certain foreign aid, which receive an invalidity pension due to a general illness or because of an accident or occupational disease, in the amount of 30 per cent of the poverty line; 5. more than 90 per cent of disability with certain foreign aid, which receive a social disability pension of 57 per cent of the poverty line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u147	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor to speak. Please be very quiet in this room. You're making it difficult for me. Mr. Vangelov, Mr. Petrov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Several are the main positive points in the bill for people with disabilities. As mentioned, one of these positive changes is the new financial support provided for in this Section VI. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 are governed the rights of the people and those who have the right to enjoy it. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 from 50 to 70.99 per cent of damage was determined to be 7%. We said it was positive, but we don't think it's enough, especially in point. 1 and in this hypothesis from 50 to 70.99% of disability. This financial support replaces the so-called "integration supplements" which so far were based on the guaranteed minimum income, and I would like to say that in the initial project this financial support was 10%. I'm saying this because with the current financial support of 7%, this is BGN 24.36. You understand that it is insignificant and I will give you an example of why we offer in point. 1 of art. 72 this amount of 7% to be 10, as envisaged at the beginning of the project. A week ago, I got acquainted with the case of a young woman who was 26 years old. I won't mention her real name, we'll call her Galya. Galya's been living at home for two years, locked up, unable to get out, because she has a lower limb disease that puts her in a position to be isolated from the world. Galya gets £65. a month's welfare. For two years there has been a wheelchair that cannot be used, and its assistance has not been adapted to her illness. Galya is in this percentage, in this hypothesis, which I just mentioned. She's got a TELK solution of 60%. These particular 60% put it in the hypothesis that it will receive 24, 36 BGN. This support is small. Of course, I know that this project has a financial framework that we can hardly change right now. I am aware that you will not accept this proposal of ours, because we will come out of the funds so voted in the budget, which we have adopted very recently, but I will ask you to consider such cases further with revision of the Bill or other hypotheses that will be able to contribute to better funding and support, particularly to these people. Indeed the percentage is small, but there are cases in which it is such that they cannot benefit and the amount is very small, and, as I said, there are also people who stay home isolated from the world. Please consider another mechanism that can support the good existence of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u149	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Zheleva, we will not support your proposal. The answer why we will not support it, you gave it in your speech. The dimensions of the monthly financial support regulated in the Bill are the result of a lengthy debate and a consensus between all stakeholders during a discussion of the Draft in the Working Group and by the national representative organisations of and for disabled and mothers of children with disabilities. These amounts of monthly financial support are also fixed in the Action Plan on the Implementation of Policies for Disabled Persons, which is supported by the signatures of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Ombudsman's, the protesting mothers of disabled children and the national representative organisations. With a view to guaranteeing all the rights granted in this bill to all disabled persons, if we accept your proposal, we will go beyond the financial framework in respect of the funds allocated and voted by the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, provided for policies for people with disabilities, and a possible change in the size set, as you suggest, for the lowest degree with damage to disabled persons will lead to exiting the parameters. Financial resources will not be able to cover and secure this law for all disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any other lines? For the back, Mrs. Jeleva? You have the floor, please, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Angelova, yes, I guessed what your line would be to me because we also commented on this when we examined the Project in the Commission, so I took the liberty of saying at the beginning of my speech that I would not be surprised by what you would replicate me. I understand that there is some consensus, there is an understanding of the numbers, about the amounts, it is clear to me. But we as MPs cannot and should not agree with the consensus and understanding of some numbers, because we have one sum, so I understand it. That we have agreed, or rather the working group for 7, 15, 20 or 25. There are some numbers that we've adjusted to the sum. I have asked you to consider other cases and hypotheses that arise. As a Member of the National Assembly, I have the right to say that this amount is extremely small and small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the texts on which no proposals have been received by Members of the National Assembly and they shall be: in respect of the title of Section VI, supported by the Commission; the text for art. 70, which becomes art. 68, supported by the Commission, in the version proposed by the Commission; the text for art. 71, which becomes art. 69 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The proposed texts have been adopted. For art. 72 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 34 against 12, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for art. 72, which becomes Art. 70. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u154	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73, which becomes Art. 71: Art. 71. People with permanent disabilities from 18 to 20 years of age shall be entitled to monthly financial support under art. 69, p. 1 if they do not receive monthly assistance under art. 8e of the Children's Family Aid Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 72: Art. 72. Assigned aid under art. 69, p. 2 shall be provided for: 1. providing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices according to established quality standards; 2. purchase of a personal motor vehicle; 3. adaptation of housing; 4. balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services; 5. Rent of municipal apartment. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75, which becomes Art. 73: Art. 73. (1) Persons with disabilities with an established need for assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices, as specified in the lists referred to in art. 61, para. 1 shall receive targeted aid for the development, purchase and/or repair of art. 72, p. 1 except for medical devices which are paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund. (2) Target aid under para. 1 shall be obtained after presentation of a medical document issued by medical advisory committees, TELMK or NELK, certifying the need for assistance, devices, facilities and medical devices and their type, in accordance with the specific needs of the disabled person. (3) The financing and provision of assistance, facilities, and medical devices to persons with disabilities shall be carried out on the basis of a mechanism and standards for the quality of assistance, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities. (4) The mechanism and standards under para. 3 are developed and jointly validated by the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. (5) The persons with disabilities who did not use the targeted aid as intended shall recover its full value together with the interest in order to collect the public claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u155	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 71, supported by the Commission; the proposal of the importer to art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 72, supported by the Commission; the proposal of the importer for art. 75, which becomes Art. 73 in the version of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u156	Under article 76 "Project of Mihail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 76, para. 1 words the line of poverty is replaced by the minimum wage established for the country. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in art. 76, para. 2 t. Two o'clock is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76, which becomes Art. 74: Art. 74. (1) People with permanent disabilities whose mobility is difficult shall be entitled to targeted aid for the purchase of a private motor vehicle up to four times the poverty line for the relevant year if the average monthly income of a family member for the last 12 months is equal to or lower than the poverty line. (2) People with permanent disabilities shall receive the targeted assistance under para. 1 if they also meet the following additional conditions: 1. have determined by TELLC (NELC) over 90 per cent species and degree of damage or permanent reduced performance, or 2. are working or students. (3) The assistance under para. 1 may be re-used after the expiry of a 5-year period from its previous receipt, with an established need for it. Mr. Chairman, allow me to make an editorial proposal. 74 on the proposal of the Commission, in para. 2, p. 1 at the end, the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union is replaced by the Union; the Union
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u157	I read carefully to see if the meaning changes. It's changing, isn't it? Then I'll put this editorial amendment to the vote. Thank you. We believe that a convenient proposal has been made. Are there any statements on the report and on the text? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 The rights of people with permanent disabilities, reduced labour capacity above 90%, who are entitled to targeted aid are governed. This help can be obtained, as I said, "Telk over 90%," and the second subparagraph "is working or learning." Our proposal is t. 2 "Workers or learners" to drop out, because, as we said just now, there are many people with disabilities who are unemployed and looking for work. I think that this hypothesis, who are working or who are learning, should be dismissed. If they have significantly reduced labour capacity and are difficult to move, as stated in art. 76, these are people whose movement is difficult. I therefore ask you to support this proposal of ours, although I suppose you will replicate me and say that we will again go beyond the financial framework, but we have just mentioned that through this law we must overcome several barriers. One of these barriers, which we now propose with this article to remove, is to ensure affordable mobility. How would we do that if we put in such a hypothesis that would quite limit the scope of the proposed target aid? Therefore, fellow Members, think about and even go beyond the financial framework, I believe that this can be overcome and I ask you to support this sensible proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have only one question to the importers and to all those who approve of this proposal of the importer and, more precisely, point two of para. Art. 2 of art. 76 "To be working or studying. " I ask the question: if they are currently working and learning, but in two days they are not, what happens? Doesn't it bother you, like in many other cases, that these would be the people who were forced to start a formal job with some familiar employer for a month until they were given these funds and then left? Or sign up to study and then leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial amendment made in a meeting by Dr. Ademov: in the text proposed by the Commission in art. 74, para. 2, p. 1, at the end of the sentence instead of the Union............................................................................................. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. In the order of entering the proposals for art. 76: I vote on the proposal of the MPs Mihail Hristov and Dimitar Danchev, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 12, Against 34, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. 76, para. 2, p. 2, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 17 against 35, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, in the version proposed by the Commission, with the newly voted editorial amendment. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u162	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 75. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 76: Art. 76. (1) People with permanent disabilities with over 90 per cent reduced performance, children with permanent disabilities and military disability shall be entitled to targeted assistance under art. 72, p. 4 which is provided once a year in case of medical prescription by a specialist doctor for the need to conduct balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services according to their specific needs. (2) The target aid under para. 1 shall be up to 80 per cent of the poverty line for the year concerned, but not more than the expenditure actually incurred in accordance with the documents submitted. (3) The persons under para. 1 with a certain need for foreign aid shall be entitled to the aid to cover the costs of an escort, if any, of up to 80 per cent of the poverty line for the year concerned, but not more than the expenditure actually incurred in accordance with the documents submitted. (4) Target aid shall be granted where, for the same period, the services under para. 1 have not been used on any other legal basis. (5) The target aid shall be paid to the persons under para. 1 after submission of supporting documents for balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services. (6) In the case of balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services carried out in the premises of companies where the sole owner of the capital is the National Insurance Institute or the Ministry of Health, as well as in specialized rehabilitation hospitals which are authorised by the Minister of Health for activities under art. 22 of the Law on Medical Institutions, targeted aid shall be paid to the relevant establishment or specialized hospital for rehabilitation after a document submitted by them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79, which becomes Art. 77: Art. 77. (1) Right to targeted aid under art. 72, p. 5 have people with permanent disabilities, if they are single or are single parents with a child with permanent disabilities and the rental contract is concluded with them, and if they are placed under full ban and the lease contracts are concluded with their legal representatives. (2) The target aid under para. 1 is the amount of statutory rent determined under the Law on Municipal Property and is translated by the "Society support" after the presentation of a cost-administrative document by the municipality concerned. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 80, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 23, Art. 24. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 81 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 79. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 81: Art. 81. The procedure for granting, paying, amending, suspending, suspending and renewing financial support shall be laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 80. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 85, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in the systematic place in art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 78.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u163	Statements? I won't. I shall put the proposed texts to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 88, none, abstention 5. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u164	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 87, which becomes Art. 82: Art. 82. (1) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall establish and maintain an information system for persons with disabilities containing data on their health status, qualifications, educational degree, personal capacity for social inclusion, professional realization, socio-economic status, demographic and other data. (2) The data under para. 1 serve to monitor and analyse the socio-economic status of disabled people for planning activities related to meeting their individual needs and to develop sectoral policies. (3) State and local authorities having powers in the area of the rights of persons with disabilities shall collect, maintain and provide up-to-date data necessary for the work of the information system under para. 1. (4) The data in the information system shall be exchanged by the authorities under para. 3 under the Law on Electronic Governance and Electronic Certification Services and are used for the purposes of para. 2. (5) The information system of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall maintain a profile of any person with disabilities with the possibility of individual access to personal data for the person by means of identification in accordance with the Law on Electronic Identification. (6) Data shall be collected and processed in accordance with the requirements for the protection of personal data. (7) The order for keeping, maintaining and using the data in the information system under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 87, which becomes Art. 83: Art. 83. (1) The Agency for Disabled Persons shall establish and maintain a register of specialised enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons. The register shall be public and shall be maintained in electronic form. (2) In the register under para. 1 enter data on all specialized enterprises and cooperatives for people with disabilities who meet the requirements of art. 48, para. 1. (3) For entry in the register under para. 1 persons representing specialised undertakings and cooperatives for persons with disabilities, or persons authorised by them, shall submit an application on a template approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (4) To the application under para. 3 shall apply: 1. Declaration of the circumstances under art. 48, para. 1 in a model approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities; 2. a document certifying the right of persons to carry out an activity subject to registration, authorisation or authorisation under a special law. (5) The application under para. 3 along with the documents under para. 4 shall be submitted in person, by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a licensed postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 84: Art. 84. (1) Within 10 days of the date of submission of the application and the documents referred to in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 and 4 the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him shall verify the documents and the conditions under art. 48, para. 1. (2) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall give the applicant a 10-day period for their removal when finding incompleteness or discrepancies in the documents. In this case, the term of para. 1 shall be extended by the period for the removal of incompletes or non-compliances, but not more than 20 days from the date of submission of the application for entry. (3) Within three days of the expiry of the time limits under para. 1 and 2 the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him shall issue an order for entry in the Register under art. 83 or a motivated order refusing entry. (4) The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him within three days of the issue of the order shall make an entry in the register under art. 83 and issued a registration certificate. (5) The order under para. 3 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The appeal of the order under para. 3 does not stop its execution. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90, which becomes Art. 85: Art. 85. (1) The register of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons shall include the following circumstances: 1. data on the specialized enterprise or cooperative of people with disabilities.. a single identification code, name and address of the activity; 2. data on representation of the specialized enterprise or cooperative of disabled persons by registration by a competent authority, name, permanent and/or current address; 3. subject to the activity of the specialized enterprise or cooperative of people with disabilities; 4. Data under art. 48, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. date of deletion of the registration and the basis for this; 6. changes in the circumstances of t. 1 7. observations on the recorded circumstances. (2) The registered specialised undertakings and cooperatives of disabled persons shall be obliged to notify in writing or electronically the Agency for Disabled Persons of any changes in the circumstances recorded in the register within 14 days of their entry and shall also apply the relevant documents which prove them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91, which becomes Art. 86: Art. 86. (1) Registration in the register of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons is deleted: 1. at the request of the specialized enterprise or cooperative of the disabled; 2. upon termination of the activities of the specialized enterprise or cooperative of people with disabilities and upon deletion from the commercial register or from the register under art. 3 of the Law on Cooperatives; 3. in case of non-compliance with the requirements of art. 48, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. in the event of two or more infringements within one year of the provisions of art. 85, para. 2. (2) The deletion of the registration shall be carried out by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or of an official authorised by him. (3) The order under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution of the order. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 and 4 The renewal of the registration of the specialised undertaking or cooperative may take place within a period of not less than 12 months from the date of deletion. The renewal of the registration shall be carried out in accordance with art. 83. (5) The request under para. 1, t. 1 shall be submitted in person, by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a licensed postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 92, which becomes Art. 87: Art. 87. The register under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 shall be used to monitor and control specialized enterprises and cooperatives of people with disabilities, including the activities carried out by them in the implementation of targeted projects and programmes under art. 49. Monitoring and control shall be carried out by the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and shall be determined by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u165	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. All proposals are accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal that the working hours should be completed by the adoption of the bill for people with disabilities. We're almost there. Be patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u167	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 91 MPs: 80, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u168	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 93, which becomes Art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall establish and maintain a register of persons carrying out activities to provide and repair assistance, facilities, and medical devices for persons with disabilities. The register shall be public and shall be maintained in electronic form. (2) The activities of providing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices to persons with disabilities shall be carried out by persons registered as traders under the Commercial Law or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, of another State, of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation and shall have no public obligations. (3) In the register under para. 1 shall be recorded and maintained data on persons carrying out activities to provide and repair assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities. (4) For entry in the register under para. 1 persons or persons authorised by them shall submit an application on a template approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, in which the unique identification code of the person and the absence of obligations to the National Revenue Agency are mandatory. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a list of the aids, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities for which the activity will be carried out, with a description of the models of the type concerned, on an electronic medium; 2. a list of sites where assistance, devices, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons will be carried out, with the address, telephone, fax/e-mail and person responsible for the site; 3. a statement that the premises in which the provision and repair of medical devices will be carried out meet the requirements for the storage of the manufacturer as defined in the instructions for use and the requirements of the ordinance under art. 89, para. 8; 4. a list of service facilities where a warranty and extra-security service will be provided, where required, with the address, telephone, fax/e-mail and person responsible for the base. (5) To the documents under para. 4 persons who wish to register for the activity of hearing aids shall also provide a list of the hearing centres with the address, telephone, fax/e-mail and person responsible for the centre, as well as a declaration of at least two-year warranty period of the items. (6) The application and documents under para. 4 and 5 shall be submitted in person by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) by authorised postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No (7) The persons under para. 2 which are not registered under the Commercial Law, submit to the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and legalized translation of documents certifying commercial registration under their national law. (8) The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him may verify the reliability of the requested data and circumstances in his professional capacity, and the competent public authorities and administrations and applicants are obliged to provide the necessary assistance. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 94, which becomes Art. 89: Art. 89. (1) Applications submitted under art. 88, para. 4 shall be examined by a committee designated by an order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (2) Within 14 days of the date of entry of the documents under art. 88, para. 4 The Commission shall make a reasoned proposal for entry in the register or for refusal to the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (3) In the event of findings of incompleteness or discrepancies in the documents referred to in art. 88, para. 4 to the person shall be granted a 10-day period for their removal. In this case, the term of para. 2 shall be extended by the period for the removal of incompletes or non-compliances, but not more than 20 days from the date of submission of the application for entry. (4) At the discretion of the Committee under para. 1 verification of the authenticity of the documents submitted and the circumstances declared may be carried out. In this case, the term of para. 2 shall be extended by the verification period but not more than 20 days from the date of submission of the application for entry. (5) The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him within three days from the date of completion of the work of the Commission shall issue an order for entry in the register referred to in Article. 88, para. 1 or motivated order refusing entry. (6) The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him within three days of the issue of the order shall make an entry in the register under art. 88, para. 1 and issue a certificate of registration. (7) The order under para. 5 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution of the order. (8) The conditions and procedures for the implementation and control of the activities for the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 90. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96, which becomes Art. 91: Art. 91. (1) The registration of persons carrying out activities for the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities shall be deleted: 1. at the request of the person; 2. upon termination of the registration of the person as a trader; 3. in the event of two or more violations of the provisions of the law and of the regulation under art. 89, para. 8 within a year. (2) The deletion of the registration shall be carried out by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or of an official authorised by him. (3) The order under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution of the order. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 The renewal of the registration of the person operating in the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities may be carried out within a period of not less than 6 months from the date of deletion. The renewal of the registration shall be carried out in accordance with art. 88 and 89.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u169	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u170	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 97, which becomes Art. 92: Art. 92. (1) Organisations of and for disabled persons who wish to be recognised as national representative shall meet the following general criteria for national representativeness: 1. to be entered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, as legal entities for public benefit, or under the Law on Cooperatives for the operation of activities in the field of social inclusion of disabled persons at least 5 years before the application for recognition of national representativeness; 2. have at least 5 years of proven experience in the field of social inclusion of people with disabilities; 3. have members in no less than 25 percent of the municipalities in the country. (2) Except for the common criteria under para. 1 applicants for national representative organisations shall also meet the following specific criteria: 1. organisations of disabled persons shall have no less than 1800 members, of which no less than 70 per cent shall be persons with permanent disabilities, and shall be registered as non-profit legal entities for carrying out public use activities; organisations of blind deaf people shall have no less than 400 members, of which no less than 55 per cent shall be persons with permanent disabilities, and organisations of small people shall not be less than 150 members, of which no less than 50 per cent shall be persons with permanent disabilities, irrespective of their territorial coverage; 2. employers' organisations shall have not less than 10 employers and not less than 800 workers with disabilities and support staff under art. 48, para. 1; 3. organisations for disabled persons offering social services for disabled persons to serve at least 4,500 persons per year and to have at least 50 staff assigned to the care of disabled persons; 4. Parental and professional organisations for disabled persons shall have not less than 500 members for an organisation and not less than 1500 members for an association of organisations. (3) Where one natural or legal person is a member of two or more national representative organisations or organisations applying for recognition of national representativeness, with the exception of the organisations under para. 2, p. 1 sentence second, t. 2 and 4 and the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims, to establish the criteria for representativeness under para. 2 that person shall not be accounted for when establishing the numerical composition of any organisation. (4) Organizations of and for persons with disabilities who do not individually meet the criteria for national representativeness under para. 1 and 2 can associate and participate in the National Council for Disabled People as associations with common representation. (5) The conditions and procedures for recognition of national representativeness, as well as the control of compliance with the criteria, shall be laid down by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98, which becomes Art. 93: Art. 93. The financing of the activities under the law shall be carried out by means of: 1. the state budget; 2. the budgets of the municipalities; 3. national projects and programmes, the ESI Funds and projects and programmes financed by other international financial institutions and donors; 4. donations from local and foreign natural and legal persons; 5. other sources. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 99, which becomes art. 94: Art. 94. The Agency's resources for people with disabilities under art. 44, para. 3 are spent for the realization of the activities set out in the National Programme for Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100, which becomes art. 95: Art. 95. (1) The State shall provide financial support for activities of the organizations of and for those with disabilities with recognised national representativeness under art. 92 in the form of a subsidy from the state budget. (2) The terms and procedures for granting the subsidy shall be laid down by the rules for the application of the law. (3) The implementation of the activities under para. 1 is subject to control by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in order laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, which becomes Art. 96.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u171	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues, I propose that the President invite our colleagues from the BSP because they have 10 people left and their leader suggested that in August we do not rest so that we can adopt the Law. Where are they now? I don't see them. [[Applause from GERB.]] They're offering to cut wages. They're already making up for their salaries. [[Speak away from the microphones.]] If I may, call them to the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u173	Thank you. Please continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u174	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Under art. 102 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 102, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 97: Art. 97. (1) An employer who has not fulfilled the obligation under art. 38, para. 6, a fine is required from 1000 to 2000 BGN. or a financial penalty from 2000 to 5000 BGN. (2) If the penalty is repeated, the penalty shall be from 4000 to 10 000
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u175	Thank you. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the name of Chapter 7 by importer, which is supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, in order to avoid confusion, we are voting on a text by the importer on the name of Chapter Seven, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 20, against 40, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the initiative The system is killing us, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote Cornelia Ninova's proposal, which we did not support to give Mrs. Ninova a chance to enter the Chamber, to explain her proposal and to enable the MPs from the BSP, who are currently 15 people, to be more in the Chamber. This is an extremely important law and I believe that the responsibility of all of us MPs is to be here. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u177	I'm going to re-vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u178	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u179	I'll give you the floor after that. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I re-vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Parliament's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They voted 111 MPs: 20, against 58, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, we are talking to you, you say that you know the Rules, you allow Mrs. Atanasova to speak from the stage of the re-voting procedure, various agitations to do who was in the room, who was not here. What Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova is doing is not acceptable. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You know that very well, and you didn't interrupt the speech, you didn't even comment on it. If I'm wrong, say, "Mr. Gokov, you're wrong! " - If I'm right - make a remark to Mrs. Atanasova and don't repeat that thing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If I now began to explain how important the law really is and that if it was not for the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, which first supported the mothers who stood above, it would not be held. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Do you want us to fall back into this debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u182	Because, Mr. Chairman, when you allow a violation of the manner of conduct, then you cause dozens of other ways of conduct afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u183	Mr. Gokov, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u184	Keep that in mind and don't let it happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u185	The next procedure in the manner of holding you have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u186	Dear Mr. President, I address you in the manner of conduct, because if any Member of the National Assembly does not know the Rules, you should remind him of that when he violates the re-voting procedure. If any MP, regardless of the years spent in parliament, does not know that under a re-vote procedure there is no further justification for what the people representative calls for, you must tell him that this is impossible, and ask him why he is so pettyly picking on things that are neither in his competence nor in his social sensitivity. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] nor are they within his authority to give assessments. If you intend to change the Rules of the National Assembly once again, so that your MPs can speak their minds when they want, what they want and at any time, do so, but under the existing Rules, you should have made the slightest remark or at least learned your MP what is right, what is not right when it comes to a revoting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 12, against 25, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 102 by importer, which becomes art. 97. They voted 119 MPs: 105, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u188	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 98: Art. 98. (1) Employer, respectively an appointing authority which does not fulfil an obligation under art. 44, para. 3, or an official who does not fulfil an obligation under the law, shall be punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN. or with a penalty of 1000 to 2000 BGN, if it is not subject to a more severe penalty. (2) In case of repeated infringement the fine, respectively the penalty shall be from 2000 to 4000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 104, which becomes Art. 99: Art. 99. To a person engaged in the provision of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities in violation of the provisions of the law and of the ordinance under art. 89, para. 8, a fine is imposed, a corresponding penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN. on a case-by-case basis. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 105, which becomes Art. 100: Art. 100. (1) For infringements under art. 53 In the design, coordination, approval and issue of building papers, the execution of construction works in accordance with the issued building papers and failure to comply with the orders of the competent authorities in the design and construction shall apply the administrative criminal provisions and acts for the establishment of infringements under the Law on Construction in the territory shall be issued. (2) The acts establishing the administrative infringements under para. 1 and the penal decrees shall be drawn up and issued in accordance with the Law on Structure of the Area. Under art. 106 has a proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106, which becomes art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The acts establishing the administrative infringements of the law shall be issued by officials of: 1. The State Financial Inspection Agency for Financial Disruptions; 2. The Executive Agency shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. 3. the regional managements of education for violations in the field of education; 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 5. The Agency for Social Assistance for infringements in the field of targeted aid under art. 72; 6. The Agency for Persons with Disabilities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 72. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by: 1. the Director of the Agency for State Financial Inspection or an official authorised by him; 2. the Executive Director of the Executive Agency 3. the head of the relevant regional management of education; 4. the Executive Director of the Executive Agency 5. the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency. 6. the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance or an official authorised by him; 7. the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or an official authorised by him. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. (4) Penal decrees entered into force shall be subject to collection under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (5) The bodies of para. 1 provide annually by 31 December at the Agency for Persons with Disabilities information on the checks carried out and the penalties imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u189	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u190	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division: Under § 1, there are proposals of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In the Additional Provisions, § 1, point (c) 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. letter.......................................................................................... 2. letter.................................................................................................... (b) (a.k.a. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, 3. letter................................................................................................. 4. letter (s) shall be b. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. 5. letter........................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the purposes of the law: 1. People with disabilities are individuals with physical, mental, intellectual and sensory failure, which, when interacting with their surroundings, could hinder their full and effective participation in public life. 2. People with permanent disabilities are persons with permanent physical, mental, intellectual and sensory insufficiency, who, in interaction with their surroundings, could hinder their full and effective participation in public life and of whom medical expertise has established a type and degree of damage 50 and over 50 percent. 3. "Communication" includes all languages, visual presentation of text, Braille alphabet, tactile communication, enlarged fonts, accessible multimedia, as well as any written, sound, dictatorial, complementary and alternative methods, simplified language, including accessible information and communication technologies. 4. "Language" includes spoken and sign languages, as well as any other forms of non-speaking language. 5. "Sustainable claims' are all necessary and appropriate modifications and gadgets which do not lead to disproportionate or undue burden on others, where necessary, in order to ensure that persons with disabilities are recognised or exercised in accordance with the terms of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 6. "Universal design" is a design of products, living environments, programs and services to be used to the maximum extent by all people without having to adapt them or specialized design. The use of universal design does not preclude the availability of auxiliary appliances and tools for certain groups of disabled persons where necessary. 7. Rehabilitation is a consistent and continuous recovery process that helps a person with disabilities to reach optimal physical, intellectual, mental and social levels of activity, providing him with opportunities to change life to a higher degree of independence. 8. The actions taken to prevent physical, intellectual, mental or sensory damage or to prevent damage due to prolonged dysfunction or damage, as well as adaptation of the environment, are actions taken to prevent physical, intellectual, mental or sensory damage. 9. "Help funds, facilities and facilities' are tools designed by the manufacturer to compensate for the lost or damaged function of a human body in order to increase the opportunities for self-service, employment and other activities of disabled persons. 10. "Employment and treatment facilities" are units found in specialized institutions for social services, for the implementation of work therapy and rehabilitation of people with disabilities. 11. "Diligences of disabled people" are organizations in which more than half of the members are disabled and are guided by disabled people. 12. For disabled people, organisations are designed to provide services to and for disabled people and who take on an advocacy role on behalf of disabled people. 13. It is a working environment in every enterprise in the national economy. 14. The work environment is the working environment in specialized enterprises adapted to people with disabilities. 15. The dogs are dogs trained in specialized schools, which is demonstrated by a certificate of passed training, distinctive service equipment and signs. 16. "Faces with difficulties in moving are people who have a permanently formed deficit of standing, moving and endurance. 17. The poverty line is a monetary indicator for identifying the poor in society, determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. 18. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in the internal market and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. 19. The income shall be all the family's gross incomes that are borne under the Income Tax Act of natural persons, as well as the received pensions, benefits, benefits and scholarships, with the exception of the foreign aid allowance under art. 103 of the Social Security Code, the scholarships of students until the completion of secondary education, but no later than the age of 20, as well as the benefits and funds received under the law and under the Child Protection Act and the Social Assistance Act. 20. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (a) employment; (b) activities in the field of agriculture, forestry and water; (c) sale and/or exchange of movable or immovable property; (d) sale of shares, shares and other interests in commercial companies and other forms of joint activity; (e) rent, rent and lease; (f) copyright and licence remuneration; (g) dividends and equity income; (h) bonuses and prizes from sports competitions; (i) benefits and benefits; (k) pensions; (l) scholarships; (m) monthly supplements and child support; (n) abstentions awarded; (o) others. 21. They shall not be considered to be income in the award of targeted aid: (a) financial support; (b) the addition to non-aid pensions of disabled persons with reduced working capacity above 90 per cent with certain foreign assistance; (c) the single birth aid under art. 6 of the Law on Family Aid for Children; (d) humanitarian aid; (e) one-off compensation to pensions or extraordinary pensions; (f) additions to the pension of veterans, volunteers and victims who participated in the Fatherland War and those who were injured in the execution of missions in the United Nations military contingents; (g) the additional monthly compensation to the pensions of those over 75 or 80; (h) the aid fixed by an act of the Council of Ministers; (i) the amounts that those placed in specialised institutions for the provision of social services receive as remuneration for participation in a labour therapy process; (k) the funds and aid granted under the Rules for the Implementation of the Child Protection Act (prom., SG No. ...). 22. "Support staff' are workers in the specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled people and the labour-health facilities that assist disabled people in their work process and carry out work that is impossible by volume and burden to be carried out by them. 23. It is a form of employment for people with multiple permanent disabilities in centres of protected employment, accompanied by a package of supporting services. 24. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same by type of infringement shall be repeated.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u191	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The proposal, which makes our parliamentary group, is related to this. 20 to § 1 of the Additional Provisions, namely the income which formulates the award of targeted aid and lists the revenue originating from the activities concerned. As you all know, the law on personal income taxes exempts certain categories of such income from taxation. Article 13 in particular of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals excludes from taxation the premiums from prizes from sports competitions. 13, para. 1, t. 22; excludes scholarships in art. 13, para. 1, t. 18. In this regard is our proposal for those who, under the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, are exempt from taxation of such revenue, we propose to drop out of this. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Moreover, our proposal on these incomes is related to dropping out and monthly supplements and targeted aid for children.................................................................................I think that you all understand the arguments. Unclear for us you enter with the letter... other revenue..................... other revenue... which is not clear how they are formulated and why they are here. After all, we are talking about the specific, about revenue that is clear from where it comes from, and at some point we are also formulating the letter "o": other revenue........................................................................ what?...................................... what?...........................................................................................................................! This text is extremely untenable. In this regard, our proposal is to drop the bonuses from sports competitions from taxation; scholarships; monthly supplements and child benefit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 21, against 50, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I'll put two texts to the vote. First, the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the division, the second text, which the Commission proposes for the wording of § 1. They voted 107 MPs: 92, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u194	The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the division. According to § 2 "A proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: In Paragraph 2 of this Article, the following shall be added: 4 and 5 the words "sixteen' are replaced by "sixteen' and "sixteen' and "sixteen' are replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 2, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Law on the integration of people with disabilities (prom., SG No. ...) is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Until 31 March 2019, including the Council of Ministers: 1. adopt rules for the implementation of this law; 2. adopt the methodology under art. 22, para. 3; 3. establish the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Social Assistance in accordance with the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ The National Council for Persons with Disabilities is the successor of the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 6 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u195	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 20, against 50, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the division.. is supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 2; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3, which shall become § 2; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5, which shall become § 4, and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of the text of the importer for § 6. They voted 107 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u196	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. By 31 March 2019, including the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency: 1. form specialized departments for the preparation of individual needs assessment; 2. organize and conduct the trainings of the experts from the specialized departments under point 2. 1; 3. brings the Integrated Information System into line with the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) Until 31 March 2019, including those with disabilities shall be entitled to targeted aid under art. 72, p. 1 on the basis of an application, a statement on a template approved by the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency and an individual assessment of the needs shall not be drawn up. (2) Until 31 March 2019, including those with permanent disabilities shall be entitled to monthly financial support under art. 70 and/or targeted aid under art. 72, p. 2 - 5 - on the basis of an application -......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (3) The application shall be made to the Department of Social Assistance at the current address of the disabled person, to which medical documents or expert decision of TelK or NELK shall apply. (4) To the application a declaration for the granting of targeted aid under art. 72, p. The relevant documents referred to in Article 5 and 6 shall apply. 76 and 77. (5) The order to grant monthly financial support under art. 70 and/or the granting of assigned aid under art. 72, p. 2 "5" shall be issued by the end of the month following the month of submission of the documents under para. 1........................................................... (6) The order to grant targeted aid under art. 72, p. 1 shall be issued within 10 days of submission of the documents under para. 1........................................................... Target aid is provided in the current order. (7) The orders under para. 5 and 6 shall be communicated in writing to the person who submitted the application for a declaration within 7 days of their issuance. (8) The refusal to grant financial support shall be motivated. (9) The orders under para. 5 and 6 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The claims of the persons for financial support shall be repaid within three months of the end of the month to which they relate. (11) The order to grant monthly financial support under art. 70 shall be issued for the period specified in the expert decision to determine the percentage of permanently reduced performance or type and extent of disability. The period of validity of the order, issued on the basis of a life-saving expert decision, as well as in the cases referred to in art. 26, para. 3 is 5 years from the date of issue. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 7: .................................................... (1) From 1 January 2019 the social pensions for invalidity paid pursuant to § 22t of the transitional and final provisions of the Social Security Code shall be terminated by the National Insurance Institute on the basis of art. 96, para. 1, t. 4 of the Social Security Code and to the persons who received these pensions from 1 January 2019. The Agency for Social Assistance shall pay an amount in the amount of the monthly financial support under art. 70 as an individual assessment of the needs under art. 20 shall not be drawn. (2) The administrative acts entered into force until 31 December 2018 including individual administrative acts for the granting of monthly social integration supplements for transport services, information and telecommunications services, training, diet and medicinal products and for accessible information shall be converted by the Social Assistance Agency into monthly financial support and to the persons from 1 January 2019, the Agency shall pay an amount in the amount of the monthly financial support under art. 70 as an individual assessment of the needs under art. 20 shall not be drawn. (3) In cases where the determined monthly financial support under para. 1 and 2 is less than paid until the entry into force of the law, the more favourable to the person is granted. (4) For the purposes of para. 1 adopted by the State Social Security Budget Act for 2019 transfers under art. 4, para. 1 and the costs of art. 4, para. 2, p. 1.1.2 of the same law is reduced to up to 133 000 thousand. lv. (5) The Council of Ministers shall approve additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2019 up to the amount under para. 4 for the purposes of the implementation under para. 1. (6) Within one month of the promulgation of the law, the National Insurance Institute shall provide the Social Assistance Agency with information on persons whose social disability pensions are terminated under para. 1 in a row determined by an agreement between the two institutions. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... By 31 December 2019, including the maximum amounts of targeted aid for the development, purchase and repair of aids, fittings, facilities and medical devices shall be determined and updated by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in agreement with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u197	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission, including the withdrawal texts. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u198	Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 9: ..................................................... By 30 September 2019 the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund shall jointly develop and validate the mechanism and standards under art. 73, para. 3. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Unfinished proceedings under the repealed Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities are completed in the current order until the entry into force of the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Organisations recognised as national representative until the entry into force of the law shall retain their representativeness until the expiry of the period for which they are recognised. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. (1) For the functioning of the State Agency for Persons with Disabilities under § 11, teams shall be formed, whose compositions shall be provided by transformation of a number of posts by the Agency for Social Assistance. (2) The labour and service relationships of the employees in the teams under para. 1 shall be settled under the conditions of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 15. Mr President, the Commission's proposal to create § 13 has made a technical mistake. Instead of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u199	It's an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u200	Yeah, an editorial amendment. In Paragraph 13 of the Commission, in para. 1 instead of.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u201	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission, including the editorial amendment proposed by Dr. Ademov, including the renumbering and dropping of paragraphs on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. All proposed texts shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 17. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 23a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 232a, para. 1 after the comma after the word "Law" is added in violation of the requirements of the Law for People with Disabilities, a................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u203	Do you have any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 109 MPs: 20, against 59, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 22 and 23, supported by the Commission, which shall become 16 and 17. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u204	Proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn during the discussion in the Commission. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 18 - 26: .............................................................................. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 40, para. 3, p. 9 With a loss of capacity over 90 per cent who are constantly in need of foreign assistance, they are replaced by 50 per cent and over 50 per cent and a degree of disability or with a permanently reduced capacity with certain foreign assistance. § 19. In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 15 words................................................... the integration of people with disabilities........................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1, t. 1 (b) The words "c' shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 29 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities 83 of the Law on Disabled People. § 20. In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) in § 6 t. 64 of the additional provisions are amended as follows: It's 64. A person with permanent impairment shall be a person within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the additional provision of the Law on People with Disabilities. .................................................................. In the Law on Labour Inspection (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 6, p. 1 letter "in" the words "for integration of people with disabilities" are replaced by "for people with disabilities." § 22. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1, t. 7 words.............................................................................. 29 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities 83 of the Law on Disabled People. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words............................................... the integration of people with disabilities................................................. § 23. In the Law on Medical Products (prom., SG No. ...) in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, t. 6 the words................................................................................................. § 24. In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 9 words.............................................................................. 29 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities 83 of the Law on Disabled People. 2. In § 2, t. 46 of the additional provisions, the words "art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on the Integration of People with Disabilities 48, para. 1 of the Law on Disabled People. § 25. In the Law on Family Aid for Children (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t. 2 of the additional provisions, the words "the right to integration of people with disabilities" shall be replaced by "the right to benefit people with disabilities." § 26. The legislation on the application of the repealed Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities shall apply insofar as it does not conflict with the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2019, with the exception of: 1. Article 73, para. 3 and § 16 and 18, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020; Paragraph 7 (b) is replaced by the following: 6 which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 3 paragraphs 12 and 13, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-05.u205	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal to create paragraphs 18 to 26, including, with a text according to the Commission proposal; the text of the importer for § 27; and the Commission proposal to create a new § 28, with a text according to the Commission proposal. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session is on 6 December 2018 at 9.00 hours according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
