ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today on the Program you know that the draft decision for voting distrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov due to failure in the field of health. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 October 2018. The voting of the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the debates pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I'm making a procedural proposal under art. 51, para. 1 of the Rules for direct transmission of the debates referred to in point 9th "First for today, on the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u3	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. Vote 184 MPs: for 182, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in for a statement, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u4	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues! These days, the President called on all politicians, MPs, ministers, prime minister to keep radio silence on the issue of buying the fighters for 10 billion. We accept this call personally, colleagues, because you are still silent about the deal of the transition, which we define as the biggest robbery of the Bulgarians in the last 30 years. Only we of Volja are interested in how these 10 billion collected from the labor of Bulgarian citizens will be spent. At these very moments it is understood who is opposition, who is imitation, who is facing the system and who is the system. So at what point is the president sincere when he says enthusiastically that poverty in society is generating corruption and crime; when he says that in the country it is dark and it is high time to turn on the spotlight, and this is the most important and urgent thing we need to do for Bulgaria to have it; or when he says to keep radio silence? Radio silence, you and I of Volya will not be silent. [[Happy tidings.]] Why in a duet with Karakachanov want to keep quiet I don't know. But I see you all do. Why? I don't know that either. We will continue to ask: who, how and why does he want to spend 10 billion on the Bulgarian taxpayer? In the presidential elections, BSP told us: "With Radev's choice, people showed that they want change... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u6	...and declared themselves an alternative. It has not been two years since then, and it has become clear what is the alternative. "We have received a call: "Save radio silence. " Today we are again clearly offered an alternative, but if a president, supported by the BSP, calls us not to talk about how 10 billion will be spent, what does BSP expect us to do if BSP comes to power? Is that the alternative? [[Radio.]] Perhaps a change that both pensions and health care and education will be piled up at Graff Ignatevo Airport in the form of iron. [[Happy tidings.]] To all of this, we tell you: we will not be silent, but we will not participate in meaningless, ineffective votes of mistrust. In a moment, we will go to really needy people with solutions, colleagues, not findings, and we will not listen to the same stories that have been repeated for years!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u7	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u8	We want to be remembered as good statesmen, that's how they think true patriots and good statesmen who history has recognised as such. [[Noise in the room.]] Before you spend huge defense funds, you have to create such a level of life for the people that they are ready to ask for it, said one great general and former president of Finland. You choose for yourself what you want to be and how you want to remember your history! [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Dr. Daritkova, please come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Please rest in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Ministers of Health Svetlana Yordanova, Women Nacheva and Boyko Penkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Please vote on this procedure. Vote 170 MPs: 152, against 12, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. During this time I will read you a message: on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 18 October 2018 a Decree No 230 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, with which the Law amending the State Property Act adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. We're moving to point one for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO BENEFICIATE THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FRIENDED BORISOV BENEFICIARIES IN THE AREA OF HEALTH. On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 79 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the field of healthcare. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 15 October 2018, Monday, at 15.46, No 854-02-55 of 15 October 2018. On the same day the materials were distributed by one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Colleagues, I will inform you how much time you have for the debates: the parliamentary group of GERB has 30 minutes, the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group. A total of 98 minutes. Mr. Gokov, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u12	Madam President, my procedure is with you: is it possible to invite the Prime Minister to attend the vote of mistrust? [[GERB loud noise]] , and also the deputy prime minister Valeri Simeonov, in whose portfolio is health care? We invited all the ministers here, as far as I can see, the Deputy Minister of Health. Do you think it's normal for the Prime Minister and the deputy prime minister not to attend the vote of distrust? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I think you've been neglecting this instrument since the beginning, and I think it's right for us to invite them. Moreover, Bulgarian citizens expect the head of the state to say the hard word in the National Assembly on health matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I have contacted the Prime Minister, he is absent from the country, he is visiting Brussels, so there is no way to attend. I believe he's with us in spirit. Thank you. I give the floor to the importers to present the reasons and the draft decision on the no-confidence vote within 10 minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise in the room.]] Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs and dear Bulgarian citizens! Before we begin the debate, we greet the doctors with today's celebration. We wish them to be healthy and to have the strength to continue treating and helping the Bulgarian people, and we urge them to be active participants in the discussions and in making decisions about the future of the health system. Today we want the resignation of the government of Boyko Borisov for the destruction of healthcare in Bulgaria! The vote of mistrust is for the last two years of government, but Borisov rules Bulgaria in the last 10. For these 10 years, he replaced 9 ministers by almost a minister a year, and 8 managers of the Health Insurance Fund. The result today is as follows: health money in this period is constantly increasing and is now reaching nearly 9 billion. lv. But 4 billion of them, dear Bulgarians, you pay out of your pocket, that is, your basic, guaranteed right for free healthcare is violated in the Constitution. You pay for team selection, medical supplies, consumables above the table and below the table. As a result of this management, health is no longer the same as the Constitution guarantees you access. Eighty percent of hospitals are in three big cities. For example, a mother must travel from Svishtov to Tarnovo 80 km as a result of the closure of the maternity ward there. Municipal hospitals are bankrupt. They owe about 500 million. lv. The hospitals in Vratsa, Lovech, Vidin, Stara Zagora, Chirpan, Nova Zagora, Devin and others, but also in the courtyards of district hospitals arise profitable private structures that suck resources from the Health Insurance Fund, from the medical establishments, from your pockets. Dear managers, for 10 years you have brought the system to the point that you will have to replace it with..... and money...................................................................................................................................................................... with....................................................................... If you don't have either, or both at the same time, you're doomed. Thirdly, we want the cabinet's resignation for drug policy. The drugs are getting more expensive. Cheaps are out of control. Forty-five percent of your health money goes to meds. In Europe, which we have long been in, this percentage is 25. Who's profiting from this? Make your own conclusions! The fourth one is treated in clinical pathways without a clear mechanism of how they are valued. Acting on the principle of which the lobby prevails, it gets higher rated paths. In order to collect the money from the Health Insurance Fund and from the people, patients are accepted five, six times in different paths, and some do not enter the hospital at all, but are led there to take the money. Hospitalizations have increased for this period twice. 3 million hospitalizations and the Bulgarians have decreased by 1 million in this period. Of course, it's not the doctors' fault, it's the system you created that forces them to do this so that their hospitals don't go bankrupt. We also want your resignation for being forced by such a system, doctors are fleeing Bulgaria, leaving, and the situation with nurses is catastrophic; for lack of any prevention to prevent severe diseases, for abandoning the emergency problems, you have delayed key procedures such as regional health infrastructure and the project............................... Perhaps many of you do not even know, members of the government, that the Ministry of Health no longer pays the Fund. And emergency assistance in many places in Bulgaria remained the only possible access of Bulgarian citizens to treatment! We want the resignation of the government because the government of Boyko Borisov 3 does not return to the Health Insurance Fund 1.5 billion. lv. by the health insurance of the Bulgarian citizens, taken by the government of Boyko Borisov 1, with Finance Minister Simeon Djankov, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court at the request of BSP already then, and because the government of Boyko Borisov does not pay in full the health insurance of children, pensioners and civil servants, which is required to do by law. And that's why there's a billion in the Health Insurance Fund. 200 million. lv. less, because the government is the most incorrect payer in the country to the health system. Because of all these problems, we from BSP for Bulgaria have called for a debate on health reform in the National Assembly and obliged the Minister to present a new concept of health insurance and sectoral reforms. I am focusing on sectoral reforms, colleagues, because we have not been presented these! We want your resignation because the Minister and the Government failed to comply with the National Assembly's decision! You presented a project where there are no sectoral reforms, there is only a mechanism for increasing the revenues in the Health Insurance Fund and the government sees it through additional burden on Bulgarian citizens with more payments. Instead of the government paying the amount already due 1 billion. 200 million. BGN instead of returning the illegal 1.5 billion. lv. From people's money, you force them to pay once more. This will lead to the following: in this proposal citizens will pay several times for their treatment in the hospital with four types of payments. The first is the compulsory insurance of 8%, the second is the compulsory health insurance of 12 BGN. per month, anything above the price of the clinical path, valued by hospitals, and the price of the already mandatory choice of team and medical devices and the price of the so-called extris. Well, how do you think this is possible for the multitude of Bulgarian citizens, especially those who live on the poverty threshold, are in poverty, are miserable, and they need the most help from the health system? Of course, there are other options for developing health care. There is also an alternative from BSP for Bulgaria. Perhaps not the only one, perhaps there are other smart proposals outside the parliament, but we state clearly and categorically ours by making it our primary goal to bring the state back to the management, regulation and control of health care in Bulgaria and to guarantee everyone access to healthcare. This will be done in the following way: for health insured persons guaranteed access to free and timely medical services, as stated in the Constitution of Bulgaria; for health-insured and socially weak, stately guaranteed basic package of medical services; for the removal of the commercial status of public health institutions and their replacement with a basic new status; for detailed exploitation of all medical activities and the labour of medical professionals; for the establishment of a national health care system on a regional principle; for the establishment of a vertical and horizontal integration; and in each region the medical institutions are united in a single structure; for the implementation of the National Health Card; for the non-demopolisation of the National Health Insurance Fund; for children, pensioners and civil servants, and for the introduction of personal medical records; and for the introduction of a differentiated rate of VAT on medicinal products and medical products. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are about to hold the debate, hopefully worth it. Let anyone who speaks from this tribune declare as our Rules require if there is a conflict of interest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Was he before he entered this hospital room, a hospital owner, involved in pharmaceutical companies, and whose interests he represents here? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On behalf of whom is he speaking on behalf of his constituents, on behalf of NGOs...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u15	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u16	Please be from speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u17	Okay, from speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u18	On whose behalf is he speaking? Because, to be sure of what I am telling you, to be sure of the assessment of the current state of affairs, because we are making a vote of no confidence about the current state and not about your future intentions, as you are trying to suggest, to make sure that your proposals do not work, this is a quote, and that what we are proposing is reasonable and possible, we held before we submitted the vote, numerous meetings with doctors, patients, municipal hospitals and insurers. Today we are telling you their opinion, as it turns out that neither for the vote nor for the proposed reform you have sought any of them. [[(Replications from the MPs Daniela Daritkova and Tsvetan Tsvetanov:]] National Patient Organization: It is best to die in Bulgaria, i.e. there is no patient.. no problem.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They share our ideas for reducing the VAT on medicines for regional health structures, a regulation on salaries of medics and a health care fund. National Association of General Practitioners: It is strange for the government to make us choose between two models that both do not fit. The government is only looking for a way to raise new money from the people, according to the general practitioners, not only BSP. They say: "No one has asked us to give an opinion. This is not a reform of health care, and they support our proposals for the VAT of medicines, which is lower, regional health organizations, which are costing doctoral work. Association of Municipal Hospitals: Our discontent with the policy of the government is huge. The proposed changes by the government put us in an even worse state. This will lead to the closure of more municipal hospitals and support some of our ideas, which I do not have time to say everything about. Bulgarian Medical Union: The health system is hanging. Nothing has changed since 2013. A major problem is the Gymnastics. There are disproportions in the doctors' pay. The government completely ignores the Bulgarian Medical Union. His role, opinion and professionalism is neglected and the Ministry of Finance monopolises the casata. They want the state to contribute its full health contributions, to have regional coverage and to restore the dialogue with the Bulgarian Medical Union by making them an active participant in decision-making. The insurance companies that you want to impose new responsibilities on say, "The government's proposals are unacceptable. We have not been spoken to, nothing has been discussed and nothing is agreed. We can't take the risks the government wants us to take. They say they want a health card and an electronic file, which we suggest is done. Perhaps the most important is the assessment that you honourable rulers give yourself in the 2017 National Security Report, which you unanimously voted on two days ago. And there you are doing "You see what an assessment of the work in 2017 in health care: The applied management approaches and decisions in 2017 in the field of health did not bring noticeable results for society in dealing with the challenges, did not improve the quality of the medical services provided, no progress was made in removing the prerequisites for corruption, the wrong territorial distribution of general practitioners and specialists continues to limit the access of part of the population to health services. In these assessments of everyone you want to affect with your intentions for reform and who you have put into this situation, which today is the health care that are here, I thank you for coming, representatives of different organizations, we have invited them today to witness this debate, so in this condition, with this self-assessment that you are giving yourself in the National Security Report, the only solution to the issue is the government to resign and leave! There's an alternative. It is not only the one of the BSP for Bulgaria, which we presented in the Vision for Bulgaria and present to the whole society. There must be other reasonable and good proposals, including those we have received from all organisations, for which I thank them. However, in order to make this alternative possible in order to return the rule of law to ensure the constitutionally fixed rights of Bulgarians for accessible and free healthcare, it is necessary for the government of Boyko Borisov 3 to resign. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to Mrs. Ninova's statement? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking a line because I'm tired of being lied to with big, Komsomol, not blue, honest eyes and me and the whole of Bulgaria. And from here to start the lie that follows. Enough with the 10 years he's been running GERB! Well, the bill is very simple, my colleagues! GERB has been ruling since 2009, the United Patriarchs with them since a year and a half ago, until only three years ago managed Mr. Oresharski's government! Is that right? [[Applause by MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] And if we are talking about governance, duration of management, I have made a rough bill: from the last 29 years on November 10 will become 29 years, BSP has a majority in five of the 11 national meetings. Who's responsible?! And 13 years of government, alone or in a coalition, understand by Coalition "Every time when they rule in a coalition, they have the decisive word, they have the primary responsibility, BSP is the senior partner. What has BSP done through these departments, where is the responsibility, including health care? Colleagues, if we take the last 74 years, add these years and who manages Bulgaria for so long? Who has ruled Bulgaria for so long?! Because BSP is born, BSP recognizes its relationship with the old government before November 10th. Let's be objective and not talk nonsense...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u21	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u22	...not to roll around, not to spread mutual and universal lies throughout Bulgaria and to irradiate Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Time's up. Second line? I don't see a second line. A hole? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u24	Mr. Shopov and fellow Members of the European Union, I call on you to support the President still of the parliamentary group of the United patriots and Mr. Volen Siderov, who said a few days ago: "Whatever improvements the government should make, the system is on the wrong construction. Why not consider a radical change of this system? Because the hospital can't be a trading company. Support BSP's proposal that hospitals are not commercial companies. Health is not a market. Support BSP's proposal that health is not a commodity and is not a market. Every delivery cannot be given in the hands of private companies. Support our proposal for a new policy in medicinal auctions and a state role in deciding on the prices of these medicines. Now is the time, because now you are in charge and it is in your hands that your leader's ideas become reality, but they will only happen if this government goes away and otherwise realizes them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. Statements? Come in for your speeches, fellow Members. [[Replys: "No. "]] I take it there are no speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to say the honorable Prime Minister, but he's absent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u27	Say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u28	But I'm still going to say it: a distinguished absent Prime Minister! I'm starting with this because my firm belief is that this is not a vote of no confidence against the Minister of Health. We have already discussed that since 2009 there have been 9 years in which GERB manages. During this time, nine ministers have changed, if I am not mistaken, and this minister, who is now ruling, is actually the last of them, so to direct this vote against the minister, would not be honorable. For me it is undeniable that this is a vote of no confidence against GERB and personally against Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Is there anyone in the Chamber, by the way, who can responsibly claim that in the past 9 years, health care in Bulgaria has become better and not worse? I'm ready to argue with anyone who tries to say it, and with arguments. And if it is true that in those 9 years healthcare has actually become worse, that it is going down, that our common conclusion is that in fact the healthcare system is in front of collapse and that is said by specialists, and not by me, there is no way you can blame BSP for that, gentlemen, there is no way! In these nine years, you are the ones who are responsible, as some of the gentlemen of the patriots pretend they are not from here and are for a while, even though they are longer than I am in Parliament. That is, we are going down permanently, and the fact that we are going down permanently has very specific dimensions. And one of them, of course, which is why I'm taking the floor, is what I've been doing, unfortunately, for the past year, and these are lung transplants. You haven't had lung transplants for a year and a half. Previously, for three years from 2014 to 2017, there were 8 lung transplants made to Bulgarian citizens, thank God, all 8 were transplanted alive. Some of them work, they feel good, I don't have information for everyone, but the ones I've seen are certainly all alive. At the same time, from May 2017 to the year and a half, we have, unfortunately, 8 victims, because these are victims. We are talking about 8 Bulgarian citizens who are on the transplant list, which means that doctors, as well as the previous 8 have given a clear signal that these people can be transplanted and can live. We have eight citizens who could practically be alive right now. In the meantime, we have more than 10 donors submitted to the European Transplant, which means that respectively we have more than 10 lungs that have gone somewhere, but not to them, we have hospitals in Vienna, in Germany, in Turkey, who do transplants and have repeatedly convinced us that there is also money for transplants. There are sick people, there are donors, there are organs, we have hospitals, we have money. What don't we have to survive these eight people? What don't we have? We don't have the organization, and we don't have what we need to gather all these things together to finally save some people's lives. That we don't have. Now these 8 people, if they were not Bulgarian citizens, but were Austrian, German or, notice, again Turkish citizens, these 8 people would now be alive, they would not be victims. Let's just say you haven't figured out what this is about, it's impossible. We have done, as Cornelia Ninova has already mentioned, debates on the topic of............. several times.......................................................................... I specifically put her on the subject of pulmonary transplants twice in the Complaints Committee and we looked at her. Meanwhile, we have asked at least three parliamentary questions to the Minister of Health: why is this happening, how should it be fixed, what should happen? We've given countless interviews, including Walter Tepetko's from July 13th in 24 hours, where he says a bunch of things about how they're ready to transplant right away and so on. Tell me, what more could a parliamentary opposition have done to suggest that there is a problem here? Is there anything else BSP might have done to you? What we could do from the instruments of the parliamentary opposition separately, that the organizations of people with disabilities ten times during this time protested, including those of the pulmonary. This is the situation at the moment and this is the occasion for me personally to ask for your resignation, because 8 victims are the reason to ask for a resignation. By the way, they're also a cause for a criminal investigation, because I think we should look at the Penal Code here. Someone's the reason for this? I don't know who he is, I was expecting the minister to tell me. I hope he tells us today because someone's responsible for this. We're talking about a Penal Code directly. So, dear colleagues, the system kills it literally. However, this system in the last 9 years, especially now, has a name and it is Boyko Borisov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u29	Mr. Kutev, it wasn't the right thing to say. In the end, you did not finish your speech correctly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u30	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u31	I don't see any speeches, colleagues. Make a statement. Professor Mikhailov, come in. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u32	This is for you. [[Provides material to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I see this debate is beginning to develop in the familiar scenario. The opposition's motives are waiting, then its speeches and finally the final curtsy will come with an attempt to suffocate everything that is said in the Chamber. This is not a debate by nature, colleagues. Please, from now on, if you really want to have a debate, let's keep talking one after the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u35	You're the only one talking!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u36	Yeah, but you don't want to talk, it's the truth. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u37	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u38	I address the Bulgarian doctors who are watching us right now, some of them here are invited to the hall, others are on TV screens with one big excuse that today's debate will not become a rhetoric lesson, but should become a very serious exchange of these. I will now try in several main directions to the Minister, to the Deputy Ministers gentlemen, with some of whom I have known for more than 20 years, to argue. Mr. Minister here on 29 June this year, we have asked you after your heartfelt recognition at the end of last year to prepare a new model reforming healthcare. You yourself stated that the system was sick, that you would present a new model of the system. From what I have already provided it as a solution to Ms. Karayancheva, only two health insurance models have appeared, not management of the funding of the health system. Something that does not comply with the decision of the National Assembly. And what did we get in these models? Many times in this room, both you and your predecessor, General Petrov, we paid attention that funding the system through the model of clinical pathways, which are a great algorithm for work, but an absolutely weak algorithm for evaluating and paying this job, will not work. He is harassing the system and this has been told to you in the most direct way by the representatives of the World Health Organization of this famous round table, which your correct partners are constantly quoting in the media. There they said: The number of hospitals decreased worldwide, in Bulgaria for 10 years with a population down by 1 million has climbed twice over 3 million. The number of hospitals has been increased by almost 100 in the last 10 years. All this says that by not touching the backbone of the system, we will not succeed in its financing, and as much as my esteemed Minister Goranov asking for control of the system, the funding thus of the system is practically sucking exactly a billion and seven hundred million of the public health resources and is not effective. That's why we asked you to show a new model. On the contrary, in both of the models you represent, both of them, and the second one, you put emphasis again on hospital care, and there is nothing to talk about a serious disturbance balance between hospital and hospital care. From then on, the second question is: All thorny tales, honourable Members, in the hall that Bulgaria is in the middle of the insurance of doctors per capita immediately lose their value when we see that the average age of Bulgarian doctors who are in the system is over 52 years old. That is, we are facing a very serious personnel crisis, which could turn into a personnel disaster in just the next 10 years, given that entire courses by medical faculties leave the country after graduation. The second personnel problem is the health care professionals, or as our people well call them and with great respect the nurses. There's a catastrophic problem. You know very well, Mr. Ananiev, in all wards, in all clinics, and Dr. Daritkova, work mostly pensioners. We have become an incubator of healthcare professionals who go to Italy, France, Germany, everywhere, just not to their homeland. If they think they are satisfied, I have spoken with many of them.. not, but here doctors, Bulgarian nurses, have no career development and no decent pay. We asked you, asked you and the Medical Union last year, colleagues from the Medical Union heard me probably now, and we talked about this thing at the meeting with them, to make a detailed assessment of the activities of the medical work, proposed a model of French and German. It's been a year and a half and nothing's happened. On top of that, you are offering new models to fund the system without knowing, Mr. Minister, what we pay in this system, what it costs in this system. You know, and in our private conversations, I have told you that medical devices that are sold on the territory of the country are at a much lower price in other parts of the European Union, and you agree with this thing. But there is no change in that regard. And the last question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u39	Tell her about the conflict of interest!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u40	I'll say it, Professor Ivanov, be calm. This is the issue of drug policy. It is a very difficult issue, a very serious issue for which I will mark only one of its cancers. Of that 4 billion. BGN, which was mentioned to be given out of the pockets of the citizens, almost 3 billion went for medicines, as the reimbursing list...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u41	Reimbursing leaves? GEORGI Mihailov: That's right, the reimbursing list, Dr. Daritkova. Reimbursing leaves in Bulgaria of medicines that are covered 100% is very short. Ask any pensioner how much money out of his outrageously low pension goes for medicines: antihypertensive, anti-regulation, for whatever else. The only ones that are covered 100% are antitumor medications, some in the area of autoimmune diseases and diabetes mellitus. This model, which financially destroys Bulgarian citizens, which is contrary to the WHO definition that citizens should not go out of their pockets more than 20% for health care, because then their health interests are not protected, is an absolutely wrong model. And any mantras that sneak into the public domain that a lot of money is spent on drugs, yes, they are spent, but they are spent out of the pockets of citizens. This is a very serious issue which I allow myself both you and my colleagues to pay attention to. However, by finishing my speech, as I would like to give the opportunity to debate, I would like to address all doctors at the moment and at their holiday to congratulate them once again, to thank them that it is they and their stubbornness that this outrageously constructed system currently exists and it is still helping the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u42	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Dr. Daritkova, come in. [[(Applause, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u43	When there is a meaningful debate, we are involved!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u44	Your colleagues were so pleased to welcome you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u45	I hope to meet expectations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin my speech with a greeting and greeting to all Bulgarian doctors, to my colleagues, who are celebrating their celebration today on the Day of St. Ivan Rila Miraclemaker, heavenly protector of the Bulgarians! [[Applause from GERB.]] I want to wish health and patience with dedication and professionalism to continue to donate health and hope and save lives! I believe that there is a symbol in the fact that today we are debating health problems, and I hope it is on this day that the arguments of those who approach the problems in the sector unselfishly and noblely are actually being heard, because it is very important that we do not use and interpret the problems politically. This is a very useful phrase to recall, which unfortunately, we often forget, that health policies should be made, not health policy! Unfortunately, with the entire procedure of this vote of no confidence, you once again demonstrated how not to seek consent. You have gone to villages and palanquins to present your program with the pretentious title of "Vision for Bulgaria" but obviously you have not heard the people because I come home every week to my constituency and meet the people. They don't expect us to argue and fight all the time. They expect us to reach agreement and find solutions. We have never denied our political responsibility, but you must also assume yours! I believe that in all the arguments and speeches you have made so far, I see an eclectic sum of facts, an inaccurate citation of both years of governance and legal norms. All of this is done with one single goal to prove your arguments. That's not a strong argument! The arguments of the strong must really rest on all the legal decisions and rules, and offer, of course, an alternative! [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll start consistently with your arguments about the vote to try to refute what you claim. In the introduction of the motives for today's vote of mistrust because of failure in the field of health, para. 1 of art. 52 of the Constitution of Bulgaria, claiming that this norm of the Constitution does not allow the imposition of any additional financial conditions. I will quote this article: Art. 52. (1) Citizens shall have the right to health insurance guaranteeing them accessible medical care and to free use of medical care under conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. The law governing these conditions is the Health Insurance Act. I'll take the liberty of quoting al. Art. 2 of art. 52: The health of citizens is financed from the state budget, from employers, from personal and collective insurance contributions and from other sources under conditions and by order laid down by law. Again, it is the law that regulates the terms and conditions, and again it is called the Health Insurance Act. [[Applause from GERB.]] The Minister fulfilled the decision of the National Assembly. He introduced the concept of improving the health insurance model. He hasn't made any legislative changes. And in the discussion about this concept, we strongly invited the Ministry to meet with all interested parties and not selectively like you, only with municipal hospitals. You forgot the district, university and private hospitals. Why didn't you ask them for their opinion? We did not do as you did to meet only the Bulgarian Medical Union. The healthcare system also works with the presence of other thought organizations: Bulgarian pharmaceutical union, Bulgarian dental union, Association of professionals in health care. You forgot them again! [[Applause from GERB.]] The Ministry also met with representatives of the insurance companies. Even colleagues from your parliamentary group attended and spoke to the broad discussion, which was the minister's commitment before presenting the changes to the National Assembly, so that he correctly, accurately and clearly fulfilled these commitments. We now have working groups that really define the problems and places that can create tension in both models. These groups are purely expert. They're not political. They involve all interested parties and they will really propose options for a solution that will enable all Bulgarian citizens to have such health insurance, which is socially acceptable, which guarantees them access to it and which guarantees health security. The Health Insurance Act clearly states what the financing activity is, namely that it is a fundraising activity. There are also options for compulsory health insurance options for which a package of health services is provided. I regret having to remind you of the legislative norms. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a doctor! Perhaps in this sense I should declare a conflict of interest, but, unfortunately, you have very little emphasis on the regulation. If you had come to know each other carefully, perhaps we would have witnessed more legislative and reasonable proposals from you. Unfortunately, they haven't been here in the last few months. It is clear how the Health Insurance Fund is gaining its income. The possibility of additional health insurance is also clear. All of this as texts in the Health Insurance Act has it. From the point of view of your argument that we have a dysfunctional, ineffective health system, you have mainly bet on drug policy. The fact is that we have decentralisation of the pharmaceutical auctions is something that seems problematic to you, only your short political memory makes you forget the moments when cancer patients protested before the Ministry of Health because of a delay in public procurement for delivery of medicines. It is for this purpose that we have made a change in the Law and enabled these medicines to be delivered to medical institutions. This clearly improved the access of Bulgarian patients to oncotherapy and the fact is that for this therapy we have more than 300 million. lv. This year, which really guarantees and proves better access. Regarding the accumulation of a huge number of medical institutions, it turns out that in the period 2010 - 2019 the most revealed new hospital care establishments with permissions issued have been in the period 2013 - 2014. [[Applause from GERB]] by granting permissions to operate 21 private hospitals! At the same time, in 2015, the number was three, in 2016. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man For 2018 we have only three permits for new hospitals! [[(GERB calls: A! Who? Who?]] I would like to emphasise that, with regard to demographic indicators, we also have our statistical successes. They are the result of the active activity of the Bulgarian doctors and still the functioning of the health system. Children's mortality in Bulgaria in 2017 reached its record low level in the statistical history of Bulgaria. It is 6.4 range and this is the lowest really in the history of demographic statistics in Bulgaria. We have a permanent increase in the average life expectancy. These facts are obvious and there is no denying them! [[Noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u46	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u47	I would also like to challenge your claim that there is no clear regulation on what the patient is paying for. Colleagues, once again, you're showing a complete lack of knowledge of the regulations. According to the Bulgarian legislation, all mandatory health-insured persons have free access to medical care. Fact is, three million hospitalizations. We're not proud of them. Access is good, but we need to spend these funds effectively and we really need your alternative, constructive proposals here. It is a fact that we really need to control and develop outpatient medical care by mechanisms, but it is clear in the Regulation on access that Bulgarian citizens pay for what they pay for, so you cannot claim that we have some secret, vague parameters of the medical care that is being obtained. It is clearly fixed in the Regulation on access that it is paid for improved household conditions, for additional service during the patient's stay, for the choice of doctor and team for patients. There is also a clear regulation of the assumptions in which it is not paid, and these are the cases when it comes to accompanying a child up to 7 years of age. It is common hypothesis that medical institutions require additional payment for supplies for various types of medical devices. The services and handlings that are outside the health care package are not financed by the National Health Insurance Fund, but are financed at prices fixed by the medical establishment and anyone who has managed a medical establishment knows clearly that at its entrance they must be scheduled and specified to patients all the mechanisms under which they must pay certain types of medical care. It is clear that the patient, in the regulation, has been set up, must make written statements of his consent to certain types of supplementary payment, so there is also a very precise regulation here, which again, unfortunately, you have missed, perhaps unconsciously. Regarding the wrong drug policy and short reimbursement list, I would stress that in the Positive Drug List applications, in Annex 1, we have 1070 medicinal products, in Annex 2 That doesn't mean short reimbursable leaves! A number of mechanisms have been introduced to improve access in socially significant diseases to such therapy. In 2015, all patients with essential hypertension can receive 100% free treatment with the idea of intervention in this particular category of patients to prevent the complications that occur. We have a significant increase in drug spending, but this is a global trend because medical science is constantly developing. We have introduced a number of mechanisms that will allow this expenditure to really be optimized. The National Council of Prices and Reimbursement was created. Within its commitments, the valuation of medicinal products shall be carried out by referencing with ten countries. These things are probably well known to you, Professor Mihailov, but colleagues do not know them. A Health Technology Assessment Commission has been established, which you have presided over. In this regard, you should know that these are the mechanisms of our market to enter, on the one hand, medicines with the lowest prices, after conducting external referencing with ten main and seven additional countries, and to allow for real consideration of the effectiveness and efficiency of the therapies that enter for the first time in Bulgaria. It is very important to emphasise that in... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u48	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u49	... The annual report on the activities of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products is reported that only for 2017, as a result of an analysis of the change in the reference value, a reduction in the cost of remuneration by the National Health Insurance Fund was assessed as a measure of the savings of public funds for medicinal products amounting to 22 million. 963 thousand. £639. This is evidence of the functioning of these systems. If you offer any more effective mechanisms, we are again available to implement them, but in no case do I think that with a reduction in the VAT of medicines, and suddenly the medical devices appear, we will help the Bulgarian citizens. This is a mechanism for supporting the industries concerned. You have shown lasting empathy for the functioning of the pharmaceutical sector. Now I see a similar attitude to medical devices and those who make them. I would also like to stress the error of the claim that we have a lasting tendency to discriminate against patients on financial grounds. I do not know what statistics are based on the claim that hundreds of thousands of citizens are practically deprived of access to medical care, but every year when we read the reports on the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund, you know how many patients examined by general practitioners, specialists in outpatient care, how many funds spent on research, what studies have also been done on hospitalizations, which has already been repeated here several times, that there are already more than three million. This categorically disproves your claim. I would like to emphasise that as difficult as it is to create better conditions for the functioning of extra-hospital assistance, efforts have also been made in this direction. In order to ease emergency care, in 2012, we gave the opportunity to organise emergency offices so that general practitioners could direct their patients in those hours and have continuity of medical care. This is a step forward and in the mechanisms to provide better working conditions for general practitioners, on the other hand, is a major care for the patient. It is clear that the mechanisms for removing certain activities in outpatient medical care are also looking for a solution to the problems of unloading hospital care. I agree that the valuation mechanisms need to be improved, but in this regard, we expect constructive support from you again. The critical levels of duties of state and municipal medical institutions is also the incorrect declaration. Within this year, we have a 13% reduction in the debt of hospitals, which has been established and which I believe is the result of the effective introduction of uniform standards for the management of public hospitals, made precisely by this ministry's team. With regard to the non-payment by the State of the full amount of the health contribution for children, pensioners and civil servants, the legal history of this rule dates back to 1998. However, the fact is that the full contribution is not paid only for the children, because everything else you claim is not true. For civil servants, the contribution is paid on the basis of their income and for pensioners on the basis of the average of the pension. We have adopted a legislative change in 2015, which ensures that every year 5% increases the value the state pays for its children, so that in this year the rate of payment will reach 65. With regard to inefficient outpatient and emergency medical care, I have spoken about outpatient care, but emergency aid in the years meets serious support from the Ministry of Health. In this regard, I will quote the funds provided, which for 2014 were 122 million, for 2015. "Fourty-fourths for 2016" - 153, and for 2017 .. 162 million. The mechanisms of payment of the activity are indeed changed because they must be bound by what the emergency rooms do and not to pay fixed salaries. There is no effusion of operating from the emergency reception rooms of the hospitals and the emergency system. This claim is again categorically not true. The realization of the two projects in terms of investment in regional infrastructure is a fact. We already have an auction, and realized, to buy ambulances. The tender procedure also started with regard to infrastructure projects. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. they will go to the needs of the emergency services and as a result of the successful implementation of these projects. I think we should be united here again in our efforts to make this happen. Very good opportunities are also provided by the program "P for the treatment of emergency situations" because it is very important and the training of emergency medical personnel is provided and the equipment of the National Centre for Training and Qualification in the Emergency Medical System will be started and training of the staff working in this system will be carried out. With regard to the sharp reduction in the importance of state structures, I was very puzzled by the claim that the unmotivated disclosure of new medical institutions burdened the public with unnecessary costs. According to the Constitution all hospitals in the country as property are equal and if they meet the conditions laid down and the criteria for signing a contract, they are definitely entitled to treat patients and the access of patients is free to all medical institutions in Bulgaria. No prioritization can be given with regard to the treatment of one or another type of medical institution. The state takes care of the structures it supports. State hospitals receive sufficient funds for capital expenditure, depending on the funds that the State budget can allocate. I would like to emphasise that investments in these hospitals in the amount of European projects in the last year to improve access to oncology aid are in the range of 180 million. BGN, according to the successful implementation of the project for medium-term investment framework programme. Regarding the alternative you're proposing. Colleagues, I've read with great anticipation and interest everything you've offered. Unfortunately, in addition to eclectic confusion of notions such as the notion of a golden hour, related to hospital care, and the interesting possibilities for developing the hospital structure with the establishment of social enterprises from hospitals, with the compulsory state definition of basic salaries for state, heavy regulation and for compulsory collectiveisation of medical institutions, other useful alternatives I have not heard. Perhaps it is really important that we value the work of doctors so that we can have adequate pay of the staff and keep them in Bulgaria. That's useful, but again, it's only declarative. You have not stated any financial justification or what mechanism changes will be implemented and which steps are relevant. Unfortunately, this alternative sounds to me like slogans from the well-forgotten old days, for example "Capitalism" the greatest enemy of communism! [[Laughter and excitement in GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would like to stress that such an alternative is not given an alternative to governance, so you will not win the voters. It is really important that today this discussion gives the constructive alternative. You made your own assessment, Professor Mihailov, of the speakers so far. [[Applause from GERB.]] Please, the next, really offer a constructive alternative to changing the health model in order to reach a better health condition and greater health security for citizens, because it is here that we should be united not by our close party interests but by the interest of the citizens of Bulgaria, which we represent. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u50	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? First line, Professor Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u51	Thank you, Madam President. It's almost counter-reporting 20 minutes, Dr. Daritkova. So I won't be able to, in one line of two minutes, try to comment on all of what you said, but just a few things. First, as regards the national and non-partisan importance of the problem,............................................................................................ As early as January, the chairman of our parliamentary group and of our party Mrs Cornelia Ninova, at a press conference here in Parliament, proposed to all political forces to be made, constructed a non-party model. Instead, eight months of work was carried out, figuratively speaking, in the dark and in the ninth month, without even submitting any preliminary documents, even to the participants who were involved in the so-called health insurance models, gathered this round table and saw in the sociological studies what was obtained from it, and the very opinion of the insurers what was about the models that were offered to them. I mean, as far as the overparty is concerned, the one who violated the principle of extra-partyity was a political party GERB. The second question about access. I have heard you several times, colleague Daritkova, talk about easy access in Bulgaria. I came back from Kardzhali the other day. Professor Cherkezov, who is the director of Kardzhali Hospital on the occasion of Mr. Ananiev's proposal to sanction patients who are not regularly subject to a profile checkup, said:........................... not only for geographical reasons..... Bulgaria is a mountain state and we have two and a half million people who are in hard-to-reach areas.... but also for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u52	The weather, Professor Mikhailov. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u54	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u55	Thank you, Madam President. A line to Dr. Daritkova. I listen and I don't believe my ears. It's true that we go to villages and towns, but we never went to palanquins. Changed payment mechanisms. Here they are, you work with millions. Currently accumulated debts: total deficit of the health system, public spending Two hundred and fifty-five million. BGN, including to state and municipal hospitals to providers of.509 million; 123 million NHIF to Bulgarian hospitals; 250 million to foreign hospitals; total expenditure of more than 270 million in the hospital budget of NHIF. You're talking about correct numbers. Here's a correct number. In a report, the World Bank, which was an ideologist of the current institutional system, admits that Bulgaria has become unique in the course of its implementation among industrial societies by the fact that the insured directly pay about 45% of the costs of health care, through payments, fees, natural self-service in hospitals, prices in private institutions, drug prices and so on. In almost all European countries this share is 20%. By the way, Dr. Daritkova, as you mention several times both you and your colleagues, the dark years 2013, do you know who was the state financial advisor to the then prime minister, or do you not know? He is located in this room and is called Mr. Kiril Ananiev. Turn to him and accuse him of exactly that.. how he advised the Prime Minister to achieve such bad results. In this regard, I would like to tell you that the attitude of the You know... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u56	The weather, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u57	Sorry, I'm done. ...that there are two letters from Autumn, Germany and Vienna, Austria that firmly state that they will not accept our patients?! Did you know that Turkish transplanters have come here in the last few days to study the conditions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u58	Mr. Velkov, let's be honest, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u59	You know that we cannot be members of the European Transplant and that these people are doomed to doom. So please, please, be exact when quoting the figures. Here, I showed you huge debts, outstanding payment. By the way, let me out of this... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u60	No, I can't allow it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Velkov, it's been two minutes. If you want a statement, I'll give you a statement, Mr. Velkov. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Let's be honest. [[Noise and lines from GERB and from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Velkov, that's a line. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Make a statement and I'll give you the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Stop the group's time. I'll give you 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u61	To declare a conflict of interest. Is he currently receiving a reward from the Military Medical Academy? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u62	Should I answer it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u63	Yeah, as a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u64	I answer to you immediately, Associate Professor Ivanov, and I swear to God and to the government here that I am currently not receiving remuneration from the Military Medical Academy. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] No, don't laugh, or I'll sue you. I don't get a reward from the Military Medical Academy. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There, I told you. Check with Professor Mutafchiyski. If I do, I'll give this reward to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Third line, come in, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear MPs from GERB, in particular I wish to address Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u67	To me is the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u68	The line to Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u69	Please, you haven't explained well enough to Dr. Daritkova that there is one great guilt that she brings in all these years. Mrs. Daritkova, you wear it because if we have a first year term as MPs, your years are much more. Where is your guilt, along with everyone else? It is in this: you left, and continue this, the health system to manage itself, and everyone in it to save themselves. That's why we've come this far to failure! Examples of many. Only hospitals in Lovech and Vratsa are enough. You have abandoned everyone in this system, without exception, or the exception is only for some. You don't have time, and we don't have time around you, the authorities, Mr. Tsvetanov and Dr. Daritkova, we don't have time either. What do we need to do? What you have not done is urgently to prepare our health system for market work, under clear rules of restructuring and interaction of individual structures, in full protection of our national security in the sector of the patient, of the citizen, of the medical workers, Dr. Daritkova, which you have forgotten. Emergency model change! And you're not suggesting anything, unfortunately. We're tired of talking! We don't want your fairy tales and burying your head in the sand, and digging, regulations, laws. How long do we wait? Time's running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u70	Personal explanation Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've really never demonstrated that I'm not ready for penance. I want us all to empathize with this repentance, because even if you are a new MP, your political power is in the government, as you have heard, for years. If we really want to reach solutions, we must seek agreement. As hard as I try, I may be somewhat prejudiced, but I do not notice Mrs Ninova's desire for dialogue. On the contrary, I see only the desire for opposition and all your actions confirm it. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Even when you claim that you want to fight the parallel drug trade, you did not support the legislative proposals here, but voted against. This is the case, the words can be different. Only in cases they know people, and they choose us for what we do. We have shown that we are looking for good solutions and what was quoted as facts by Mr. Velkov is in support of the thesis that we should look for improvement of the health insurance model because it is a fact that the Bulgarians pay a large percentage of services in the health care system out of their pocket. It is a fact that we have a sufficiently serious regulatory framework, and I have tried to point it out to you, and that the decisions must go through precisely legislative proposals. We are ready to support them and we have supported them. I wanted to start my speech today, but now I will finish it with the good story. The good story is what we did yesterday with Mr. Kutev when we took part in the opening of a fountain dedicated to donation initiative that would enable society to really realise the need to activate its contribution to the donor programme. These are the good examples. Colleagues, if you really believe that healthcare needs a positive change, let us unite in the interests of the health of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u72	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Dr. Jaffer, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers! The no-confidence vote is an opportunity for the opposition to express its attitude, its disagreement with a sector, causing debate, however disliked by the government. Today, we are talking about a system with a headquarters of almost Ken Kissy, almost like a flight over a cuckoo's nest. Clearly, we will be talking about humility, repentance, but will we be talking about the outcome of this situation? We will support this vote not because of the unrealized presented models that are yet to be commented. We're going to support him because of the timelessness in health care, because of the overall health situation. We will support this vote because of what has not happened so far because of the unstoppable breakdown of trust by patients and doctors, medical professionals. And when there is such a breakdown of trust, things are disastrous to any system. We will support this vote because of the indicators that relentlessly put us in the most unprestigious places. And as we talk here about how there is some movement on them, Bulgaria has the highest mortality rate in the European Union; Bulgaria has the highest mortality rate in cardiovascular diseases; Bulgaria has the lowest life expectancy; Bulgaria has lasting above the average European mortality rates. We will support this vote and because of the bankruptcy of the medical institutions, the districts follow. This bankruptcy will lead two thirds of the country's territory to the people living on these two thirds to have increasingly difficult access to health care, and to concentrate health care in just a few major cities in our country. We will support the vote because our health care is post-factum health because it goes after events because today we solve the problem of people on haemodialysis, the problem of people waiting for lung, kidney and other transplantation. We'll probably solve the forensics problem. For how long? Tomorrow will be the people with thalassemia, with other diseases. We will also support the vote because Bulgaria today has a commissioner for digitalisation, but there is no most basic integrated information system, there is no eHealth. Now, that's something that there's an agreement that there's no question about. You have to answer why this is not happening. Once again, there is much talk of a non-partisan consensus. I just remind you that for ten years, in our election platforms, we have come to the conclusion that sectors such as healthcare must have a non-partisan consensus. Initially, however, there is something wrong with your understanding of how to achieve this consensus. That is why we think it is extremely disturbing and hypocritical of your behaviour to seek this consensus. I just want to remind you how we achieved the "consensus', for example, with regard to the moratorium on innovative medicines. You don't have the courage to see or see, but you don't have the courage to name the real representatives of the status quo, which you say you will fight to reach consensus. Minister, you said that the status quo and the people who will oppose your reform are the opposition and some associations such as the Society of Municipal Hospitals. How are you going to look for this extra party consensus you've been talking about so much? Do you remember how you reached that consensus I mentioned? Six times you voted against the decision to drop the moratorium on innovative medicines, the seventh time, after a decree by the Prime Minister, you voted for That is why we believe that your understanding is initially wrong about how this consensus should be sought [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS]] Who you're talking about as some kind of mantra that's gonna solve the problems now. We believe that with false dialogue, false heroes in cases that cause media, public scandals, there will be no way out. You show a permanent inability to perform systematic analysis and offer working models and solutions in the sector. In fact, the release of Glinka Komitov, Nikolay Petrov, the choice and release of Plotchev, especially the drastic gap for the 7 or 240 million outstanding at foreign hospitals, were also wonderful reasons for a vote of no confidence. And not the opposition, not even the status quo, but you, GERB, the rulers created these problems and scandals, these kind of no-confidence votes. The fact is that the DPS suggested that the first vote of no confidence be for health care. GERB has been ruling for almost ten years. Enough time to correct the problems, to see them, to correct the deficits and defects if you have seen them. The endless scandals, including personnel, have exhausted time, energy, resource and credit of trust, including the current cabinet. Centralization, administration, limitation have acquired unprecedented, absurd dimensions that are the emblem of this otherwise right-wing government. You've wasted too much time because of delusions and mistakes. Some you've made because of incompetence and ignorance, but others have been deliberate, criminal. This is about those billion and three hundred million that you have to return to the Bulgarian citizens who gave them to health and reform because you are not telling where this money will come from now, possibly for a reform you are discussing. You are drowning in a scandal between yourselves produced by yourself, but also authentic, genuine, which you cannot overcome. There is no prospect of political support, there remains the doubt that your next proposals are testing society and the environment. And that's the problem. Legal bankruptcy of procedures and continuous adjustment of the conditions for elementary auctions and orders actually prevents you from achieving the start of both e-health and everything else. The vicious legislation on important issues, relationships in the system through Transitional and Final Provisions, as you believe now to change seven laws through these transitional provisions, in the Budget Act, are the tip of the iceberg of confused and inconsistent ideas for change, as well as the escape from responsibility, including support from the highest political level. All this makes the environment uncertain, unpredictable, inappropriate for reform, extremely unhealthy in the literal and transmission sense. That is why we will support this no-confidence vote tabled by BSP colleagues because we believe that you are unable to take steps to change this system, which we all say is wicked and must be changed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u74	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, dear Mr. Popovski, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers, Dear Mr. Ananiev! Firstly, the group of the United patriots will not support the vote, naturally, because we believe that this vote is not timely, otherwise the sector's health policy deserves such a serious debate right at the time when we are discussing the two new health insurance models, or we can stop at some third, as the minister said, who is reasonable, normal, adapted to the situation in Bulgaria at the moment, along with the expert opinion of the opposition. Several facts that the opposition points to in the motives that are really important. In Bulgaria, there are a huge number of hospitals already over 365 hospitals. This means that 20 thousand people in Bulgaria are entitled to one hospital. For reference, the Netherlands, which is a 10-million-dollar state, has 100 hospitals, i.e. 100 thousand people have one well-equipped hospital. We know that we also have hospitals in small municipalities, which are under 10,000 people who neither have serious potential to treat nor have personnel for various reasons from the declining population, from the migration of medical staff. Over 3 million hospitalizations. This is also a very important figure that has led to the situation at the moment. This system started in 2000, when Bulgaria was 8 million and when there were a million hospitalizations that were real, because then the number of hospitalizations was not stated, as is currently happening. Today, 7 million Bulgaria has over 3 million hospitalizations, which shows that at least 2 million are redundant. In other words, these 2 million people are not that they are not sick, but they can be served in hospital care, where a patient can be examined, diagnosed and given treatment by the specialist concerned, and cost the Health Insurance Fund BGN 30, 40 or 50. together with the research, not 500 BGN, as for example an average price of the path. That is, we have too much liberalism here, which has led to the draining of the finances of the Health Insurance Fund for this reason. Just reminding: an 8 percent health contribution is not a big or small one. This is the health contribution in Bulgaria. A Europe that we are seeking has higher contributions. Britain has a 12-percent contribution, Germany. So they accumulate a resource very different from ours, and that's why there's practically nothing there, including medicines from pharmacies being reimbursed almost 90%, somewhere and a hundred. The unfunded clinical pathways are a serious problem. It also depends on the large number of hospitalizations because you cannot pay three million clinical pathways of the year with less than two billion budget of hospital healthcare. That's the truth. Less than 50% of the NHIF's budget is for hospital healthcare. We have spoken with Minister Ananiev and in a private conversation that we must respect the ratios that are in Western Europe, precisely for this reason. The budget of the medicines is heavily refinanced, contrary to hospital budgets. According to the opinion of the fiscal reserve, 15 to 18% of the Cashier's budget should be for medicines. We currently have between 25 and 30% of the NHIF's drug budget and a few billion more separately, which citizens pay out of their drug pocket at the pharmacy. It's another problem. There are about one third of them about 330 million out of this billion of the NHIF's budget. There the specialized authorities have captured the first organized criminal group to drain this serious fund of 330 million, planned and at least another 100 million unforeseen by the end of the year into spending. There's between eight and ten million every month. The current funding model has led to the bankruptcy of Vratsa and Lovech. Vratsa and Lovech are an obvious example of something else. There ten years ago, private invasive cardiologists entered the courtyard of state hospitals. Not only there, and in other major district cities of Bulgaria private invasive cardiologists entered the courtyard of state hospitals. Right in Stanishev's government. A total hospital debt of over 500 million. Indeed, this is a startling figure, which Slavcho Velkov quoted earlier, but some things that have already been done by the new government I will quote in a moment, they are in opposition to this heavy dramatic picture. First, the government of GERB and the current "United Patriarchs" "When voting on the budget for 2018 there is an unprecedented increase in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund of 405 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u76	Four hundred and seven.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u77	Four hundred and seven, Dr. Ademov fixed me. That's a 15% increase at a time. From this increase 90 percent went to hospitals, where really is the worst financial shortage and dramatism, which is commendable. The National Health Card has been accepted by this government. This will reduce the opening of new hospitals and the oversaturation of the health care system. Thirdly, a reduction in uninsured persons. At the start of this government they were about a million, now it's 720 thousand to date, which means they're 28% off. If this is how we walk, there must be no one insecure for each year until the end of the term of office. In close perspective, what is expected as a proposal from Minister Ananiev's composition? Introduction of the Electronic Health Card, introduction of an electronic recipe, proposal for a new health insurance model that is already underway. It is a position to which some of the opposition colleagues have aspirations. It is for the total demonization of the cassata and is currently practically impossible. It's a very heavy turn in the system all of a sudden. Plus, only the National Health Fund has personnel who can control the activities of hospitals and documentation. If we suddenly demonopolitize the Cassata, where would the competitors get such footage? It's going to be okay. Minister Ananiev's request is much more adapted to the situation at the moment for several reasons. First, a very small co-financing by the patient, and in the cheap trails to BGN 700, will result in a sharp reduction in the number of hospitalizations... perhaps from three million to two or one, which is the real one, as I said at the beginning of the exhibition. A lot of funds will be released from here so that the price of clinical pathways can really be valued one, and, secondly, there is a resource to small hospitals for which a clinical path for healing can be introduced, both being burdened as hospitals and not shutting down small municipal hospitals, and why should they work in the entire vertical of the system?! As I said in the beginning, we will not support the vote of no confidence. From now on, I wish Minister Ananiev success because he has seen where the pain of the system is and with real levers there is a way to change many things in a good direction. Good luck to him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u78	Thank you, dear Doctor Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! In the developing arithmetic majority, but not valueably, notice, the purpose of this vote is to provoke a discussion so that we can give the government any adjustments to the policies they propose and conduct. I do not intend to dwell on the motives, but I just want to say one thing: the reasons are written perhaps in the style of.. As if I had written them as if I had written them by closing them........................ as if another had read......................................... Again, I do not intend to dwell on motives, but I want to say something that I think is very important. Colleagues, yesterday when we adopted the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy, you missed the opportunity to add to the subjects of the social economy the social enterprises you are talking about in your motives. So much for the motives, because we have stated that we will support this vote with different motives than those of the importers. Dear colleagues, it is clear to everyone that the problems of the system are not from today, not from yesterday. The problems have long been defined, the point is that at the moment the government is asking a nebular silhouette of reform with dominance of financial indicators and parameters. And we are convinced that only by financial additional means can we not solve the severe pressing structural problems in the system. I want to distract a mantra that has been going on in recent years that the problems of this system can be solved with financial resources. What you've been doing all nine years of your management and bragging about it is increasing your financial resources by $300 million. However, honourable Members, you are not talking about control, you are not talking about the effective use of this financial resource. Here are two examples in support of the fact that the funds are not spent effectively to achieve health objectives. In 2000, when the health reform started, the funds in the sector were a billion and 200 million. Then the total mortality in Bulgaria was 14 per cent. Now that the funds have been increased almost four times, the total mortality rate is 15.4%. This is a visual indicator that in this system, no matter how much financial resources we pour, we can't solve without dealing with structural problems. In conclusion, because we don't have much time. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have the self-esteem to state and propose a new policy, a new matrix different from the current, new approach and new solutions. First of all, a demonopolitanization. We want to put the National Health Insurance Fund in competition with the other funding bodies. We want medical institutions to have the opportunity to compete with each other for both financial resources and patients. Next, we want free access to healthcare facilities without limit; we want real value of services and the work of doctors; we want relationships based on demand and supply; we want alternative competing sources of funding; we want with the financial resources available to the system to achieve the indicators that are set out in the National Health Strategy. Your right and responsibility is to listen or not to our recommendations. The sense of self-sufficientness and the only factor in this system has always played a bad joke on all the rulers. That is why we want to seek consensus, but not in the way you propose it. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u80	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u81	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Replies to Dr. Ademov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u82	Dear Mr. Ademov, I am paying attention to the statements from your group. I don't understand, you're going to support a no-confidence vote that's being tabled for asking for a demoralization of the Health Insurance Fund because you want a demoralization of the Health Insurance Fund?! From this greater ecclecticism, tell him health. You will support this vote, which speaks of vices in the system, as one of the main vices of the system is, of course, the multitude of hospitals, and you are talking about a new model. I'd like to ask you "You are one of the most long-standing MPs, members of the Health Commission: how many new hospitals have been registered in your two management mandates? These are my two questions to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Ademov, in a large part of your speech I think it is really being sought and we can find a broad out-of-party consensus in health care. With just one main counterpoint, I want to go out in your speech as a financier. I want to use numbers and numbers exactly. I would like to ask you not to talk about ten years of management of GERB, but to talk about facts - seven years of management of GERB. Seven years, as they say, the first seven years have passed, so expect more. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, come in for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, the problem is not the number of hospitals at all. When a patient is entitled to free movement, to free choice, the problem is not at all the number of hospitals. The problem is not from this management, it is not from previous managements, the problem is from many years back in time, because all registered hospitals must enter into a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. This is one of the fundamental problems. Next, if the patient is to be treated in one medical facility or another, we should be aware that he should receive quality medical care. The patient should choose the medical facilities where quality medical care is offered. And whether our, Vash or any other Minister is Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, whoever he is, however he is said to have allowed the disclosure of the medical institutions, this is not a matter for the MPs, because the executive in the face of the Minister of Health is authorised to grant license, permits for the opening of medical institutions and not just for this, but for the extension of activities in the already revealed medical institutions. As for Mr. Ivanov's line. Mr. Ivanov, thank you for agreeing with the motives we present...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u87	Partly...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u88	...but we never said we were giving up the model of demonopleization. That's our understanding all these years. We have proposed it as a bill, we are the authors of one of the laws for demonopolising the National Health Insurance Fund and we say that we are already very late with this demonopolist because it is able to offer a competitive model, not a model of centralized government. That is why we have different motives from our colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u89	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. We continue with the speeches. Colleagues, please come in. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A brief chronology to move on to today's debate and the motives that we will disprove. The 1990s Eastern European countries changed their health insurance models. Bulgaria transforms the health system from the model "Semashko" which was with state public funding into a system of compulsory health insurance. The beginning of health reform put the Health Insurance Act in 1998. With the Health Insurance Act was established the institution National Health Insurance Fund, which started functioning on 15 March 1999. The Casa was established as a self-managing independent public institution whose budget is separate from the state. The main objective of the National Health Insurance Fund is to ensure and ensure free and equal access of insured persons to medical care. How is the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund formed? As Dr. Daritkova called you, colleagues from BSP, please read the Health Insurance Act. Health insurance contributions and health insurance transfers are the two main forms that form the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Health insurance contributions shall be paid by all employees, including the administration to which the State is the employer. We are talking about the transfers for health insurance. We are talking about the transfers made by the state for the provision of pensioners, unemployed, children up to 18 years old, students, PhD students and the socially weak, now I will disprove the mantra of BSP, which has put into its motives, used repeatedly and in public statements that the government is a major debtor of the health insurance system and pays on 19 BGN. Child insurance and BGN 22 for a pensioner. Colleagues, I have taken the data from 2012 to 2018, and I will focus on the last three years to make it easier for you if you want to do it together later. Twenty-five BGN, pensioner's insurance; BGN 26 seven BGN. " 2018" of a pensioner. These are the same years - BGN 20, BGN 22 And BGN 26. for a child. Please, when you write your motives, or when someone helps you write them, to be based on real facts, numbers and figures, because it is good to work, especially in the Bulgarian Parliament, with such accurate facts. Let's say how the health money grew from 2009 to 2018. Two thousand and nine years. 634 million. BGN, until the smooth rise in 2018 to 4.7 billion. Because some of the previous speakers mentioned, just to say after the successful administration in quotes of the cabinet Oresharski, when GERB came and took over the mandate the next government of Borisov 2, an urgent transfer to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund was imposed because of the deficit, which was of about 400 million. lv. If you had the good management decisions and models then, you should have introduced them, not have to save the health insurance model then with the coming of Borisov's second government. Since your mantra is indeed deeply false that the government is a major debtor of the health insurance system, I invite you to read in the Health Insurance Act art. 40, which says: "For the persons under para. 3 These are the children, PhD students, students and socially weak contribution to be paid in the amount determined by the National Health Insurance Fund budget law for the year concerned, over 55 per cent of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons from 1 January 2016, each year increasing by 5 per cent until the minimum insurance income for persons is reached. That's what I'm done with. If any of you fellow Members wish to challenge the figures, please come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ivanov, with these figures that you read, you admitted to everyone that the government is really not a correct paying agent. From 88 BGN needed for a pensioner, you read that the government imports 25 BGN. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] About the fact that both you and many of the negotiators are trying to bring BSP into the topic as the main culprit in the transition for the state of the system and because you said what happened when GERB came to power 2009. Two thousand and nine years, when GERB came to power, you diverted from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund a billion and a half leva, which to this day, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, have not been returned. At the same time, the National Health Insurance Fund owes money to foreign people because of which we are denied treatment of Bulgarian patients in foreign countries of the European Union. I would like to ask: is it true, Mr. Ivanov, because we are also talking about consensus that more than 20 municipal hospitals were closed during your government? If we have a consensus on the topic that there are areas in Bulgaria that are left without health care, why not support our proposal that municipal hospitals, which are in serious condition at the moment, until the new Health Card is passed, should be put on a ban list of privatizations so that we do not leave more settlements in Bulgaria without health care? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I would like to ask each and every one of us here: is it true that patients call each and every day and seek assistance for a meeting with a specialist, a doctor, through us, through the MPs, ministers, the people dressed in power?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u93	The weather, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u94	And if so, please bow your head and resign. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Ibrishimov, I am really surprised by the deep non-arithmetic thinking that your parliamentary group has. The average monthly contribution that you quoted is from working people - it is BGN 88 and not from pensioners. For the pensioners, I told you to read the Health Insurance Act, which says it's 8%. These 8% I have read to you how much they have been paid and what the contribution is. You say it's BGN 22 and I tell you it's BGN 26. You're not right! Let's sit together and look at things. There is no such decision of the Constitutional Court, Ibrishimov, for the other thing you said. You're abusing facts and circumstances again. There's no such solution! Quote it and show it. The third thing I want to answer to you about municipal hospitals. The government doesn't shut down municipal hospitals. Municipal hospitals are owned by municipalities. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria. (Laughter.)]] The decisions are made by the municipal councils. Colleagues, get acquainted with the Law and decisions. There are municipal councilors from you that and many mayors, chiefs of hospitals. There are such among you, so speak prepared and with facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Do you have a say in this, colleagues? Here you go, Dr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u98	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Health is perhaps one of the most unreformed sectors that urgently needs reforms. Unfortunately, reforms are also needed in other sectoral policies, but we never see reforms in these sectoral policies. The reforms are very late. That is why we are responsible all, but mostly the government, and the government since 2009, with a little interruption, are GERB, and now GERB in coalition with the so-called Patriots. The DPS stands in the position that health reforms cannot be carried out without a non-partisan consensus, but the main responsibility for reforms in the current term, as the Forty-fourth National Assembly, is the responsibility of the government. We are for a non-party consensus on any constructive proposals that would improve the functioning of the health care system. It is also very important that the government ensure the necessary majority and support for these reforms and not leave the minister alone, because this will by no means be successful realization. The DPS has always been, as has the previous colleagues from our parliamentary group said, about demonopolising the National Health Insurance Fund. I respond to my colleagues and Mr. Veselinov, who said that we have received an announcement for the launch of a demonization of the Casa, but there is no detailed development. It is an honor to Minister Ananiev that he offers the two models - especially the first model for demonopolism, but it is also expected discussion, dialogue, debates to see the final model. Let's see the final model. It will be supported by us because we are convinced that this will be a successful model, in view of the competitive environment that would be created and in view of the effective spending of the funds and achieving the relevant objectives in the healthcare system. Directors of nationally important hospitals shared and supported the idea of demonopolising the Casa, as it is the competition that is relied on to improve the control and quality of medical care. Dr. Ademov pointed out that the funds have increased many times, but unfortunately, in these years we do not see an improvement in the functioning of the healthcare system. The fact is, unfortunately, on the Day of the Bulgarian doctor with whom I would like to congratulate them that neither the medical staff is satisfied nor the patients who benefit from healthcare are satisfied. I would also like to draw attention to what directors of nationally important hospitals have also said. They expressed very serious concern that the reform is leaving without accurate evaluation of medical activities and the work of medical staff. They said that it is absolutely necessary that we share this position before starting any reform, to value medical work, medical activities and many of the clinical pathways be revalued because some of them are overfunded and others are underfunded. The first step for reform in the right direction is optimization of the clinical pathways, but this is a long-term reform. In drug reform, the change may take place in a shorter period of time. The next thing that is needed as a reform and which is already taking place in many countries, including those with the highest standard and with the best healthcare, is price transparency. Transparency of hospital aid prices is key. Then the patient himself will choose where in view of the objectives and quality that he wants to achieve, to choose the appropriate medical establishment. At the present stage, this is, unfortunately, not the case in our country. The next thing we need to pay attention to and monitor as a very important component of the reform is e-health and the National Electronic Information System. The base on which the demonopolization of the casata should take place and any reform. As a motive for the proposed two models, it was pointed out that the dialogue must be improved. It is good to see, as I said earlier, exactly how the discussion about both models will develop. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For the second model we have our serious concerns because it will largely repeat the current model.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u99	The weather, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u100	I'm done, Madam President. The next thing we need to pay attention to is that the medicines in our country are the most expensive and the highest percentage that is allocated to the health care system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what I'm done with, Madam President. Attention should be paid to the imbalance, as Dr Popovski pointed out, between hospital and hospital care. Let us hope that in the budget for next year this disproportion will start to balance in order to achieve the respective objectives. Let us hope that we will all, together with consensus, achieve a better functioning healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u101	Colleagues, I will request a procedure to extend the time until the debate on the vote is over. Please vote regime. Voted 122 MPs: 117 against 2, abstention 3 The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u102	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u103	Of course, I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u104	Madam President, our group has supported your proposal to extend the debate because we believe it is important. My procedure is to invite the Minister of Health, who has the right to take the floor at any time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u105	Whenever he wants to!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u106	Whenever he wants to!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u107	...take part in the debate now so that the groups who are in parliament can also take part in their remaining time to take account of what he says. I am sure that this will respond much more to the democratic procedure, which is a debate in the National Assembly, instead of us spending our time and he will then speak without having the opportunity to take attitude. Such an approach will show that we all take different opinions and concepts of health seriously here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. As you know, under art. 65 the minister can take the floor whenever he wants, so he knows. Are there any lines to Dr. Chakarov's statement? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Borislav Borisov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I would like to take account of the so-defined point in the motives of the vote entitled "Wrong drug policy'. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing drug spending in Bulgaria. This is not only a national trend, but is also observed in a large part of the developed countries the share of these costs relative to the total amount of public health expenditure is also increasing. The reasons for this are mainly the following. On the one hand, demographics, which are expressed in ageing population, which leads to an increase in health care needs and a significant increase in the use of medicinal products; life expectancy is also increasing, which is wonderful; savings that show a low increase in public health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product. On the other hand, social and behavioral, which are expressed in increasing patient awareness and their desire to seek and use the best medicines. The drug market is one of the most actively regulated sectors of the health system in each country. They refer to the market defects that occur, on the one hand, and the need to combine the interests of patients, funding institutions and pharmaceutical production on the other. The reimbursable leaves are extremely short. Currently, over 2,700 medicinal products from all treatment groups covering the entire range of drug therapy are included in the positive drug list. A procedure has been introduced for periodic maintenance of the reimbursing status of medicinal products in the positive drug list by performing a periodic evaluation of the positive drug list based on evidence of effectiveness, therapeutic effectiveness, safety and analysis of pharmaco-economic indicators. The procedures and management mechanisms of the pricing and reimbursement system shall ensure that the addition of new medicines to the positive drug list is based on the assessment of cost effectiveness, the assessment of budgetary impact and the specific examination of the necessary conditions for economically appropriate prescription. This measure is implemented through the amendment of art. 262, para. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, on the basis of which Regulation No 9 on the terms and conditions for the assessment of health technologies is adopted and in force. A mechanism for negotiating concessions for inclusion of medicinal products in the positive drug list for medicinal products has been introduced. The National Health Insurance Fund has introduced a centralised negotiation of concessions for medicinal products with a view to reducing public expenditure allocated to medicines. There are no clear criteria for spending funds in expensive drug therapies. The National Health Insurance Fund, together with external experts, shall develop the requirements of the National Health Insurance Fund in treatment with certain expensive medicinal products, products in outpatient care for which it allocates a significant resource. These requirements are validated by the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund after a decision of the Supervisory Board and prior coordination with the Bulgarian Medical Union. The requirements are mandatory for medical performers. They describe the medical criteria for the conduct of drug therapy, fully consistent with the established short-term characteristics of medicinal products, the procedure for validating and issuing protocols, the therapeutic diagnostic algorithm, a list of criteria for the issuance of protocols, necessary medical-diagnostic tests and reference values for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment, and others. Deficit of medicinal products on the pharmacological market, subject to... the lack of certain medicinal products on the market is a fact. The reasons are different and one of them is the so-called re-export. For the Bulgarian market prices are negotiated, which are sometimes at times lower than prices in other countries of the Community and this is a prerequisite for re-export. The problem has existed for years by deepening. The legal changes to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which we adopted only a month ago, must limit the re-export and ensure the availability in the pharmacies network of vital medicinal products. With the legal changes adopted, there will finally be a limitation of parallel exports of products from the positive drug list. In conclusion, I would like to say that our pharmaceutical market is secured by sufficient medicinal products from different therapeutic areas and they can satisfy the health needs of Bulgarian citizens from drug therapy, including the latest modern target molecules, while protecting the public interest in spending a financial public resource separate for drug therapy in the treatment of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u110	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Replies to Mr. Borisov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Colleagues, I will read a message, if you allow me today, on 19 October 2018, has been received and will be sent to the MPs A general draft of the bills for amendment and supplement to the Religions Act adopted at the first vote on 11 October 2018. The project was prepared by the Commission on Religions and Human Rights on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I am not pleased with the debate that is taking place in this House. [[Voices from GERB "Eee! "]] The debate is about the following thing, and I want to tell you what it is about. We all agree that the health situation is difficult. Two ministers told us, no matter what power they were from, that it was catastrophic, we needed a new model and we were offered a way out. What are these exits? The first exit is a radical exit of the state from the health care system and a radical entry into the market of private health insurance. It's anti-constitutional, and this is not the time to debate it right now. Is this the way for the country to come out with its control and regulation capabilities, and to rely on the private interest to regulate the needs and quality of healthcare that every Bulgarian citizen needs? We cannot categorically agree. Secondly, there's a hole in health care. 860 million. Let's pour it and we'll solve the problems. We have no statistics, no health information system, no real evaluation of medical activities. How did we determine that these 860 million will solve the problems of Bulgarian healthcare? We would like to receive an answer: why should they be removed from the pocket of the Bulgarian citizen and sink into the depths of the health system? Why? This is the answer because these pockets are broken and there is nothing to remove in them anymore, and because we are not sure that the Bulgarian citizen will receive more affordable and quality health care, but this is offered to us. We can't agree to that. People tell us: do not agree, you will isolate us from the healthcare system in the Republic of Bulgaria. We therefore believe that this government's capacity in terms of health is running out. It should go away and we should start a real debate to meet people's expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u112	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Replies to Professor Yordanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u113	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I barely learned the reasons for the vote, because I have a bias towards prevention, and it turned out that this word exists in one single place, in one sentence, which states: "Missing of individual and mass prevention and dispanserization. " This is one of the firm findings of colleagues. I'm going to tranquility! According to the importers, it can be considered as a clear finding and, in practice, what is written and which you believe concerns the system is an unprofessional and non-serious statement, shows a misunderstanding of matter or a miscalculation of prevention as one of the main directions in public health. Makes sense, guys. Prevention for you is not attractive because it does not give reasons for protests, no dying patients, saved lives and grateful patients, the effect is reported after years, and after many years, after years of life. There's no money there. In fact, she has money. She uses public resources, but does not produce. It is no secret to anyone that money is sometimes too good a motive for both protests and votes and what happens sometimes in our room, unfortunately. After all, you called for a debate and for it to be constructive. I am debating with this single sentence, and I cannot help but remind you of the successful immunoprophylaxis policy. The immunization calendar is so simple for information, it was last updated in Boyko Borisov's first government by those controversial 10 or 7 years in which he manages GERB. We will continue to argue with colleagues that the effect of immunization is enormous. We will continue to mention the fact that there is no measles disease in Bulgaria against the background of good health protection in the countries in Europe and around us. We will continue to claim all of this, and with the clear self-awareness that it is true. Since we are talking about immunizations, we cannot fail to note, colleagues, and not remind you of what GERB has done to introduce immunization against cervical cancer - also merit, accidentally, GERB! I'm not gonna tell you how many women die, how many people get infected. You all know this, if you don't know it, open the programs on the Ministry website, read them and remember what's going on and who's doing it?! I will not dwell on the details of the program because there is no time, but you are saying that there are socially significant diseases. There is another program and it is implemented very successfully. This is the National Programme for the Improvement of Mother and Child Health. In addition to raising the level of awareness of pregnant couples, children and parents on different aspects of reproductive health, there is also a specific revelation of centers in all district hospitals. There are screening programs in place that are very effective and useful in pregnant and children, carrying out neonatal auditory screening, screening for reptinopathy in premature children, renewal of equipment for diagnosis of genetic diseases at a total value of 128,5 million. lv. There is a National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases where are all socially significant diseases with real steps for their early diagnosis, breast cancer, cervical cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer. Requirements have been introduced, methods of intervention have been established and all levels of health care are involved with this prevention, for which we should thank our colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are present at the third vote, which is asked by the opposition in the face of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. This is their only systematic approach to political messages, which they have declared in recent years, but have never given an alternative or solution to the questions raised that excite all Bulgarian citizens. What a political party GERB and today's coalition government does is solve problems. I would like to recall a decision that we made in the Bulgarian Parliament on 29 July 2018, and all MPs with this decision obliged the Ministry of Health to provide models for the reform of health care. The deadline is September 30th. We can only congratulate Minister Kiril Ananiev for meeting this deadline and starting the so-called discussion with all interested parties. It was not serious to claim that there was no dialogue either with the Doctor's Union or with all hospitals or with patient organizations, because there were representatives from the BSP who participated in the public discussions organised by the Ministry of Health. Dear colleagues from BSP, the only thing that was meaningful in today's debate was Professor Mihailov, who said that before him there was nothing meaningful that was said. These were the reasons presented by your President. Thank you, Professor Mikhailov! [[Applause from GERB.]] But I would like to thank Dr. Daritkova, who had set a constructive tone for behavior in today's debate. You have seen that the parliamentary group of GERB immediately started to actively participate with its experts, with the people who really know the problems in detail, and the ways in which we need to solve them together. What is extremely important is the topic of health protection and it is not of any political power. The topic of health protection is a topic in which we should all actively participate, as participants in the forty-fourth parliament, and as people we must support any good proposal proposed by the Ministry of Health after the end of public discussions. We thank our colleagues from BSP that for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism they tabled a vote of mistrust for intent. At the moment, I think Minister Ananiev will make a speech shortly so that he can actually say that dialogue is being sought, that this discussion is still ongoing and that we do not yet have a decision of the Council of Ministers on health insurance models to be submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament so that we can start the relevant debate. Colleagues on the left, thank you for being at work today and participating in this debate, because this is where we should solve the problems, not where you can say whatever you want, but no one can take responsibility for you, and precisely in Parliament, Bulgarian voters can understand what you do and how you stand for it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Wait until the procedure is completed, and I'll give you a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you have obviously misunderstood, and your speech has made it clear what this is all about today. Today we are talking about a clash of two approaches to health care - your and the chain of commerce - Hippocrates, dealing with the goods - and the profit that it must make against our system of health institutions, which ensure care for the health of people. This you do not understand, and until you understand it, so you will continue and because this is how you will continue, this is your end and soon you will become a bad memory of the rule of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, today you have offended all Bulgarian doctors with this statement and with the way you did it. As for who goes, I think the elections are the democratic way in which Bulgarian citizens give their vote. I have known your messages all these years since it was established and actively participated in the political life of the country Political Party GERB. So far your messages and your proposals have not found support from society because they know that you cannot be an alternative. For all your years of government that you've been talking about for 10 years, but let's say it was seven, and if we had seven consecutive years, I think today things would look very different. But what you did in 2013 - 2014 In order to provide activities to 21 private hospitals, it was obvious that you had more interests than solving health problems. That is why we have a systematic approach, which is why we receive public support and are always responsible for every different opinion, but we never fall to the level that you show in plenary with such speeches. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Personal explanation Professor Mihailov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers, Dear Minister Ananiev, Dear Deputy Ministers! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I think you misunderstood two things. First of all, my speech in this part that you quoted, and I meant if you remember, or look at the transcript of the meeting, that the scenario is starting to go in a way that does not turn our meeting into a debate. You still do not understand the vote of mistrust tabled by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is not aimed at intentions, but at serious inaction in the field of health, which led to the literally serious state of Bulgarian healthcare, for which the current ruling coalition is responsible, and especially the big partner in it. Therefore, the reasons for the vote of no confidence have been tabled, not the intentions. The intentions are only part and were commented quite conscientiously, quite correctly by us on the page of the vote of mistrust. Perhaps you should get acquainted very carefully with the reasons of the vote of distrust before the vote, to get acquainted with the proposed vision for Bulgaria, because the way in which it is commented by colleagues from GERB is not correct and when the vote really shows what is your attitude to the problem that we are putting. Because this problem, Mr. Tsvetanov, was put by the entire Bulgarian people. Health is with the lowest trust of citizens in the spheres of social life in Bulgaria. This is a very serious fact. Other facts are very serious, which Dr. Daritkova quoted, and now I will try to explain them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u122	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u123	If I could just move on for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u124	Not now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u125	We have the worst health evaluation indicators. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u126	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov, the minutes are up for a personal explanation. Go ahead, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have deviated from the personal explanation procedure that Professor Mihailov requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u128	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u129	I think when they go out to talk about such MPs and have a personal explanation for something they're offended about... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u130	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u131	I would like to ask why it wasn't said about medicines for those who had expired oncologically ill.............................................................................................. Are you going to talk about health reform, Mr. Mihailov? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u132	To me was the remark, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Bojankov, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u133	My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President, because today, at the doctor's feast, we have allowed ourselves once again to humiliate them. Here, upstairs are the doctors from Gorna Oryahovitsa, and to them I owe my life, to my child, to my entire family, those doctors who became known for being beaten, who left the hospital... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u134	We greeted them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u135	Mr. Bojankov, to me is the remark. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! Colleagues, calm down, I will turn on the microphone of colleague Bojankov, but let's be correct about the procedure to be to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u136	Yes, Madam President, you have the procedure. When you allow it from the stands, I personally have no eyes to greet the doctors for their celebration. Let GERB and Mr. Tsvetanov, if they have a conscience, congratulate them for their holiday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u137	They've already greeted them, Mr. Bojankov. Prof. Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u138	Thank you, Madam President. In the manner of conduct, Madam President. I think we have gathered in this Chamber to debate on health issues, not to lower the Bulgarian Parliament to the system of personal attacks and quotes from individual media. Anything you point out can be cited, but not in this debate, Mr. Tsvetanov. I am asking you for a political correctness, not a pathetic state to attack individual MPs in person, and so am I! You heard me, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u139	To me, Mr. Mikhailov, please, to me. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u140	You support this, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u141	I can't know what anyone will say during a procedure in the manner of conduct. See, now I don't know what Mr. Ivanov is going to tell me. How do I limit his talking? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u142	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Madam President, obviously today you did not understand either, and your colleagues from GERB did not understand what we were talking about. Today, your attitude during the debates and speech of Mr. Tsvetanov, which you admitted from this tribune, shows that this is the same attitude that the cabinet has towards the sick, because you allowed old practices to repeat from this same tribune. We all remember how Mr. Tsvetanov sentenced these doctors. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u143	To me, Mr. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u144	You allowed Mrs. Karayancheva to give out sentences again from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u145	What kind of things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u146	Don't interrupt me, because this is where charges have been made against a colleague. And I remember years ago when they were accused of doctors. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u147	Mr. Ivanov, I gave your colleague the opportunity to defend himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u148	Ms. Karayancheva, you are reviving old practices. You have become a face of old practices that have humiliated this Parliament and have fully confirmed the words of your group president that this Parliament has come to the bottom. Today, that's confirmation. The attitude towards doctors and patients showed up today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u149	Thank you. [[Replications outside the microphone.]] Mr. Kirilov, in the manner of conduct. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u150	In the manner of conduct, Madam President, all to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u152	My request is as follows: whenever any Member of the National Assembly is tempted to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I ask you very strongly to respect the Rules of Procedure. [[Deputies from BSP for Bulgaria are standing before the banks and talking to other MPs from the parliamentary group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u153	Quiet, please! Take your seats! Colleagues of BSP, take your seats in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u154	Strictly follow the rules. If someone is speaking in the form of personal explanations, procedures in the manner of conduct, take this time, because these are statements on the substance. We have heard instructions five or six times about how the debate was conducted. However, the debate is in plenary time, in what is laid down in the Rules. There can also be quoted titles, which are published in printed editions. There can develop all kinds of tézi. In this debate, you have had the opportunity to say: The debate is followed entirely by your rhythm, according to your requirements. We follow your requirements. Follow, Madam President, the Rules and there is no point in five, six, seven procedures in the manner of conduct. It's a time abuse thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Let's go back to the normal atmosphere. A statement? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u156	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament! Let's imagine for a second that this debate wasn't degenerate, like everyone else that happens in this room. Let's imagine for a second that the MPs will have five or six days to think about how to vote on the draft decision on no-confidence not according to their party affiliation, but according to logical thinking. If we go into this fiction, unfortunately, we have to say the following: to decide whether to press for............... the proposed vote of mistrust, you have to judge two things. The first is: which of the motives of the vote of mistrust is true and what is not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u157	Nothing is true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u158	Isn't it true that hospitals are bankrupting the community and private ones are booming?! Isn't it true that doctors leave, that there are no nurses, that people, patients, also go after their doctors and seek treatment abroad?! Is it not true that private and public spending combined by the healthcare system is being stolen? I didn't say it, it was said by ministers from this cabinet, it was said by MPs from this majority. And when we say that this system is being stolen and offered to finance it with 800 million, what consensus are you talking about?! What do we agree on for 800 million leva? yet to be stolen directly from the pocket of the Bulgarian citizen in the pocket of the four people who benefit from the system?! For what consensus?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u159	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u160	You know better than me who. And when you know that you don't have words to deny these motives, we have to ask ourselves the question: since the finding is common, that the system does not work, that healthcare is in collapse, does this government and this majority have the power to change it for good?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u162	The answer, someone is calling here. On what grounds, gentlemen?! In two years, nothing, not a single action on any matter. All the readings indicate that the system is getting worse, and it's not getting better. And in the second year we are presented with two abducted models, abducted models, which have something in common. They were rejected by the people inside, rejected by the people outside, rejected by the international observers. The Minister will take the floor, he can share what the World Health Organization thinks about its proposals. They are rejected by the rulers themselves, who do not defend their proposals, but say: "But these are only intentions. We can do it, but we can't do it. There is no time, as different lists show, and as different people count who do not reach treatment. There is no time to think about your intentions or whether they are real or untrue. What is real, however, are the proposals that have leaked in the media, about the health system and which will enter here through the Transitional and Final Provisions of the National Health Insurance Fund Act and its budget. And these suggestions, believe me, rejecting the models will now seem like a fairy tale compared to the reaction that awaits you on the proposals that are already prepared.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u163	It's just intentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u164	There is no saying, only intentions were. Intentions, intentions, but you've consulted them around, and you've already done the calculations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u165	You might like them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u166	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there are five days left in which each of us can think about how to vote...................................to leave this government or stay. Let us all be aware of the vote of distrust towards the government in the field of health is won outside this House. Failure is definitive, it is consumed, it is irreversible. And if you don't find it today from here on the inside, there will come people who will find it outside. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Secretary, come in. Mr. Ananiev, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, too, at the very beginning, use the wonderful holiday of Saint Ivan Rilski Miraclemaker to congratulate the Bulgarian doctors with their Bulgarian Doctor's Day and to thank them for the saved lives, for the care they take for our citizens, for our patients! I know they work in difficult conditions, but they do everything from the heart. 11 months and 9 days ago, when the National Assembly elected me Minister of Health, I said that health care had no colour and promised all the time, however long it was, to work in consensus, with understanding, in good communication with all parliamentary represented... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u169	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats, let's keep this room quiet. The minister listened patiently, let's hear him out. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I made a commitment to work properly with all parliamentary parties represented in parliament, and I also maintain such contacts outside the parliament. The first charge of not fulfilling my promise was one of Mrs. Ninova's motives that I have not met with anyone, that I have not spoken to anyone, that no one agrees with my proposals and closed the subject with one sentence: Some believe that the discussions and debates begin at the National Round Table on the topic of........................ and its future. And that's not true. For two weeks, before the National Round Table, I held work talks with all the institutions concerned, starting from the word organizations, patient organizations, representatives of pharmaceutical organizations, trade unions, employers, associations and associations of all types of hospitals................................................................................... In all these conversations...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u171	What did they say?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u172	I'll tell you what they said, I'll tell you. In all these talks, there were only two organizations that strongly opposed the change - these were patient organizations and trade unions. Absolutely all the other organizations that participated in these workshops said that this was a good start, which we should continue, to continue the debate, including the National Round Table. We then decided to make working groups that, by 26 November, would produce concrete proposals either to improve one of these two models, or to define a third to be better than these two models. Maybe you're used to it, and that's why you want it now or immediately, you're used to the command-administrative approach. I'm a different person. I want to when I go to the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from GERB]] and to the National Assembly, to stand behind me all these organizations, if not one hundred percent, one large part, and not to start these debates and to end up nowhere and the results be none. Furthermore, once we have put together these proposals, we are forming a definite opinion on what to do with this model and not just a model, but at all the health care system how to go forward is not just the specific model, then maybe I will make a second round table to present the results of these working groups and then when at the round table all the representatives say: "This will be the case, then I already have the reason to go to the government. Besides, Mrs. Ninova, I think she's out right now. [[GERB noise and lines]] , cannot make meetings with the two, the three organizations that will, of course, object at the first moment for nothing else, but because they do not know what we will offer for them in our development and then go immediately down to the Press Centre and present things not as they were inside the Chamber when they were debated. And these organizations have to come up with special messages to let people know that's not what they said inside during the talks. That's unfair.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u173	Why is he lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u174	That's unfair! I'm not lying. See which organizations came out after that with special messages, worried calling me: We didn't say that. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u175	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u176	Now, I address Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Tsvetanov, there are few good things in BSP's motives. And the good things in the motives are related to a part of my presentation in which I described the shortcomings of the current health insurance model. [[Applause from GERB.]] They've taken very nicely the ones that I've exposed to the flaws, and so are their good suggestions in the motives, because we all know them. The point is, however, that when I present them, I present them so that I can mobilize the energy of all interested people, their capacity, their expertise to improve things forward, and BSP colleagues use them to make a vote of no confidence. This is the big difference between the approach of one side and the other. [[Applause from GERB.]] I prefer to seek consensus, not a vote of no confidence. [[Applause from GERB.]] Vot healthy, I will use the word "healthy" because it is about health, a healthy vote of mistrust is not made with sick arguments. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]] It's nice, they read part of my presentation. It was nice to read the rest of the presentation, which answers a number of questions that you put here as sick people. For example, the National Health Information System, the centralized tender of medicines and medical devices, the Large Emergency Aid Project is three projects. You may not believe it, but I'm on it and I'm gonna bring them to the end. If I have the opportunity to be at the moment when we will change the model of financing and management of health care, these three projects will be implemented and will help implement the change in the system. Really public procurement, sometimes they send us back to this module, to that module, a week, two, but they go and they walk. I'll finish them off! You can be sure! Besides, we won a big project on NAT technology. This is something that Bulgaria has not done. The blood work went on for months at labs abroad. This project we will develop and it will be unique. What about this year?! This year, we brought a special opportunity for pregnant mothers to be tested in advance, even during their pregnancy, to see if there will be any harmful diseases of the fetus. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But not in Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u177	Please! Proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u178	A lot of things... [[speaking indistinctly]] A lot of things have been said...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u179	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u180	Sorry, that's why there's no debate during the vote. When we sit down and talk, we can tell each other these things. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u181	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u182	A lot of things have been said about not seeing outpatient help. They don't see what happens in hospital care, in control?! Well, you haven't read them. In outpatient assistance, the resource is increased, and it is for carrying out specific activities with a specific result of therapy, from monitoring the treatment. [[Heckling]] That's right, what's not there so far is prevention, prevention with an increased amount of funding. In hospital care. Right now we're doing a real-life study of the clinical pathways, something that you're claiming, but we're doing it now. Of course you can go to another form. We're also working on the problem of diagnostically related groups. Let's see who's better, but at the moment of transition, of course we'll continue with the clinical pathways. With regard to control, there are a number of measures, not to repeat them: for triple control, for the creation of a new body that will be medical supervision, which will register and control all medical activities and so on. We've got a number of other things planned. The patient didn't have access to it because this particular system is now organized so that the person who can pay, he has all the access, and the person who won't pay anything back, he is deprived of medical care. Well, exactly what we are doing now is, first of all, we are telling the Bulgarian citizen: you will not pay 1 billion. 750 million. lv. under the table and pay back in some legal way. We're in it with clean money, light money, and we're not gonna let this guy get extra money under the table. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We reduce the possibility of making unregulated additional money by Bulgarian citizens. Since you mean my past, it was a financial mechanism and there was nothing else, but it wasn't. I use the financial mechanism. Firstly, with the legal resources we provide, to value the real expenditure on clinical pathways, to have the opportunity for new activities, new policies, new healthcare programmes, to have the opportunity for new equipment, for new equipment, to have the opportunity to talk about modernization of Bulgarian healthcare, to be able by increasing the resources, to improve it and to really meet the current requirements for good medical practice, so that those people who, today, we all congratulate them, to receive better wages than those who are now receiving. I don't want to go on. I can talk a lot more, but I want to end up positive. Let's forget what happened today. It wasn't the best thing to have a debate on health care in a no-confidence vote. Let's move on together. After the end of the Second Round Table, I will make a meeting with all the political forces. I'll come to your headquarters and explain to you what happened after these debates and discussions, so you can be convinced. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, you've never seen an approach like that before, but maybe you should see one like that! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, you don't have time for 14 seconds. Here you go, but I'll be exact. You can save a respectable Mrs. Chairman. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u184	I'll say it before I put my card on. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Members of Parliament, my time has come to amaze myself. Listening to you, everything in health care is fine. Mr. Minister, the only true thing you've said from this tribune is: I'll finish them off!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u185	Five seconds. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with the microphone off.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Shopov. [[Heckling]] There's time. The United Patriarchs have six minutes and nineteen seconds. Mr. Shopov made a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u186	Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! Madam President, I listen and think, I have long shared it in different forums, in different forms, when discussing the issue of health care, the problem is largely legal. Why do I think that? We all have to admit that the biggest problem is the stealing of the Health Insurance Fund and the diverting of funds for personal gaining a public dangerous phenomenon according to the basic rules of criminal law, with which the Criminal Code is the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, which, through the possibilities of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the special prosecutor's office, the court and the specialized court, sanction the guilty persons. This is the meaning of criminal law. First, to sanction, all lawyers know it, the guilty persons who committed the crime. We're talking about a crime because siphoning billions is a crime and a general prevention of criminal law. Therefore, many times in private talks with the Minister, and with the previous ministers, and with the Attorney General, and with the prosecutors, I have pleaded to make changes to the Criminal Code. We all know that hospitals, private, state and municipal, have become cash registers for draining the Health Insurance Fund. En of people with real sentences and in prison will mean: decisive struggle and intolerance of society and zero tolerance in terms of what we are wondering how to limit. Every normal state, every society has a means and a way to combat negative phenomena. This is a relevant branch of criminal law, with which, if not decisively to deal with, society can seriously combat. What else are we talking about? We've seen him recently pump saline, save medicine to sell, and abroad. Is this the only case? I have always pleaded for this battle for better healthcare to include the possibilities of criminal law and from now on to act decisively. This has already had its effect with the recent actions of the Ministry of Interior, the investigation and the prosecution. This line needs to be extended. The increased repression of the state, the penalty penalty and the fight against negative phenomena, in the case of healthcare, must be given a decisive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. The vote on mistrust will be voted on 24 October 2018, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Let us thank the ministers who were guests today. We won't have a break. We continue with parliamentary control: Written responses were received from: - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Atanas Kostadinov, and Georgi Svilenski. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin. - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Elena Yoncheva, Lyubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev. - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev. - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev. - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova. - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Hristian Mitev. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Colleagues, we are continuing with questions to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on asking the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Georgi Stratilov Svilenski about the policy of the Ministry of Interior concerning the registration and reporting of crimes of general nature and road accidents. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my colleague Mr. Ivanov and I are asking a very important question concerning your work and your position as Minister of the Interior. It is said in society that the Ministry of Interior does not register and does not properly and correctly take into account the crimes of general nature committed on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as did the victims of the victims of the victims of the victims who have been killed and injured. This question is not just statistics and numbers to provide us. This question lays the basis for what the Ministry of Interior formed its policies both to deal with crime in the country and to reduce the number of victims of road accidents. We know European directives and programmes. There is talk of a 50% reduction in the victims of road accidents within 2020. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is in one of the last places on this indicator, i.e. nearing the decrease in values and this cannot happen only by covering up and by mistaking and recording these victims, whether they died or were injured. In this regard is also our question: what is the policy of the government and specifically of the Ministry of Interior for dealing with the problem, with proper reporting and registration of victims of road accidents and crimes of general nature in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u189	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, the procedure provides five minutes for an answer to the question put by the MPs Ivanov and Svilenski. You have the floor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Ivanov and Svilenski, police statistics on crimes of general nature is one of the main products of the information activities of the police authorities and is implemented in accordance with: the Act on the Ministry of Interior; the Law on Statistics; the rule of law on statistics and technological procedures for processing data related to the prevention, investigation and detection of crimes of general nature. Police statistics on crimes of general nature are formed from data acquired by police authorities on the occasion and in connection with the performance of their duties under the Criminal Code and the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as other legal acts relating to their implementation. It shall not take into account grounds for excluding the guilty, the wrongdoer's inability and the grounds for exemption from criminal liability. Police statistics include only crimes of general nature, for which the structures of the Ministry of Interior have received communications, which are excluded from this scope: crimes against the Republic of Bulgaria; crimes against the defence ability of the Republic of Bulgaria; crimes against information representing state secret and against foreign classified information; war crimes and crimes against peace and humanity; crimes committed outside the territory of the country; crimes prosecuted as the grief of the victim. The structures of the Ministry of Interior with anti-crime functions through the detection and investigation of crimes enter and maintain data in automated information systems. Data shall be systematized in uniform tabular form using uniform criteria, indicators and requirement to collect and process information. The registration and reporting of common criminal offences shall be carried out on the basis of internal rules for the organisation of work in the Ministry of Interior for applicant materials, for general offences and methodological guidelines for the collection of data and automated processing of police statistics in relation to the registration of applicant materials for committed crimes of a general nature. The applicant material is a communication received in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, which contains evidence of a committed crime of a general nature. Pre-trial proceedings shall be registered as application material by accepting its number. The employee assigned to the job shall without delay complete and sign a card a report of a crime committed. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules indicates the information to be entered in the cards and then in the information system for each number of applicant material, respectively pre-trial proceedings. This is information on the data on: the crime, the legal qualification of the act, a single crime number in the Single Crime Counteraction Information System; a single number of criminal proceedings in the same system; the movement of the applicant material, respectively pre-trial proceedings in the form of such a and a basis according to the PPC on which date and where it was sent, and other data. According to the provisions of art. Art. 24, Art. 27 of the Rules, upon completion of the examination of the applicant material or work in judicial proceedings, the officer working on the case shall immediately fill in, sign and transmit a completed verification card, respectively pre-trial proceedings. The cards to be drawn up in relation to the work on applicant material shall be submitted for introduction into the integrated regional police system. The registration and reporting of road accidents shall be carried out on the basis of the Road Traffic Act and instructions for registration, reporting and analysis of road accidents. The Regulation lays down the conditions and arrangements for the interaction between the control bodies of the Ministry of Interior and medical institutions in providing assistance to victims of road accidents, including through the exchange of information on the consequences of traumatic damage to victims of road accidents. All data on serious road accidents and injuries shall be recorded within the day. The information is summarised in the Directorate General of the National Police and includes data on the number of serious accidents, mild and severe injuries, deaths, life-threatening, including data on additional deaths within 30 days of the date of the accident. Annual information on road accidents for killed and injured shall be provided to the National Statistical Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor. Please come in for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, of course, we are familiar and it is good that here, from the stands of the National Assembly, you have delivered full information exactly what is the order for registration and reporting of both road accidents and crimes of general nature in the Ministry of Interior. I guess you know, or if you don't know, now I'm going to introduce you to the reasons why you asked this question, because really the subject of crime and road accidents is particularly relevant to date. The war on the roads goes with full force, especially the so-called domestic or conventional crime, which comes out of any norms, including the case in Ruse. This is a manifestation of the common crime situation in the country. You know that a number of non-governmental organizations quoted specific information about how data are being manipulated with regard to victims or victims during road accidents, and based on data coming from the Home Office's website. My personal experience is that when searching at all for statistics information on the website of the Ministry of Interior for the past is almost absent and with extremely long delay such information for old or current periods comes out. Let's say it's almost impossible for a person who wants to know this information to be able to obtain it in actual time. The other reason we ask you this question is that we want to know specifically from you what your opinion is, because you have already become a minister of the interior. You were Secretary General when this thing happened during a meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. A representative of the Ministry has admitted that there are cases with heads of regional governments who conceal information about registered crimes and it does not exist in their reports, which subsequently distorts the information you receive up at the Ministry, respectively you pass on to citizens and statistics. In this regard, it is extremely important that we understand this thing, is it not, and what measures you are taking in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond to the clarification made by Mr. Ivanov within three minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, regarding the case that you are most likely referring to the provision of data on the number of people killed and injured, as well as the strong public interest, we have taken action to upload these data daily to the Ministry of Interior's website with a view to transparency and information to the public. As I told you, this statistic is dynamic, as in the case of a traffic accident it may at the beginning be registered as heavy road traffic with moderate or severe bodily injury and within 30 days it will pass into a traffic accident with a deceased. This is as a result of the Law, which provides that within 30 days, if there have been injuries caused by a traffic accident, the road accident has already been retrained as a serious death. We have a specific case of a purely technical error that has been published in the media, but for this I can show you their documents and their movement to understand that it is indeed a purely technical error that is in the transfer of data from documents from the Directorate-General of National Police. With regard to whether applications are concealed in the districts, I would say that we have identified isolated cases of incorrect registration of applicant material, but we are talking about single cases rather than a system. As in any system, some employees make mistakes to them, of course, immediately take disciplinary action, but I assure you that in the way that the statistics covering crime are conducted, as it is also related to other structures, such as the prosecution and other institutions, there is no systematic way to distort it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you have tried to tell us how you proceed, how you act, but you have not said what you will do to prevent all this from happening. Because also in the case with which Mr. Ivanov introduced you, your deputy at the Ministry does not claim to be single cases, but on the contrary, he says: These aren't isolated cases. All Bulgarian citizens have experienced it on their backs when they go to police stations and are denied a complaint on various occasions, only and only this statistic, which you will then provide somewhere, to be within the norms in which you want. You're talking about the wrongs. I'm going to ask you: after the Svoge case, how many people died for the Ministry of Interior? For all Bulgaria they are 20, but for the Ministry of Interior you will tell me that there are 18. Is that a true statistic? Because 17 died on the spot, one died within 30 days, but two died after those 30 days due to this catastrophe. What do we say that they did not die as a result of an accident and that we will reduce casualties?! They're not just from the Svoge case, there are dozens of cases. That is why I say that in order to have the right policy in order to make the right programs, you must have the right actions and measures to have the right data. If you don't have the right data, you live in your own world where you think there are no victims, you think there are no accidents, but there are them on the ground and people feel them. Therefore, my appeal to you is: take action if you need to update changes to regulations, to standards, to criteria, but statistics to be those that meet reality and based on them to take real measures and actions to prevent both crime and road accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u197	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. That was an attitude to the answer to the question. We move on to the next issue, which was raised by the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov on actions taken to control the traffic of heavy goods vehicles in the territory of the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse district. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. You will develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To us as MPs from BSP, elected by Ruse district, citizens from the municipality of Vetovo turned to us. The reason was the miserable state of the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality.. a question that does not concern you directly, Mr. Minister, we will ask it later to Minister Avramova, but from the talks with the citizens we realized that this poor condition of the roads is further complicated by the fact that there are often moving trucks weighing more than the permissible and speeding. On 28 September this year was held a meeting of the Municipal Council of Vetovo, on the open road of Vetovo, where a written declaration was adopted. The people of the municipality of Vetovo want concrete measures to prevent the roads of over-loaded trucks, as well as the driving of these heavy and dangerous speeding machines. It is also clear that this is very dangerous and causes serious accidents, and these cars are destroying the road pavement, which, as we have already said, is quite miserable. Dear Minister, our specific questions are as follows: what measures does the Ministry of Interior take in relation to the so-called demands of the citizens and how will the effectiveness of the control to prevent the movement of overloaded and speeding trucks in the territory of the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u199	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable gentlemen Zarkov, Stoilov and Milkov! Through the territory of the municipality of Vetovo pass Republican road III-2001 village of Pisansk, the town of Kubrat, and III-2302 town of Vetovo, the town of Senovo, as well as municipal road network. The organization of traffic of passing trucks, including those supplied with raw materials, enterprises in the region.... Kaolin................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By Decision No 545 of 26 September 2017 of the Council of Ministers this time was announced by public government property on public municipal property road. Movement of heavy goods vehicles through the town of Vetovo does not pass. It should be noted that with regard to the working stone quarry in the land of the village of Smirnenski, the municipality of Vetovo was decided by the Municipal Council of Vetovo to build a ring road to serve both the trucks from the quarry and the passage of trucks through the village of Smirnenski. Officials of the Regional Branch "Vetovo, performing patrol and post office activities, and those of the Territorial Police are instructed on a daily basis to control speed and prevent heavy goods traffic accidents. From the beginning of the year until now, a car accident with a heavy cargo car has been registered, which has material damage. Regional management "Vetovo," Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Ruse, does not have and is not authorised to use technical means to monitor the overload of cargo vehicles. In cases of suspicion of congestion of vehicles, the assistance of the mobile groups of the Road Infrastructure Agency shall be sought, which shall have measuring technical means for weight control. There have been no cases of speeding from trucks in the territory served by the District Administration. In order to improve the organisation of road traffic through the Republican road network from the beginning of 2018 28 signal letters have been sent to Ruse District Road Management. More are sent to the Municipality of Vetovo to improve the organization of road movement of roads owned by the municipality. In addition to the day-to-day control being carried out, since the beginning of the year three weeks of specialized police operations have been carried out under TISPOL and a new operation has been underway since 15 October 2018 regarding the control of freight vehicles and buses. Checks include congestion violations, handling tachographs, speed, technical malfunction, alcohol and narcotics use, illegal human trafficking and others. I am using this case to assure you that one of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Interior is to limit the victims of road accidents and ensure road safety. Improving road safety and reducing traffic traumatism are also a priority in the management program of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Which one of the importers is gonna get a line? You have this option within two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u202	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I disagree with you that daily controls are being carried out. That's not true. People on the spot say it, the institutions have also not shown that this is happening. Currently in Bulgaria the load or overload of heavy goods vehicles is controlled by the Auto Administration via mobile laboratories. When stopping a heavy cargo vehicle, the employees can weigh with these mobile scales, but this only happens on an equal road. Isn't that also a problem? Those truckloads of cars, it's clear to everyone that they're destroying the roads. They form extremely dangerous tracks that lead to road accidents. Citizens in the area are extremely worried and live in constant anxiety about the uncontrolled movement of these cars, especially because they are moving at a speed that is above the regulation. The residents are also worried about the state of their homes as a result of the constant movement of such cars and, more precisely, about the integrity of their homes. The air in the region is also highly contaminated, highly dusty. Regardless of repeated signals to all institutions, regardless of what you say again and what you promise people, they see no result and do not believe you. Don't say it to me? Tell it to all people: what measures will be taken and when can they see a real result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u203	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You won't take it. You've answered the question already. The third question to the Minister of Interior is from the MPs Krasimir Jankov and Daniel Yordanov on the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in the town of Dobrich. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u204	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the territory of Dobrich district there are eight districts of the Ministry of Interior. They are located on the territory of almost all municipal centers in the district. There are such on the territory of the town of Balchik, to which the municipal center has another district management, which is located on the territory of the resort complex Albena. I will allow myself to get into some details in the sense of the territory they serve, namely for Balchik these are 12 settlements, apart from the municipal center. Such a district management is also available in the territory of Kavarna, which serves 20 settlements; Shabla In the district center is First Regional Management and Second Regional Management, which serves the territory of the municipalities of Dobrich and Krushari. On the territory of Dobrichka municipality there is also a second section... in the village of Karapellit. The territory covered by the Second Regional Government has 68 settlements, with the Second Regional Management covering the territory of the municipality of Krushari, where there are 15 settlements. In this regard is our question to you, Minister: do you foresee restructuring of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior on the territory of Dobrich district, and what measures are you taking to improve the activities and results of the individual units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Yankov, Dear Mr. Yordanov! In the structure of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, as you have also announced, are included eight districts: First district management.. Dobrich, Second district management.. Dobrich, District management...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to ensure the security of citizens, the leadership of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior (MI) Dobrich, according to the dynamics of the operational situation, establishes an organization for the redirection of forces and funds from one district management to another, as well as the redirection of employees from the Regional Directorate to the regional governments. An organization has been established for visiting small settlements by mobile groups, formed by management employees of the departments of the Departments of Security and the Criminal Police at the Regional Directorates and Regional Administrations. Actively interacts with local authorities to identify and solve local security problems. Specialized police operations, including through countering conventional crime, are systematically planned and conducted. The same are planned based on analyses drawn up, as well as with a tendency to increase crime in a given area. Between 1 January and 30 September 2018, a total of 549 specialized police operations were conducted on the territory of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, most of which, with the active assistance of forces and funds from the Regional Gendarmerian Directorate of Varna, and by the Border Police Department General Toshevo and Kavarna. By orders of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Dobrich," the working hours of the employees of the Security and Criminal Police from the First and Second District Department "Dobrich" were changed in order to achieve a police presence in the district city and small settlements after 17.30 h. Flexible working hours were also introduced for the officers of the Territorial Police in the Black Sea Regional Governments. In order to improve the quality and speed of response to a signal of a crime committed with orders of the district chiefs, an organization and order has been established for the reception of citizens and a visit to alerts on crimes and offences. The daily briefings of the staff appointed by an order of duty on accidents shall be carried out. Special emphasis is placed on planning and conducting specialized police operations with the participation of joint teams of Security and Road Police. In this way, it aims to effectively counter conventional crime, prevent persons of interest to the police, and ensure road safety. During the harvest of agricultural production and during the active summer tourist season in order to strengthen police presence and counter crime in small settlements and resort settlements, officials from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior are actively redirected from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any lines to the Minister of Interior's response? Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u208	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the reply procedure, I would like to ask two supplementary questions. Hosts with citizens have been placed very clearly on the issue of territorial units, and in particular: is restructuring and closure of the Second District envisaged? Tell me clearly and clearly that you will not close any police districts in Dobrich district or districts! And two: do you foresee a detailed analysis of the work of mobile groups? Because my colleague Daniel Yordanov and I have put the question before your predecessor. Valentin Radev, and he did not understand that attention is needed in particular to small settlements in terms of presence. These mobile groups, which the new Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior ordered by order, we believe are insufficient to ensure the peace and safety of those living in small towns. You, as a minister who grew up professionally in this strictly hierarchical system, should be aware that additional measures can be taken after detailed analysis. Are you ready to take them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u209	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for a duplicate and an answer to the additional questions, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yankov! On the first question, regarding the Second District Management, I really do not know where this information comes from, but I have only one explanation: since renovations of the building of the District Directorate and some of the district governments are being started, it was discussed a temporary option to change jobs, not to close down the structure of the Second District Management, most likely there was some noise and concerns in the employees, but it was not planned to close down district governments. At this stage there is no planning for closure of district governments in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the operation and effectiveness of mobile groups. As soon as I joined the Secretary General with an order, I created this organization to form mobile groups, work of the Gendarmerist units, co-ordination with the district directorates and effective use of them. After a certain period of application by this order is defined and the so-called headquarters is constantly active. It shall include the Deputy Secretary-General, who shall also act as Chief Secretary, Deputy Directors of the General Directorates and Monthly, and, where appropriate, on a case-by-case basis, this Headquarters shall meet and analyse all the results of the reporting forms for the work of these groups. Maybe somewhere isn't enough. Once again, I am trying with the available resources to cover all settlements, albeit for a certain period, and at a time when this is necessary, as one of my main tasks is to conduct competitions and appoint new employees to strengthen the personnel potential of the Ministry and to preserve it so that it can be used to counter crime. Of course, such an analysis is made both at the time of attendance and from the information that occurs in the work of these groups with the local public and with the representatives of the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you, Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first of the questions is asked by the MP Petar Kanev about road II-99 Tsarevo from km 56+860 to km 114+060, with a total length of 57 km. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u212	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Madam Minister, I would like, first of all, to congratulate you and offer you my condolences because you have taken on an extremely difficult ministry. You'll feel that all the time from now on. You're familiar with my question, he's not new. I have asked several times the question about the poor operating condition of the road Tsarevo. Unfortunately, so far no serious measures have been taken to improve it, and road infrastructure is getting worse every day. Your predecessor has made a commitment to find funding opportunities by including this section in the Road Repair Program 2018. The road Tsarevo is passing through the most beautiful site of Nature Park. This time it is the direct link between the checkpoint Malko Tarnovo and the settlements on the southern Black Sea coast. The improvement of road infrastructure will boost tourism in the constituent settlements of the municipality. I would like to use the remaining one minute to remind you only a year ago here in this room, I asked the exact same question to Minister Nankov. Several points of his reply: "Main repair has not been done for more than 40 years" said Minister Nankov; "Training improvement of the technical operational state of the road can be achieved with its complete rehabilitation, not with ongoing repair and maintenance" said Minister Nankov; "The necessary funds of almost 20 million. lv. are relevant, but are very useful, Minister Nankov replied; "In 2017 we included and proposed for the design and the section from 58 to 114 km to have the necessary technical documentation, Minister Nankov replied. Finally, the minister said: The Global Decision will take place after the project is prepared, its implementation will begin within 2018. You have my question. I got back together in those two minutes. I would like to understand you are the fourth minister to whom I have asked this question in the last five years: what do we do from now on?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u213	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the question of the MP Petar Kanev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u214	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Kanev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Road safety is not only one of the main priorities, but also the most important one in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively in the Road Infrastructure Agency. That is why we are doing our best to improve the operational state of Republican roads throughout the country. We have the care, including for road II-99 Tsarevo In order to ensure the safety of people, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively the API, will take real action to ensure road safety. What has been done so far for road II-99 in the section from Malko Tarnovo to Tsarevo is included in the Programme for the design of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2018, currently preparing documentation for a public contract with the subject of development of technical projects for major repairs of road sites in four positions as follows: separate position No 1 Tsarevo. Malko Tarnovo from km 58 to 117, concerning your inquiry; separate position No 2 Road III-907 Marinka A contractor is scheduled to be appointed by the end of 2018. After the preparation of the project, it should pass the relevant coordination procedures within the maximum time frame and after the adoption, the approval of the technical project, proceed to an open procedure for selecting a contractor for the main repair of section II-99, but in the section from Burgas to Tsarevo. What I want to inform you, which will probably be important for you, and for the people who use this time the Road Infrastructure Service has been requested and from next week starts repairing the road, which will be no major repair, but there will be complete implementation, along the entire length of the track, of a bandager. So the whole section will be asphalted before the main repair, for which a technical project will be prepared and will be implemented after the selection of a contractor in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u215	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kanev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u216	Madam Minister, you sound very optimistic! Basically, what we have heard from you is a complete Copi-Paist of Minister Nankov, of Minister Lilyana Pavlova and before that. Moreover, people who understand construction understand that earlier than two to three years we will not have major road repairs. As you can see, the previous minister's answer before you says that with current repairs this can hardly be fixed. I honestly do not know how to motivate the Ministry and all of you that this time this mountain is also extremely important for Bulgaria. Last time, a year ago, I allowed myself to tell myself what a miracle Strandzha Mountain is and how it is necessary for many natural historical reasons to actually separate a serious resource there. But I don't know how to approach another minister and another promise. You know that about a month ago there was a serious event, a big downhill of the next road between Burgas and the checkpoint. Then your mayor of Malko Tarnovo, a bit of a joke, announced that the only way from here is for Malko Tarnovo municipality to make a referendum and go to Turkey. I understand that this is a joke, but you can see that people are already fed up with it and they don't know where. You know that for this region there are two roads Depopulation of Strandzha Mountain is fantastic! I wouldn't even say it's transport, it's not regional, it's political, it's geopolitical in light of recent developments in the region. Once again I ask you, I understand your last promise that they start mending, starting reinforcements, starting something small, whether it will be for 50 or 100 thousand. lv. It's not that important, the important thing is that the fourth year I ask the same question. This time it is important for the region, this time it is important for Bulgaria. Understand it! Thank you once again, and I trust that this time your promise will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u217	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u218	Just two words to Mr. Kanev. Mr. Kanev, there will be no single holes mending along the route. That's all I wanted to say. There'll be no mending, no stitching, no single holes. From next week begins the complete application of a bandager along the entire route as preventive repair before procedures and before starting a major repair of the entire route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u219	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to the next issue, which is from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov regarding the urgent repair of the roads in the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse district. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, once again in our region citizens turned to us, this time from the municipality of Vetovo, on the occasion of the miserable state of the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality. A moment ago you heard they also addressed the issue of heavy goods vehicles in the region, which are moving overloaded, speeding. Here our question is more about the repair of the sections along the road of Red Water A few weeks ago the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Vetovo made a demonstration with an open meeting of the very road Vetovo. There has been accepted a written declaration of the miserable state of the roads that I will provide you with. We have personally visited, once again, and this tragic section of the roads in our area, to the municipality of Vetovo this time, and we have seen the unacceptable and dangerous condition of the road pavement, which seriously threatens people's health and has turned our paths not into connecting, but into dividing arteries. People expect more than answers. They also expect immediate action to improve the state of Republican roads in the municipality of Vetovo. Minister, on this basis our question to you is: what is the current state of the road sections of the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse; have concrete actions been taken to organize repair works of the sections of this network on the territory of the municipality; when will this repair be started and completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milkov, Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Zarkov, honourable MPs! On the territory of the municipality of Vetovo, Ruse district are located three sections of the Republican road network road 3-2001 by Pisan................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Road Infrastructure Agency is making every effort to maintain the roads in the district and the country, as well as in Vetovo, in a good operational state, in line with the resources available under the Programme Current repair and maintenance. In relation to the question you have asked, I would like to inform you that in 2017 and 2018 there was a patching of holes, deformations, cutting of shrubs and trees, vertical signalling, the horizontal marking in the villages of Vetovo, Senovo and Glodzhevo has been restored. More detailed information regarding the funds invested in the road maintenance appears to be as follows: for road 3-2302 For the road 3-2302 from km 0 to 21 is provided a patching with bitumen emulsion and a fraction under pressure, which will be performed when providing the necessary resource from the Road Infrastructure Agency. The Ministry of Regional Development, respectively the Agency, is carrying out continuous control and ensuring normal operation and safety of road infrastructure within the limits of our capabilities and we are looking for funding to be able to rehabilitate the specific road sections that you refer to in your inquiry. There was such a question last week by your colleagues, so we are looking for an option and an opportunity to repair the segment you are asking about in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u223	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Will there be a reply to Minister Avramova's reply? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, I am completely objective that in the Ruse region, especially in the municipality of Vetovo, the situation is tragic. Here you mentioned that there are some patchwork being done, funds being made, but those in place to tell you are not visible. You don't see any results. People feel humiliated and disadvantaged. They feel that the municipality is deliberately led towards transport, economic and cultural secession from the rest of the region. This is another place where the people and their representatives in this case went to an open session, expressing by protest, by demonstrating their discontent. I mentioned a few minutes ago about the multiple holes, the tracks from the heavy goods vehicles, and at the moment we didn't hear specific dates, what year these repairs would take place, what would happen. People just said that to the Prime Minister, they don't believe it. They don't just believe in words and yes, that's what's going to happen. They want real results, they want, as you say, visible results, not just on paper. Tell them, when is this thing supposed to happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u225	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You have a chance, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u226	In response to what you ask as a specific date, I cannot say. But since the answer to your question may leave the impression that the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry do not care at all about the roads in the Ruse region, I would like to give a few figures to see that other roads in this area needed repair and there are funds involved, and not least. In 2017, it was 9 million. Twenty-four thousand. BGN 689, 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is 92,000. BGN 987. At present, a reconstruction is being carried out on road road double on route II-21 Ruse from km 0 to 0293 worth 1 million. Ninety-nine thousand. BGN 531. The following sites are implemented by budget under the Programme: road I.5 Veliko Tarnovo, worth 6 million. Six hundred thousand. lv.; road I.5 Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," to km from 6 to 44, worth 6 million. 149 thousand. 911 BGN. And so on. I say this because I do not want you and the people who are watching us to be under the impression that we have stopped working and that the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry do not care about all the road sections of the Republican road network. We're looking for opportunities wherever there are critical areas. It was no coincidence that an entire Republican road network was investigated so that we could prioritize the funds we have to put them where it is most necessary. Thank you for this question and we will work together to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev on the repair activities of the road infrastructure and facilities of the north speed tangent. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the northern speed tangent is a speedy road connecting four highways Two lanes have been built with three lanes for three and a half meters, as well as an emergency lane. The length of the object is 16.5 km. The site has been put into operation with permission to use by the Directorate of National Building Control No.T-05-15-17 since 2016, namely: speedy north tangent from km 0 to km 16+540, road node east tangent, future communication connection, Chepinsko shose road node, Diamant at km 9+700, displacement and reconstruction of the facilities concerned, as well as certificates of use No.T-05-16-22, i.e. an order to supplement the previous certificate. The construction cost us 180 million. lv. with VAT, or 12 million. lv. About a mile away. There are at least two road nodes left to be finished... Kubratovo and Levski G. At the same time, repair works are currently being carried out, which lead to limiting the movement, which creates inconvenience and difficulties for the participants in the movement. My question to you is: what is the amount of money spent on the repair activities of the road infrastructure and equipment of the north-speed tangent? Wasn't it appropriate to use these tools instead of repairing them to build the finished road nodes?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u229	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Danchev, honourable MPs! The northern speed tangent from km 0 to km 16+540 is built according to Operational Programme First, I would like to stress that the site is still in guarantee and all identified deficiencies of a guaranteed nature during this period are removed from the implementation consortium of the NSAs, in which the consortium participates "Hydrostroy", the Road Constructions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Where defects are detected, the Agency shall inform the contractor thereof and shall give the time limit for their removal. It is the responsibility of the builder to provide the necessary funds, to organize and to perform the necessary repair works qualitatively and within the time limit. In this sense, the contractor company has no commitment to declare to the API the funds it has invested for the repair activities because they are the contractor's commitment. The Agency shall monitor repair work in order to be performed qualitatively, within the time limit and in accordance with the requirements of the technical specification. Due to the failure of the dellatationary joints of the bridge facilities of the railway overpass at km 3+685 and bridge over the river Vladaiska.At km 6+423 it was necessary to carry out guarantee repair activities carried out at present. In connection with the repair of the northern speed tangent, a temporary traffic safety organization has been introduced, which is agreed with the road police sector, Sofia Municipality and the Regional Road Management Sofia. According to the order for a temporary traffic safety organisation, repair activities should be completed by 25 October 2018. According to the Framework Agreement on joint financing of the site of 30 March 2010 between Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, the preliminary project for the construction of the northern speed tangent was commissioned by the municipality and was adopted by the Agency. The tangent, cross-links, road nodes and all facilities have been put into service by issuing a permission to use, which you have quoted. According to the correspondence, the municipality's commitment remains to repair and build the bringing street network to serve the city and small settlements in the territory. According to the correspondence between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the municipality, the municipality declared its investment intentions for the construction of a road network to connect the municipality's urban territory with the tangent. In this regard, I would like to inform you that all funds spent by the Road Infrastructure Agency are intended for use. I also report to the public your comfort that not a penny of the Agency's budget is spent on guaranteeing support for the north-speed tangent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, your answer, unfortunately, must be found to be absolutely formal. Irregularities have been identified during the construction itself, and what happens with the closure of the northern speed tangent for repair only two and a half years after its construction, so to speak, a loud release to service is simply unacceptable. Even then, I remember personally because I am a Member of the National Assembly from Sofia, and I have previously asked several questions to the Mayor of Sofia on various and other channels that I have used to comment on this issue that the Prime Minister personally cut a ribbon at least twice when discovering the northern speed tangent. In one of the openings he himself commented that about 300,000 had been poured out. tons of land mass to make the road strong enough so that it is strong enough and does not give a quote. It's obvious that when repairs are needed now, it's just that construction was extremely poor and that has to be recognised. Should I ask myself, in such a situation, to oblige drivers to endure, firstly, traffic jams on a newly created broad road, and, secondly, probably not to use it to spare it so that it does not spoil it. Because in my opinion, it is clear that since only two years after its launch, repairs are needed, more repairs are yet to be made. If now these repairs, as you have informed us, are at the expense of the contractor, as we are still in the guarantee period of use of this road facility, who will pay for the repairs after the guarantee period expires? It is clear that we are all users of this path. The answer you gave us on the occasion that two road nodes is the one with the "Levski" and Kubratovo, were practically made, built, but ended in nothing, that the municipality's obligation was to do this work by building links with the urban road infrastructure, is also, to say, formal. This response has been listening to it for several years, so really, instead of spending money on poor construction, it is better to do something less, but working and lasting, mostly, so that our fellow citizens do not have to pay for it several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u233	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to make a duplicate and take an attitude. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know what a formal answer means. I categorically said that public funds from the Road Infrastructure Agency were not invested in the repair of this section of the Northern Speed Tangerine and that repair activities were carried out on emerging defects of a service nature after the start of the course movement during the period during which its functionality was observed and that these funds were entirely of the companies that carried out this site. In this regard, you know, we have already announced that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has prepared and has already published a Regulation on road design so that we have safer roads designed with all the requirements for them. The other moment, which concerns the quality of construction, will be irreconcilable to this and to the contractors who carry out the construction activities and to the licensed companies that carry out the construction supervision, as well as to us, we will increase the investor control by the Road Infrastructure Agency in the performance of the sites on which it is a contracting entity, so that the will of the Ministry, the government, of the Prime Minister is to be irreconcilable to the implementation of the activities, of the construction activities, in particular, and of the construction of roads, they will be implemented qualitatively and within time. We are preparing a change in the legal framework that concerns the activities of licensed construction supervision companies so that we have effective supervision throughout the construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u235	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov on a crossroads restraint in Belitsa municipality. Here you are, Mr. Kulkov, to develop the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister, I appeal to you about the fact that by Republican route II-84 Yakoruda, Razlog, in the area of Belitsa municipality from 23.09.2018 to 2.10.2018, there were two very serious incidents, the second of which ended with a death. I take this opportunity to offer my condolences to the loved ones of the deceased. Belitsa Municipality has repeatedly signalled the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency to secure the intersections for the village of Dagonovo, Kraishte village and town of Belitsa, but so far nothing has been done except for the placement of several signposts. Taking into account the workload of the section and infrastructure sites located in the area, including the railway station, it is necessary to take urgent measures such as illumination of these intersections, horizontal road marking with the placing of artificial bumps, wide-angle mirrors and others, in order to prevent heavy road accidents. In this regard, and as a citizen and a Member of Parliament from the region, my question to you is as follows: is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within the current and next budgetary year planning to carry out the necessary actions to secure these intersections in Belitsa Municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u237	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kulkov, honourable MPs! In relation to the question you have asked, there are three intersections at the road station. Their location is kilometers of Republican road II-84 Yakoruda "Belitsa," for the village of Dagonovo "km 88+500," for the village of Kraishte is km 93+500 and for the town of Belitsa is km 92+700. The three intersections are in the regulation of the respective settlements. In accordance with art. 48 points 1 and 2 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Roads Act, the maintenance of Republican roads within the boundaries of the settlements is organized and financed as follows: the Road Infrastructure Agency..... for the maintenance of the road lane, by the respective Municipality.. for the sidewalks, underground facilities, bicycle lanes, parking lots, pedestrian subways, lighting and road landscaping outside the road for the movement of Republican roads within the boundaries of the settlements. An active participation by the municipality of Belitsa is needed to take adequate measures. This shall be generated by the current regulatory framework to take measures to secure the respective intersections. In fact, it is necessary for the municipality of Belitsa to initiate the formation of a commission in which representatives of the sector will be involved................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission aims to take a view of the relevant sections, to determine their respective restraint measures, to draw up a protocol and all involved in carrying out these activities: the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In relation to the above and in relation to the question asked by you, a meeting was held yesterday between the mayor of Belitsa Municipality and the Regional Road Management, which decided to initiate the appointment of such a commission for consideration and identification of measures for further restraint of intersections. The Commission will be formed next week as experts from Regional Road Management are ready to participate in its work in order to determine specific measures for securing intersections if the Commission and the experts in it consider this to be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kulkov, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your response in the part where you are referring to your concerns about road restraint in the Republic of Bulgaria. Moreover, when you took over the leadership of the Regional Ministry, you said that your main priority would be road safety and I very much hope with your efforts and efforts of the municipal administration in Belitsa to find the right approach and to solve a long-standing problem for the citizens living and passing in the area of the road in question II-84 Yakoruda Razlog. I hope that soon things will be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u241	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Would you like a douche? You don't want to take advantage of that right. Allow me to thank Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions asked to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. The first question is from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Ivan Ivanov concerning problems with the functioning of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities supported by the Registry Agency. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the provision of art. 19 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities lays down the order and time limits for the examination of applications for registration, deletion or notification of acts. The legislator has amended the obligation of the Registration Officer to examine the applications for entry of initial registration of a trader by the end of the next working day of their entry and to rule immediately after the examination. 19th para. 3 as well as the obligation to rule on applications for entry and for the deletion of acts immediately after the end of three working days of entry into the registers. Madam Minister, the law is currently not being implemented. On the date of the issue, the registration officials shall rule on applications lodged with a date of 14 September 2018, i.e. the failure to comply with the Law by more than ten days. Failure to comply with the Law by registration officials is detrimental to economic operators with immeasurable consequences. The reference made to the Register indicates that tens of thousands of businesses and non-commercial entities have been affected. This problem has arisen since the beginning of the year. In April 2018, we asked you a similar question about the problems with the entry at that time. By reply of 2 May 2018, you have convinced us that the problem is not in the Registry Agency, but is rooted in the changes of laws that have not been agreed with you, the registration of non-profit legal entities and other factors. You indicated that measures were taken, changes were made, a sharp increase in the state of the Agency, overtime. Five months after your reply, there has been no change to date, and the Law continues to be ignored. In this regard, we ask for your reply to the following: what is the reason why the provisions of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities are not implemented with regard to the time limits for examining the applications submitted? Do you expect the problem to be removed at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u243	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u244	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bonev, Mr. Ivanov, the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities are respected as of today. Applications submitted dated 17 October 2018 shall be processed within the time limit. Yes, you are right that at the time of the beginning of this calendar year and at the time of asking your question with Mr. Ivanov there was some delay in observing this three-day period, which requires art. 19th para. 2 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities. I will repeat and supplement my reply from May, which you correctly quoted. Yes, as a result of a number of legal obligations that have entered into force since 1 January this year, there has been a problem with the Agency in several directions. It is known to all Members of the National Assembly that with the changes in art. 15 of the Commercial Law and the requirement to make registrations of circumstances only if there was a declaration that the relevant insurance contributions were paid to employees, a failure was in the legal framework then that the MPs had not determined how to establish a negative fact. Together with the Ministry and mainly with the MPs, this was corrected by the change that you made to the Commercial Law on 16 February 2018. A new model of declaration was made, but in any case, for this period, a party is generated, which I share with you, was sensitive to that moment. Next, the very fact of the transfer of non-profit legal entities to the Registry Agency, the possibility and time limits for their re-certification, the volume as the number of those legal entities also led to an objective delay and there was a period during which that three-day period was not fulfilled. It's public knowledge. Even then, I informed you at that time what is being done to overcome this delay. Mainly through the additional numbers revealed by a decree by the government for registration officials, and by the overtime of the registration officials over time, we have overcome this delay. I will then continue in my duplicate answer, as I have exhausted three minutes of response time. Entertainment is also generated after the collapse in the Trade Register in August. Accordingly, for the period when it was not working, the entries had to be carried out and this explains why at the time of asking your question we were indeed at a late start. This problem is overcome, the Register is working, the legal three-day deadline is being fulfilled, and I hope that we will not have such problems in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Who's gonna make the line? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u246	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is the impression that parliamentary control is disciplining the institutions. In this case, you have confirmed at least on your part that the personnel problem is solved, although we have some doubts, as the information we had received when asking the question is that at low levels things with employees are arranged, but in the senior Echelon of the Administration of the Registry Agency there are still insufficiently selected personnel to guide. I speak as directorates of directorates, responsible persons. However, in us remains the feeling that the problems are not finally solved and it is very likely that new ones will occur. We are also worried about the noise that has risen around the public procurement that the Agency has launched for the purchase of hard drive space -- 120 terabytes, if I am not mistaken -- about the central server and the backup center that is located in Shumen. From then on, we begin to conclude whether there is a total chaotic work at the Registry Agency at all, and will this lead to another collapse? In this regard, I will ask you: is there a high-speed internet built to date? It's also connected to the backup center in Shumen. Is the information you're supposed to be uploading there even going up? Are we facing a new collapse of the Trade Register soon? Let us not fall into this situation, for to date we do not fully know exactly what the causes are. There have been debates here, all sorts of discussions, but we have no final answer as to why this happened. We don't have a guarantee it won't happen again. If you can get into your back, you can go into a little detail on this subject as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u247	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Minister Tsacheva, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u248	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, honourable Members of Parliament! In terms of, first of all, the personnel matter. There is still a personnel issue and a problem, because the contest is currently taking place for these 30 additional numbers for registration officials. There are also other units that are also problematic, such as the IT sector, where, if 17 employees worked in 2014 and 2015 at the moment, there are four. This is a problem that applies to all administrations and the need for such qualified work, as it is clear to all of us that in the private sector such individuals receive much higher remuneration and it is difficult to find. However, as far as the second part of your question is concerned, I answered your fellow MPs at the Legal Commission for Control on this Wednesday about the need to award a public procurement for additional purchase of disks for more hardware space and in general to ensure the functionality of the Register. The only reason for this is that in connection with the ongoing investigation by the competent authorities, you know that I signaled on the day when the collapse took place, DANS, DGBOP, the prosecution for the needs of the investigation needed to preserve all the information, the so-called... this is not the database from the actual Commercial Register... in order to be able to follow the logs and answer the question waiting for the whole society: what are the reasons that led to the collapse in the Trade Register? The need is to preserve information that amounts to 80 terabytes. This is a huge space in which the Agency should hold data that are not necessary for its work are not related to the functioning of the Trade Register. This is the only reason that led to the need for this public procurement. Otherwise, the Agency is resourcefully provided. As soon as this space is released, which, again, I say, is only for the purposes of the investigation, I am convinced that we will not have, and at the moment we have no problem with the necessary guarantee by the government, by the Ministry, of the technique needed to operate the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u249	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u250	Specifically, once the plan is in place, and this was actually in the previous contract. The contract is the same, the company that maintains is not changed is obliged to make a copy of two more places. Apart from the database, it should be still in one place here in Sofia, as is the center in Mladost and in this reserve center in Shumen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u251	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. We continue with a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev concerning a response of the Minister of Justice to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning a complaint No 5432/2018 by Nikolay Petkov, the registered criminal proceedings by the Turkish state and the actions taken by the Bulgarian State to protect the four border policemen who defended the state border in 2008. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in 2008 Bulgarian border guards Mihail Tsonkov, Zhivko Petkov, Nikolay Kostov and Nikolay Petkov arrested Turkish fishermen illegally in Bulgarian territorial waters for illegal catching of turbots. During the arrest, Turkish citizens resisted. One of the poachers was shot and later rested. The Bulgarian border guards are justified at all the Bulgarian courts. In 2014, the European Court of Human Rights rejected the appeal by Derya Erjan and others against Bulgaria as inadmissible. Last year, the Turkish state launched a criminal procedure against the three border police officers in the Severe Criminal Court in Lozengrad, the Republic of Turkey. On 16 October, that is, on Tuesday, they were called to testify in the Burgas District Court. Article 53 of the European Convention on International Recognition of Sentences ratified by the Republic of Turkey states the following: "Face, in respect of which a European judgment in criminal proceedings has been delivered, cannot be prosecuted, tried or punished in another Contracting State for the same act, if it has been justified. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, I ask the following questions: What actions have been taken by the Bulgarian State, respectively by the Ministry of Justice, so far in defence of the accused Bulgarian citizens and asking the Justice Ministry of the Republic of Turkey for an extract from the Turkish legislation is the only possible step? Why didn't Bulgaria ask the Criminal Court to dismiss the case in Lozengrad, the Republic of Turkey, citing the European Convention on International Recognition of Sentences ratified by the Republic of Turkey? What actions will the Bulgarian state take, respectively you as a justice minister, if, despite the acquittal of the Bulgarian Court of Justice, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on International Recognition of Sentences, the innocent Bulgarian border guards who have fulfilled their duty and defended the Bulgarian state border are condemned in Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u253	Come in for an answer, Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u254	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Tishev, honourable Members of Parliament! Before that in advance, I would like to say that I will ask you for a little more time, because this is really very important for our country, for the state institutions, for how we protect Bulgarian citizens. That is why I would like to inform you in detail and precisely about the steps that have been taken so far and what is next. Before that, however, I would like to make clear some statements that are incorrect in the question asked. Indeed, in 2008, Mikhail Tsonkov, in the performance of his duties in the protection of the Bulgarian border, shot a Turkish citizen during an attempt to cross illegal fishing in Bulgarian territorial waters by a Turkish ship. A case has been brought in Bulgaria, which at that time was brought before the Military District Prosecutor's Office.. Sliven, and there the criminal case in question has been dealt with. But due to the lack of a decree by the U.S. Attorney's Office, the case has been dismissed because no charges have been filed. The Bulgarian judicial offices then both the prosecution and the court have accepted that there is no crime, so the case is dismissed and from here follows something very important: there is no court order by the Military Court then in Sliven. It is true that in 2014 relatives of the deceased Turkish fisherman against Bulgaria have filed a case against Erdjan and others against Bulgaria............................................................................................. This case has been dismissed because it is accepted that this complaint is inadmissible, so at this time we do not have any court-martials or the Bulgarian court-martial, which was competent at the time, nor the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. In connection with the proceedings conducted in Turkey, which is conducted in general criminal order, in Bulgaria such proceedings have never been initiated at all, because no one has committed guilt to officials who in the circle of their office and their duties have protected the Bulgarian border. What we have obligations for is on the basis of the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Affairs 1959. On this basis, the court in Turkey has sent a request of jurisdiction in the District Court of Burgas, for the service of documents. This is the standard procedure for legal assistance by the Turkish court to our compatriots. What the Ministry of Justice has done so far, I am beginning to answer your specific questions. Last Saturday, on 13 October at my disposal, as the case is now being dealt with, you rightly said that it was postponed, but we have been in dialogue with these citizens, a meeting was held with the director of the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs, as well as with the expert responsible for international cooperation in criminal matters. The experts concerned have correctly provided the international acts relevant to the case in question. During the meeting the Bulgarian border guards had the opportunity to discuss with the experts what actions should be taken from now on. It is clear to you that the executive authority is not able to interfere directly with the work of the Bulgarian judicial authorities, nor can it interfere with the work of the specific court in Lozengrad. As an obligation to protect our citizens, we believe that, regardless of the legal aid procedure currently being implemented by the Burgas court, it is extremely important to ensure the protection of these compatriots in front of the court in Lozengrad. We held a meeting with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Todor Stoyanov and experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a proposal to which they responded to engage the consular services of Bulgaria in Turkey, to provide a list of law firms or lawyers to be provided to our respective citizens. They should choose a lawyer, and from now on we have had talks with the Ministry of Interior to ensure that they are supported in the defence. We all know it's going to be about money. We are in full coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Ministry of Interior, with the citizens themselves, and with their lawyers. On Wednesday, the time I was in the Legal Commission, one of them held a meeting with the relevant international directorate and its employees at the Ministry, so the road to be walked before them is clear to the Bulgarian citizens. I would like to dispel any doubts about the issue of possible extradition to the Republic of Turkey of our citizens. Absolutely! Bulgaria has signed the Convention to you it is known that it is not possible for these citizens of ours to be handed over to the Turkish country. It is true that we do not have a mechanism by which the Bulgarian state will end, as you ask me in your question, the case in Turkey. What we can do and do is they are informed, we are also in contact with their lawyers, it is the state to engage through its consular services. We have the Foreign Ministry's assurance that the consul will attend the court sessions and, of course, the protection that our lawyers cannot represent them there, but for this purpose they may choose from the list that the consuls will offer them, a person or persons of attorneys to protect them. That's what's been done so far. As far as I know, next week will have a meeting with the Ministry of Interior, so the Bulgarian state has not abdicated at any time. Earlier in the summer, they also had a meeting with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. We follow this case, which is unpleasant for our countrymen, understand them and do absolutely everything we can so that the process in Turkey ends with a good result.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u255	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Tishev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u256	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Thanks for the thorough answer, I think you needed it. However, if we want to be correct towards society, we must say that the activity that the Ministry of Justice has shown in the last week happened only after the four police officers contacted the media and requested a meeting with MPs in Burgas and from then on started a meeting with experts from the Ministry of Justice last Saturday, as well as other representatives of the state. My appeal to you as a representative of the government and to the entire government is as follows: it is clear that the state or executive power in Bulgaria cannot directly interfere with the justice system of Bulgaria, let alone Turkey. Since at least for us the case is political, the state must intervene on a political, diplomatic, of course, and on a legal level, because we have witnessed from previous years that this is, unfortunately, the only way for our compatriots to literally be saved. I will remind you of the case of the Bulgarian nurses in Libya who even received death sentences. Then the so-called silent diplomacy did not work, only after protests began in Bulgaria, abroad, after the government committed and firmly stood behind them, then intervened, you know, both France and Qatar, and we managed to save them. Another similar case of how the state could intervene in order to save an innocent citizen, you have only recently known about the case of the American pastor in Turkey, who also had a verdict. There it came to the imposition of penal duties, the refusal of military orders by Washington to Turkey, and eventually the pastor was returned. My appeal and request is that the state really intervene with all the power it has. Otherwise, we can give them any logistical support, I welcome and it is imperative for the state to bear the costs of legal protection in Turkey if the Turkish court eventually comes up with a criminal decree or judgment, it is clear that we will not extradite them, but these people become prisoners in their own country because they cannot leave the border. Wherever they come out, Turkey will ask to be picked up. They are still worried about leaving Bulgaria. I therefore appeal once again: my desire, my request and my insistence is full mobilisation and support from all state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u257	Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u258	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Tishev, Mrs. Vassileva, Mrs. Savateva as MPs from Burgas, with whom I am concerned about this case, if for the MPs it is clear only from the moment the citizens have addressed you, the Ministry of Justice has almost a year since last year, because the first legal aid request is from 2017, we are looking for options and ways to be useful to these people. It was important, therefore, that my response to the Ombudsman at the time she asked for information is to examine the legal framework in Turkey. It turns out that according to their Penal Code and their PPC, there is a legal figure that is not known to our justice system, the so-called suspended punishment. After fully examining the legal basis relevant to the case, we were prepared to tell them in detail how things were and what steps were. They themselves, I refer to the officials who have informed me, have said that for the first time they see the bilateral.. the contract that we have after the Convention, which is signed with a special opinion.............................. on the issue of handing Bulgarian citizens over to the Turkish country. It is important to me that, once we have examined the procedure, we have informed them, we are talking to their lawyers, we are also looking for a way for political assistance at the level of the Foreign Ministry, as well as from the Ministry of Interior. Two of them are still active employees, others have left the system, but it should be known that these are our compatriots, who in the circle of their office have protected the Bulgarian border, and Bulgaria, and the state institutions are obliged to ensure their security. We're doing it with the steps I've informed you about in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u259	Allow me to thank Mrs Tsetska Tsacheva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin about the inability of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to deal with the consequences of the declared plague of small ruminants in Bulgaria. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u260	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with the first question, which is no longer up to date, as some things have become clear, but still nothing prevents us from repeating some of the things. Before that, in relation to my previous question, I would like to clarify Mr. Porozhanov promised that the Inspectorate will check the actions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I have not seen a result, at least I have not been informed. A day after that, however, came out, I would say a very bold press release from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which states that everything is fine, very correctly the reports were sent. I recall that this is about misinformation, I would say inadequate, submitted to the World Organisation for Animal Health. In order not to be naked, at the end of my question I will present to Mr. Porozhanov both the two reports on which dates have been replaced and a letter from the Secretary-General of the Organisation, stating that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has requested a correction of the report which has been sent in advance. I start again with a press release, as the Food Safety Agency obviously believes that these press releases are a form of informing the Bulgarian society on key issues. In this press release, they say sanctions are coming, which are being prepared by the European Commission. The title itself, as I have asked in my question, demonstrates the Agency's inability to react adequately, announcing that the new sanctions of Bulgaria because of the boycott of the owners against the veterinary authorities. I suppose the Minister's reply will explain that it is not the boycott that is a problem, but the continued spread of the disease. What is more important, I would like Minister Porozhanov to explain what is the real reason for the actions taken by the European Commission, meanwhile these actions were taken, the decision was made to clarify what are the reasons for the refusal of the owners to allow their animals to euthanize themselves in Bolyarovo, or the continued spread of the disease, as the Agency continues to suggest that the reason is different. The measures taken by the Agency, which the Minister himself said were highly appreciated, very adequate, why did they not lead to this not only to be further limited and reduced sanctions, but, on the contrary, to extend these sanctions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u261	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin! Many questions and these mix in the exhibition you make, so it is difficult for me to distinguish them. Since we have been talking about them for a long time, in the next question again we are talking about the same topics, my recommendation, of course, you will not comply with it, is to bring these topics together so that we do not talk about them all the time. I guess those who listen to us are tired of it too. On 23 June 2018, Bulgaria notified the Commission and the other Member States of one outbreak of small ruminants plague on three holdings where the animals from these holdings graze together in the municipality of Bolyarovo, Yambol district in Bulgaria. On 28 June 2018, a second outbreak of the disease was announced in the region of Burgas. The measures provided for in EC Directive 92/19, in particular the destruction of infected herds and the establishment of protection and surveillance zones around outbreaks, have been adopted. The surveillance in the municipalities adjacent to the affected areas as well as in the municipalities located along the Union border with third countries was also strengthened. Large-scale serological studies have been undertaken in the 20km zone around the outbreaks. Some of the measures to address the disease have been taken. On 18 September 2018, Bulgaria notified the Commission and the other Member States of the results of those studies showing the presence of animals with antibodies to small ruminants in holdings located in areas where restrictive measures have already been introduced without taking into account clinical signs of the disease. Some of these holdings are very close to the border between the areas with restrictive measures and the rest of the territory of Bulgaria, where there have been no reported cases of this disease. Due to the location of seropositive animals and given the absence of clinical signs, it was necessary to extend the scope of the area imposing additional protective measures on small ruminants. Additional protective measures shall be introduced within the new designated area prohibiting the dispatch of consignments and certain products derived from minor ruminants in order to prevent and possibly spread of the disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u263	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will not stop asking these questions, as you never answer what they ask you. You've been telling me all these reports and orders since June. It's been a long time since June, a lot has changed. I asked you simply and clearly: are these actions of the European Commission directly related to the issue that remains unresolved to Annie Petrova's flock in Bolyarovo? Here I ask again: do you think that the closed herd of months, which is subject to destruction under the original order, will we soon talk about the other orders, as to whether it is possible, in which there is one confirmed sample, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency continues to talk about two, but one is confirmed, the other is questionable. The official reports say one sample. Is this flock the cause of these new cases that have been noted? You're talking about antibodies. In fact, nothing is different from those registered in Annie Petrova's herd in Bolyarovo. Since you didn't answer my question, I did my best to see what the European Commission's decision said. It states that, according to the results of that surveillance, animals with antibodies to small ruminants have been identified in holdings located in areas where restrictive measures have already been introduced and so on. That is, in no way are these actions of the European Commission related to the fact that the flock of Annie Petrova has not yet been destroyed and the continuing suggestions in this direction aim only to create additional tension and negativity in the owners of the region against this woman, who has every reason to try to save her animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u265	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u266	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vigenin, what you just said was contained in the second part of my answer. I think I just answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u267	Thank you. There is a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin concerning the alarming information contained in a letter from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to Sotir Tsatsarov, Chief Prosecutor, and Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, there is little intercession in the issues, but since there is always some development, we cannot talk every Friday, but it still makes sense to specify these issues. In the letter from the Executive Director Damian Iliev, signed by his replacement, this is some systematic practice of Damian Iliev to avoid personally signing these orders, this does not remove responsibility from him, of course The results obtained were confirmed by the reference laboratory in Montpellier, France and it can definitely be said that there is an ongoing spread of the disease, covering new territories around the town of Bolyarovo, sites in the municipality of Sredets, Burgas; the municipality of Elhovo, Yambol; and the municipality of Svilengrad, Haskovo. The letter continues with the finding that the only source of the infection is the specified object in the town of Bolyarovo, referring to the same herd. Given that the spread has been confirmed in other municipalities, I do not know how it turns out that this remains the only herd that is the source of the disease, but this is just a comment. My question is: if the spread of the disease in neighbouring municipalities is confirmed, as the signal says, what measures have been taken by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to deal with the new outbreaks? What is the explanation if they are not taken, and if they are taken, why hasn't information been provided about this to the international partners or to the Bulgarian citizens? If the information sent to the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice is false, who and how will take responsibility for misleading key Bulgarian institutions? As it turned out at a later stage, the information has been confirmed, it has also been confirmed in your reply to our colleague, but the other question remains: since new outbreaks and new cases have been confirmed, why have no measures been taken by the Agency, except that they have initiated another extension of the restriction by the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u269	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Minister Porozhanov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, I'm not going to read what they wrote to me. I'm going to get to the point. The only finding in the second round of samples that were over eight thousand, as you know, for about 200, in about 100 herds, there are samples for seropositive animals with antibodies. No positive samples, no diseased animals, so no measures were taken by order of the Food Agency for the destruction of herds. What is written in the letter, I would not like to comment, let the recipient decide whether or not the information was correct. Of course, I cannot say that I do not share at first reading that a flock can be the distributor of such a disease in these areas, as this cannot be demonstrated either way or in the other direction. It is undisputed that information on antibodies is the main reason why the European Commission should expand the scope of restrictions on the three areas, because there are similar identified animals with antibodies in Haskovo territory as well. What the Food Agency is doing right now is to seize these animals, to compensate the farmers, to continue the samples, so that we can see in the coming weeks and months until there are restrictions with the order of the European Commission whether we have continued the spread of antibodies because we have no mortality, there are no other signs available of the disease in the other areas in order to remove the restrictions in these areas. The bad thing at the moment is that at least in flocks of sheep and goats now is not the productive period, we do not have active milking, and the fruits are not currently for realization, so that there is some serious loss to be suffered by farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u271	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, the word is yours again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u272	Dear Minister, what you're saying must be the actual situation. I feel some regret because of the fact that I cannot talk here with the Executive Director of the Agency, as we can say that this whole circle of problems and the mess that was involved stems from the activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I realize that you are not directly dealing with this issue, but you are the political person responsible for the Agency's activities, so my questions are for you and I hope that I can also get adequate answers. How do the results of these 256 samples differ in those three municipalities of the results that were obtained in previous outbreaks where the animals were already destroyed? Surely there is no difference with the results that have been obtained on a sheep, stressing an animal in the flock of Annie Petrova. What are the reasons why the same results in one case lead to the destruction of animals, quarantine and so on, and in the other case to stand and wonder what to do. Because if we start killing right, like we wanted to prevent the previous cases, there will be no animals left in the whole region, and apparently these animals are not dangerous. Annie Petrova's herd has been closed for three months, no new cases. There were several dead animals that were not categorically proven to be from overeating, but it was certainly proven that they did not die from the plague of small ruminants, since there was no such clinic. In the whole case, since then, there has been a single confirmed dead animal, allegedly from the small ruminants plague in the village of Voden. From then on, there is no case of dead animals from this disease at all in the region. So I wonder why the approach is one in one case, another in the other. Speaking of notification, I would like to tell you, I do not know how you have notified the European Commission and the partners, but on the site of the Organisation for Animal Health, the World Organisation, where information should be released immediately. The last report was September 13th, which means the two I gave you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u273	Time, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u274	I'm done. I will leave you here the Report, which appeared on the organization's website on October 15th, has absolutely nothing in it that is certainly an incredible contribution to information that can be provided by the National Agency to the whole world, something that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u275	Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u276	I can't agree with you. You are certainly trying to make a suggestion that in the same cases it has acted differently. One is positive for small ruminants plague, the other is antibody samples. If you wish, I can arrange for you to visit the laboratory with my Deputy Minister, who is a specialist in these matters, and with a representative of BABBH, to give you a detailed overview of the way the samples are done and the way they are found negative or positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u277	There is a question from Irena Anastasova about problems in the implementation of the milk and dairy delivery scheme for students in educational institutions. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! On 23 May 2017, the Council of Ministers decided to amend the Regulation on the terms and conditions for implementing the schemes for the provision of fruit and vegetables and milk products in schools and kindergartens. I put aside the fact that this item was not announced on the agenda of the sitting or then announced in the decisions. I also put aside the change that led to the emergence of a monopoly in the supply of dairy products. That's why there were warnings, now we're talking facts. My question is to schools, to kindergartens, to children. What happened? A large part of the institutions that conducted the selection procedures of supply companies notified according to the requirements of the State Fund. As it turns out, according to the changes in the Regulation, this does not mean anything. I quote you part of a letter from the Regional Management of Education "Sofia," which says: "The Director of the State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2 of the provisions of that regulation, i.e. to fill out a correct declaration indicating the applicants they ranked under each of the schemes, and to indicate all the proposals received by other producers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Educational Institutions shall provide all information on the selection of the applicant selected by them under the State Fund schemes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Well, they presented it, and as they say, the result is: you inform us that you have chosen a company X, but we at the Fund of Agriculture are telling you that the supplies will make them a company Y that we have chosen. Congratulations! As a result, a company appears that dumps the products at the entrance of the school or kindergarten and leaves. From now on, let the directors think about where they're gonna be kept, who's gonna hand them out, and all kinds of questions. I ask: when you wrote the changes, when you proposed them, when you voted them, did you ask the college, did you agree with anyone? If not with them, how did you communicate with the Ministry of Education and Science? Do you know what the results are? Therefore, my question is: what is the analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests on the implementation of the said Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the implementation of a scheme for the provision of milk and milk products in educational establishments, what problems are found and what will the Ministry take?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u279	The weather, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u280	How many schools and kindergartens have deposited refusal to participate in the scheme, and what are the reasons for this? Thank you, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u281	Thank you. Minister Porozhanov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u282	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, in 2018, amendments to the Ordinance on the Terms and Conditions for Implementation of Fruit and Vegetables Schemes, of Milk and Dairy Products in Educational Institutions "School fruit" scheme and a Scheme "School milk" which, while maintaining the principle of priority for producers of fruit, vegetables, milk and milk products when selecting applicants in the scheme, extended the requirements for producers so as to prioritize local products of Bulgarian origin and to specify the criteria for the choice of applicant in a way that ensures the implementation of the objectives of the scheme and creates conditions for equalisation of large and small producers. The amendments are aimed at defining clear and fair criteria for choosing a supplier from educational establishments in case the school or kindergarten chooses to participate in the scheme through its supplier. Where the applicant of the institution is the provider, the State Fund shall check whether the applicant has been selected in accordance with the regulations and whether the selection criteria have been met. If discrepancies are identified, the Paying Agency shall immediately select the applicant supplier. The professional choice shall be made between the applicants from which the educational establishment has received proposals for the delivery of milk, dairy products, fruit and vegetables. Applicants who have dropped out of office selection have raised questions about the procedure applied by the Fund. It should be noted that when examining the applications for approval of providers of school schemes, the State Fund of Education was guided and strictly complied with the criteria and requirements set out in the Ordinance. As of 17 October this year, 54 refusals to participate in school schemes from educational institutions from all over the country have been received in the State Fund. The reasons for refusals from all over the country of educational institutions are different, most often related to their inability to fulfil the obligations associated with carrying out the activities of acceptance, verification and distribution of the products to students. The practice of implementing the schemes shows that schools with a higher number of deliveries face difficulties in dealing with these activities on their own, as they do not have sufficient staff. As a result of these difficulties and after meetings with the Ministry of Education and Science, we proposed optimizing the process of distribution of products in schools. The draft decree of the Council of Ministers on amendment and supplement of the Ordinance provides for the possibility that activities in the territory of schools may be carried out by a person with whom the selected applicant has concluded a contract agreed with the director of the school concerned. The possibility for suppliers to pay with the person under the contract is envisaged, and the costs will be part of the aid received by the suppliers. The funds to secure this expenditure will be within the limits of the budget defined under the scheme. The project is published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Public Consultation Portal. The schemes have been successfully implemented for the eighth consecutive year in the case of increasing public interest and proven benefits for building a healthy diet for children. So far, 3400 schools for nearly 470 000 children and students have been approved for this school year for participation in the scheme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u283	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u284	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Yes, the scheme has been successfully implemented for eight years. I myself, as principal of a major school, have also worked on this scheme. I asked this question after examining the opinions of many colleagues from my meetings in the country. I want to tell you that the optimism that you have here is not responding to reality. The main problem remains that there is a gap between suppliers. It is clear that there will be a gap, but this problem must also be solved with the companies that are tenants, such as the school chairs. In any Bulgarian school food products can be provided under certain conditions that are regulated for which they monitor regional health inspections. We cannot in schools meet these requirements if this food distribution does not happen in school chairs. These are the only premises that meet these requirements. It is practically so that the directors insist that the suppliers companies negotiate with the companies that rent the chairs. If they make a deal, fine, but they don't have to make a deal. They may not agree. Then what does it come out of? Okay, so you've decided that a man under contract with the CEO of the supplier company is going to deal. This is also impossible for schools, because we do not have people who own health books, and we are not obliged in Bulgarian schools to have them, and these products can only be distributed by such people. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay, there are changes that, for example, facilitate this process, but how do we facilitate the process of storing these products? Schools must have equipped refrigerators, refrigerators. They do, but they're owned by the companies they run and rented the chairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u285	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u286	I'm sorry, one second. What I must tell you is that we have information that schools that have refused participation are constantly being harassed and attacked by some companies. I don't want to quote here which companies, although they are known to the college, who continue to pressure them and ask them why they quit. They just decided and gave up. It's not the companies who'll want to account for the directors why they gave up. I would like to say to you that the difficulties are serious, that the Regulation should be reviewed and not reviewed only according to the interests of suppliers companies, but mainly with the participation of the Ministry of Education and Directors of Education and kindergartens to be reviewed in order to see what are the conditions in schools and how this good initiative can work in practice. I understand that you follow the interests of Bulgarian producers. This is good, but in schools and in the education system we first monitor the interests of the children, the college and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u287	Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u288	Thank you. One further comment outside the formal response. So far, the situation has been as follows: the directors, if you were the principal of a school, were single-handedly determining who to deliver. Single, no matter who shows up and who doesn't show up! They had the right to make that choice. We've been debating this issue. There was a statement from BSP and to me it is inexplicable, but there was a declaration in parliament on this issue. We had 96% vendors - 4% producers in the field of fruit and vegetables - and 91.9% in the case of milk and milk products. You know very well that these products are distributed on the day. They are distributed as soon as they arrive, because two days a week should have dairy products, two days fruit or vegetable. So they are not stored long-term and do not have to be stored in cameras. [[(Replication by the National Representative Irena Anastasova:]] Well, if the afternoon shift starts at 6:00, maybe eight o'clock. In general, they are given to children up to IV grade. Therefore, it should be clear when children up to 4th grade are at school, whether they are before noon or afternoon. Therefore, the delivery must comply with whether to come before noon or to be in the afternoon. You know very well that part of the resistance is also related to the well established relationships between previous suppliers and designated schools. There's no question about it. You know damn well there aren't chairs everywhere. What do you do where there's no cafeteria? That's where they have to cancel the deliveries?! The formal motive that there is no one to give away is given this option at the moment to give the opportunity to be a person appointed by the director, whether he will be the one operating with the chair, it is already a decision that will be taken on the spot. So we give this opportunity, since this is a big problem in the distribution of food. That's my comment for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next, a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev on the structure of the value of gross production of the agricultural sector for the period 2014 - 2016. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u290	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The value of the production of the agricultural sector for 2016 at current producer prices amounted to 7 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the It is formed by the value of the production of plant production with a share of 67%, the production of the livestock production with a share of 23,3%, agricultural services with a share of 6%, and production of non-dividible production activities with a share of 3%. The Annual Report on the State and Development of Agriculture, the so-called Agricultural Report for 2017, takes into account that the trend of growth in the share of crop farming in the value of gross agricultural production continued in 2016 at the expense of the share of livestock farming. The share of crop farming during the year is already nearly three times that of livestock farming. What are the data for 2014, 2015 and 2016 from the production of plant production.. 64%, 65% and 67%, that is to say we have an increase in the share of plant farming at the expense of livestock farming. Production from livestock production for 2014 was 26%, for 2015 decreased to 25.3% and for 2016 was 23.3%. Dear Minister, you and I at last parliamentary control have spoken that agricultural policy in Bulgaria has been wrong from the very beginning of our accession to the European Union, i.e. the so-called monocultural production of large grain producers is being stimulated at the moment. Here, the data and the numbers show this very well. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what is the proportion of crop farming compared to the share of livestock farming for 2017 and the first six months of 2018, and what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u291	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u292	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Georgiev, according to the forecast data on economic accounts in the "Rural holding" sector of the National Statistical Institute for 2017, published in February this year, the share of plant farming in the "Rural holding" sector is 66,6%, of the "Rural holding" industry is 24,5%, agricultural services - 6%, non-farming and production activities - 3%. According to the previous year, an increase in the proportion of livestock subsectors from 23,6% to 24,5% is reported and the proportion of plant subsectors from 67,7% to 66,6% is reduced accordingly. At this stage there is no forecast data available for 2018 as regards the economic accounts for agriculture. In view of the specific nature of agricultural production and in particular the long production cycle, no indicative comparison could be made in plant farming at this stage between the contribution of the two sub-areas for 2018. Indeed, economic indicators show that there have been persistent disproportions in the development of the two sub-areas of agriculture, which is why the potential of the whole industry cannot be fully realised. This has an impact on the accumulation of many factors, both from the distant past, from the years of transition and over the past decade. Accession to the European Union has provided a number of incentives and opportunities for the development of agriculture, but at the same time the implementation of some of the support mechanisms, particularly direct area payments, have had a contradictory impact on the industry. Significant growth has achieved the production and production of oil crops, but sub-sectors such as livestock and fruit and vegetable production have fallen behind. In addition, EU membership has placed the sector in a highly competitive environment both in terms of productivity, quality and efficiency and in terms of the level of support with public funds. In order to overcome the imbalance between subsectors, a serious analysis and an overview of the implementation of the instruments and mechanisms for support with European national funds was made. Citing the experience and errors of the previous programming period, for the current programming period by 2020, there are significantly more incentives to support the sub-sectors You know the parameters. At present, the Ministry has taken a number of measures in line with the capabilities of the national budget and the framework of interventions from which the country can benefit in the implementation of the CAP. In order to improve the sustainability of vulnerable and sensitive sectors, support for livestock production, fruit and vegetables production, protein crops and cotton has been provided as of 2015. The country shall make use of the maximum eligible amount for these funds of 15% of the direct payment package. In 2017, 224 million were granted. lv. for tied support, of which 119, nearly 120 for livestock. The national budget shall provide transitional national aid for sensitive areas in livestock farming, livestock farming, sheep farming, goat farming and tobacco production. For 2017 the livestock sector was granted 75 million in the sector of Tutun. It is essential to increase the competitiveness and market orientation of the sub-sectors of agriculture that financial support for the realization of investment projects through the Rural Development Programme. As a result of the regulatory framework for the implementation of sub-measure 4.1. "Support for investments for agricultural holdings's selection criteria giving greater weight to priority sectors and sectors, the largest share of the contracts concluded under the sub-measure have Support is also provided under a number of State aid schemes that are primarily targeted at livestock farming. Of the 119 million paid. lv. For State aid for 2017, nearly 104 million lv. have been obtained from different directions of the livestock sector. For 2018, 20% more funds for State aid in livestock farming are provided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Yeah, you were quoting data. I am glad, however, that you have correctly quoted the figures for 2017 for cereals production as well. I expected that, at least for wheat, because before my question, before the parliamentary control, I received a written reply from you on croped areas, production and average yield, and here I would like to assure you that the data given for 2015, 2016 and 2017 in the production of wheat as harvested areas also increased, production increased and average yield increased. Unfortunately, however, in the case of maize that relates to livestock farming as a feed-related product, these figures and parameters of harvest, average yield and production are reduced. That is why I am telling you that there is a misguided agricultural policy that is a policy for major producers, so-called monocultural production. We are not talking about a policy on food for the population. Not for nothing in Germany, the ministry is called the Ministry of Food, Food, Agriculture and Food Control. In Bulgaria is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, but in the interest of the truth in food, what we also talked about with colleague Christian Vigenin is control. Unfortunately, however, the policy our country has wagered is, again, wrong, wrong. A policy that stimulates large grain producers, which does not meet the criteria for a fair distribution of euro funds to small, small producers, to cooperatives. I therefore hope that, with the new common agricultural policy to come, with the policy that Bulgaria will have in this direction, the distortions will be corrected. I understand that you cannot, as Minister of Agriculture, but it is a long-term policy to do so, but I do not see the government's policy and especially from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to small and medium-sized producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u295	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u296	Surely those in the questions and in the lines you have are not in line with the answers. It is very clear: we said that there are no additional preferences to grain production. Yes, that direct area payments, as it is, European policy benefits them, so absolutely everything else is directed towards sensitive sectors. It is not a coincidence that the investment projects are in sensitive sectors, that state aid is in sensitive sectors. What they say is due to them under the CAP is not, in fact, the leading fact that they are so profitable. You know that very well. They're profitable because the conjuncture allows them to. You also know very well that the Ministry does not do the crop rotation of producers.. whether they will make wheat, barley, maize, sunflower or so on, they are influenced, of course, by the agrotechnical requirements and the market. The wheat areas are almost the same in the last two years, I don't remember for 2015. The yield for this year was slightly weaker due to the rains, but prices went up. The good thing is coming up, I and the previous parliamentary control have hinted to you, I'm already asking you to meet me because there are interesting things to tell you. Corn, I hope, will be a deficit in the coming years, in terms of feed production options. Other capacity capacities, which are also in an investment plan in Razgrad, you know, the development of investment capacities. So I want to assure you that what is possible is currently being done. The national resource of these 300 million per year is directed precisely to sensitive sectors. At the moment, our main topic is to make a lot of talks with all the other member states, it is to be able to protect it at a higher percentage, so that we can develop, even though the slight trend of improving the sectors, especially the fruit and vegetables, and, of course, the Life Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u297	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. A question follows again from the National Representative Christian Vigenin on the deliberate refusal of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to take a second sample for the presence of small ruminants plague from an establishment in the village of Bolyarovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u298	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, before I get to the point, however, because you said that I was making suggestions, this is what you say on October 5th to colleagues Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva, by the way, a question that is not on the website of parliament. I don't know why it's hidden, I don't know what the government is hiding. If the services of parliament can check why this issue is not at all missing as a question on the list to Mr. Porozhanov, there is no text. It's 15 days later today, and it should be there a long time ago. So you say, "Let's see what we do with these 260 animals with antibodies." I don't think there should be any way to destroy herds or anything like that. We need to see the animals that have the antibodies and how to approach them, because they're virus carriers. Everyone with antibodies is a virus carrier. There's no difference between these animals you're talking about here and those of Annie Petrova. By letter of 28 September, the owner of a livestock farm in the town of Bolyarovo, in which a positive sample was registered in July for the presence of small ruminants plague according to the results of the laboratories in Bulgaria and in the reference in France, invites the Regional Food Safety Directorate, Yambol, to take a second sample from the herd. Accordingly, ODBH "Yambol" refuses to take a second sample, although he has been insisting on it since July. A few days later, an order was issued to delete the establishment and eradicate the animals. The liquidation of animals this time, not because of the presence of infection, but because of the withdrawal of the registration of the site, gives the impression of a targeted search for grounds, possible errors in BABBH's approach so far to be fully covered. When I say 'possible', I'd say 'obvious' sooner. Do you support this decision by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the district of Yambol, respectively, to refuse to take a second sample which would give a final answer to the question of the suspicions of small ruminants plague in the herd? Do you intend to take steps to solve the problem permanently, including looking for the reasons for the entry of the infection into Bulgaria, which have not been found so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u299	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u300	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, whether I support or not the actions of the Food Agency, you know very well the Animal Health Act. More or less the functions of the Minister of Agriculture are to be able to offer the Prime Minister a proposal for an executive director and for the release of an executive director. My function is not to support any action or sanction any action of the Food Agency. I assume you've met the letter that was sent that they wanted to take a second sample with?! It was not a letter: yes, we agree to take a second sample, it was a letter with numerous conditions how to do so. Apparently, the Food Agency has determined that under such conditions and pressure it will not take a second sample. So that's my answer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I suggest you, Mr. Porozhanov, resign yourself by not being able to control the Agency. If you want to control it, propose changes to the Law, and if you don't leave, take Damian Iliev with you and things might work out. Why owners and citizens in general and the whole region has no confidence in the institution BABBH may already become clear. As long as there is no such trust, you will not be able to perform your functions effectively. However, you, or particularly Damian Iliev, can not have such confidence in the region after all the mistakes that have been made. I will put them all on one list, although I am not a specialist, but I have done my best, unlike you perhaps to go into all the details of this problem, to consult experts and to see that a number of errors have been made from the very beginning, including with regard to this Veterinary Medical Institute and the laboratory, for which, by the way, I will ask you an additional question further. Here, I can tell you what more question you're going to get. How can people trust that adequate samples will be taken in the way that the District Directorate and the BABBH want, given that for the first samples they received some flying protocols, in which the Director of the Institute and the laboratory respectively the same person, the one is signed with one signature, the other is signed with another signature, and don't send me to train me there in virology, and until they are clear is the professor in question, is he an associate professor, as is present in various documents, one for the outside, another for the inside, and specify the signature what it is? I suggest you take it a little more seriously if you have to manually manage this process, as you are looking for a solution for these 256 animals, to cancel the order by which you want to delete the establishment in Bolyarovo, to see what can be done if you have to take a sample of each animal in the herd. If you confirm the presence of antibodies in some of the sheep, they should be removed, as you probably intend to do with the other animals and prove in the end that these animals have the right to live and this woman will remain with her livelihood instead of abusing her and looking for a way to prove that power is right and she will still kill those animals. Because Grandma Dora's flock could have been saved if you had shown a little more creativity. In her, there were no positive samples at all, and all the other animals in the village were killed. In general, I would like to tell you that on this subject I will continue to ask questions. One of them will also be linked to your order of June 6th, with which you designate this laboratory as a reference for small ruminants plague and unknown how only two weeks after you have decided that such a reference laboratory is necessary, the plague appears in Bulgaria. All the questions worth thinking about and thinking about together.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u303	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I guess it's a follow-up topic. Mr. Minister, today is your last chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u304	Thank you. The theme is suggestive, it is not continued and will continue to infinity. I am extremely pleased that you are constantly asking for my resignation and I will feel the absence of such a statement from you if it is absent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-19.u305	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mr. Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question for this week. The next meeting was held Wednesday 24 October 2018, at 9.00 p.m. Thank you all for your patience. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
