ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'm gonna read you a few messages. On 4 December 2018, a Draft Law on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in 2021. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs on the grounds of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform the National Assembly of the position of the Council of Ministers adopted by Decision of 21 November 2018 in support of the achievement of an Agreement on a regulated withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the framework for future relations. On 25 November 2018, the European Council approved the draft agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, as well as the draft political declaration setting out the framework for future relations attached to the letter. The letter, together with an electronic medium attached to it containing two documents, has been sent to all the parliamentary groups, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON PERSONAL AID. A joint project drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2018 with importers: Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, 2 July 2018; Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 4 July 2018. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Lyubomira Arshinkova, Chief Expert at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u3	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 164 MPs: 157 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u4	Report on a joint bill, No 853-08-37, adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2018. Draft on personal assistance submitted by Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, and Draft on personal assistance submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly. The Personal Aid Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. The law regulates the terms and conditions for the provision and use of personal assistance by people with disabilities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The law aims to provide personal assistance to help disabled people exercise their fundamental rights, to have choices, independent lives, active involvement and participation in society and access to services and activities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. Personal assistance is a mechanism for supporting people with disabilities to exercise their rights, to participate fully in society, to carry out activities meeting their individual needs of a personal, domestic or social nature and to overcome barriers to their functional limitations. The mechanism ensures that people with disabilities are able to choose from whom, when, where and how to carry out the activities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The provision of personal assistance is based on the principles laid down in the Law on Persons with Disabilities, Efficiency and Efficiency of the Provision of Aid and Respect for Personal Space, Dignity, Self-Alignity and Independence of Persons with Disabilities. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 5 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u5	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the name of Chapter One, the editorials of art. Art. 1, art. Art. 2, Art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 of the Commission Report and the rejection of art. 5. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u6	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following title of Chapter Two: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6 which becomes art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The state policy for providing personal assistance to people with disabilities is implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (2) The provision of personal assistance shall be carried out by providers of personal assistance under the order of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 2 and the version of art. 6 which becomes art. 5 on the Commission report. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u8	Under art. 7 has a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova, Nikolai Ivanov, Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva, Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Kristina Sidorova, Teodora Halacheva, Tsvetan Topchiev, Irena Anastasova and Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 is created t. 5a: 5a. maintain the National Electronic Information System for Assistant Candidates; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7 which becomes Art. 6: Art. 6. The Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency shall: 1. plan, distribute, control and account for the funding of personal aid; 2. issue mandatory methodological guidelines for the provision of personal assistance; the methodological guidelines shall be published on the Agency's website; 3. participate in the process of involving users of personal assistance in the personal assistance mechanism; 4. enter legal persons under art. 18, para. 2 in the register of providers of social services under art. 18, para. 2 of the Social Assistance Act; 5. an annual report by 31 March on the number of users of personal assistance by age, residence, number of approved hours and the amount of means of payment of personal assistance, as well as an analysis and evaluation of the objectives achieved in the provision of personal assistance; 6. exercise control over the provision of personal assistance and the spending of the funds allocated; 7. implements other powers provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u9	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u10	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The proposal we make in art. 7 is related to the commitments of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance, in particular the Agency for Persons with Disabilities or the new one that will be established............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We propose to supplement the commitments of this agency with this: it to support the National Electronic Information System for Candidates for Assistants. Why are we making this offer? Because very often it is necessary for those wishing to use this service in a home environment to use the current texts of the texts that we have proposed in the Personal Aid Act to go to the respective municipalities so that they can benefit from the lists of personal assistants who want to provide such personal assistance. Very often, those who want to use the home service are required to travel a certain distance in order to reach the municipal administration. We believe that it is extremely important, and I do not see what the problem is to ultimately maintain such a National Information System for applicants for assistants, so that from every place in the country anyone who wishes to use such personal assistance can somehow see in the register which population there are wishing to be personal assistants and to ease this walking, this bureaucracy, to the respective municipal administrations. I therefore call on all of you to accept our proposal, because I think it is really justified, for the benefit of those who wish to use personal help. If we look at the provisions of art. 31 Where we place the commitments of municipalities, we see what municipalities will do with the lists of personal assistants. They will maintain some formal lists that no one will have electronic access to, so through the National Information System I think we will greatly ease the opportunities of people who want to use personal assistants to notify themselves in this way and to facilitate access. I urge you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u12	Dear Madam President, dear Minister of Labour and Social Policy, honourable Members! We do not accept this proposal of colleagues Zhekova and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and because there is no need to create a national register for the assistants. Absolutely not! Who needs such a register to register assistants at national level? Usually assistants become the closest people, relatives, relatives of the disabled person. If there is such a register, will a person who is a candidate for assistant, for example from the municipality of Ruse become an assistant for example in the municipality of Banite, Smolyan district? It's absolutely pointless! Moreover, in art. 6, p. 4 the Agency for Social Assistance shall keep a register of legal persons carrying out the activities of providing personal assistance and also in art. 21, para. 1, t. 7 it is said that the mayor of the municipality keeps an up-to-date list of candidates for assistants and their professional experience, so we have good reasons and arguments not to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u14	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Most probably, dear Mrs. Angelova, you cannot look into the depth of our proposal because, if you remember, during all the protests of the mothers of children with disabilities, most of them said that they needed a personal assistant externally so that they could go to work so that they could carry out other activities and thus support their household. It is not always a common need to use personal help through this personal assistance to be carried out by a loved one or a relative. I have worked in a small municipality for a long time and I have been the chairman of such a commission under the Project "Independent Life" and I want to tell you that 80% of the people who are personal assistants are not related to the people who need personal help, so do not limit the opportunity only in the family. Mrs. Angelova, in no way with what you are currently regulating in art. 6, and with this public register that will have it, the legal persons who will carry out this activity will still be hindered by all people who want to use assistant services because it is necessary to go to the relevant Social Assistance Directorate or to the relevant municipality, where there is an up-to-date list and hence to inform whether there is a personal assistant who has stated a desire to be one when one is not found. Therefore, our proposal is to have such a national information system so that people with remote access have information about people who want to be personal assistants. I don't see what the problem is with this proposal being accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Will there be a hole, Mrs. Angelova? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, your proposal is not properly structured. You have written in your proposal to keep a national register in the Agency for Social Assistance, but what should this register contain? You said you didn't say you didn't say you didn't. This register that you are proposing has not indicated what to contain, what database, what information, who will be useful to, who will lead it and so on. Therefore, with the arguments I have made in my speech, we cannot accept your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: 39, against 49, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 7 which becomes Art. 6 on the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u18	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 7. Art. 7. The Directors of the "Social Assistance' at the Agency for Social Assistance: 1. organize the preparation of individual assessments of the needs of personal assistance according to Chapter 3 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities; 2. monitor the personal assistance provided and the spending of the funds allocated; if necessary, inform the Inspectorate of the Agency for Social Assistance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 8. Art. 8. (1) User of personal assistance is a person with disabilities, resulting in limitations in his ability to self-service in everyday life and to depend on foreign aid to compensate for the functional deficit and to provide support for the exercise of his fundamental rights and full participation in society. (2) Where a user of personal assistance is a minor or placed under full detention, he shall be represented by his legal representative and, where he is a minor or placed under a limited detention, the consent of his legal representative shall be sought. (3) The user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under para. 2: 1. select assistants; 2. participate in the negotiation of employment conditions; 3. participate in the management and control of the type and duration of work; 4. sign the monthly report of the assistant for the hours worked by him; 5. notify the personal assistance provider in writing of a conflict with the assistant. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 9. Art. 9. (1) User of personal assistance may be a disabled child who receives monthly benefits under art. 8e of the Family Aid Act for children, or a person receiving a supplement for foreign assistance under art. 103 of the Social Security Code. (2) A user of personal assistance may also be a user of social services in the community, except for social services in the community of resident type and in specialized institutions. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10: Art. 10. A user of personal assistance may also be a disabled foreigner who is authorised for long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, a foreigner with disabilities who has been granted asylum, refugee status or humanitarian status, a foreigner with disabilities benefiting from temporary protection and a person for whom this is provided by an international contract to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, provided that the degree of permanently reduced performance or the type and extent of disability are determined by the order of the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under art. 12 has a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic position in art. 21, para. 2, p. 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 12 and proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 21, para. 2, p. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u19	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 8 which becomes Art. 7); the name of Chapter 3; the version of art. 9 which becomes Art. Article 8; version of Art. 8 10, which becomes art. Article 9; version of Art. 9 Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10, and the rejection of the proposal of Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, as it is reflected in its systematic place, and the rejection of art. 12, which is also reflected in its systematic place of art. 21, para. 2, p. 8. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u20	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. The mechanism of personal assistance is based on state-sponsored financial support, individual needs and choice of disabled people. Under art. 14 has a proposal of Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14, which becomes art. 12: Art. 12. (1) Personal assistance shall be provided on the basis of an individual assessment of the needs and a direction issued in accordance with Chapter 3 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities. (2) The number of hours of personal assistance shall be determined in the direction under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities on the basis of four grades as follows: 1. the first degree of moderate dependence/difficults in case of aid for the implementation of various activities in everyday life from several times per month or the need for limited support for personal autonomy; 2. second degree of severe dependence/disadvantages if assistance is needed to carry out various activities in everyday life up to twice a day or the need for limited support for personal autonomy; 3. a third degree of very difficult dependence/disability if assistance is needed to carry out various activities in everyday life not more than four times a day or the need for limited support for personal autonomy; 4. fourth degree of total dependence/difficults in case of assistance and permanent support from another person for the implementation of various activities in everyday life more than four times a day due to the complete loss of physical, mental, intellectual or sensory ownership. There is a proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. 15 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 13: Art. 13. (1) A person with a disability who wishes to be given personal assistance shall submit to him personally, through a person authorised by him or through a person under art. 8, para. 2 application - declaration on a model for providing personal assistance. In the application, the person declares that he does not receive any other support to meet the same needs and indicates an assistant. Where the application does not indicate an assistant, the provider of personal assistance may propose an assistant to the disabled person. The application shall be accompanied by the heading under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities with a fixed number of hours. (2) Where a user of personal assistance is a disabled child who receives monthly benefits under art. 8d, para. 5, t. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children in the application declaration under para. 1 The applicant gives consent up to 380 BGN. from the aid, the specific amount corresponds to the specified number of hours in the individual needs assessment, to be transferred to the mayor of the municipality by the Social Assistance Agency, following the conclusion of the contract of employment and the designation of an assistant to the disabled child. The funds are at the expense of the annual determined by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria amount of the monthly aid under art. 8d, para. 5, t. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children and for the hours determined in the direction of art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities. A copy of the application shall be sent by service to the Agency for Social Assistance. On the basis of the consent in the application, the Agency for Social Assistance shall transfer the amount to the mayor of the municipality. (3) When a user of personal assistance receives a supplement for foreign assistance under art. 103 of the Social Security Code in the application under para. 1 The applicant consents to transfer the supplement to the Agency for Social Assistance from the National Insurance Institute after the conclusion of the employment contract and the designation of the assistant to the disabled person. A copy of the application shall be sent by service to the National Insurance Institute. On the basis of the agreement in the application, the Agency for Social Assistance shall transfer the funds received for the addition to the Mayor of the municipality. (4) When the number of hours determined in the direction under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities is greater than the number of hours paid by the funds under para. 2 or 3, the provider of personal assistance shall provide the user of personal assistance with the full number of hours set in the direction. (5) The user of personal assistance shall continue to benefit from the monthly aid or supplement under para. 2 or 3 if the provider of personal assistance cannot enter into a contract with an assistant. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 14: Art. 14. (1) The documents referred to in art. 13, para. 1 shall be submitted to the mayor of the municipality at the current address of the disabled person. The documents may be submitted in person by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a licensed postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No would be the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) No 912/2014', and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. Documents may also be accepted in the home of the disabled person with a medical need. (2) The mayor of the municipality shall give the applicant a 7-day period for their removal upon finding incompleteness in the documents. (3) Within 7 days of receipt of the documents under para. 1 or expiry of the term under para. 2, after checking compliance with the requirements of the law, the mayor of the municipality shall prepare the conclusion of an agreement between the user, the assistant and the provider of personal assistance. (4) The order and time limit for the granting and use of personal assistance as well as the rights and obligations of the parties shall be laid down in the agreement under para. 3. (5) Within 7 days of the conclusion of the agreement under para. 3 The provider of personal assistance shall enter into an employment contract with the assistant. (6) The Agreement, respectively, shall be amended in the event of a change of one of the Parties. Under art. 16 has a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov: Art. 16... is The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 16 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter IV to the vote; the version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. Article 11; the version of Article 11. 14, which becomes art. Article 12; version of Art. 15 which becomes Art. 13 of the Commission Report; new Art. Article 14 and the rejection of Article 14 16. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u22	Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 17 to be rejected. Under art. 18 has a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 18 to be rejected. Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 19 to be rejected. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 20 to be rejected. Under art. 21 has a proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 21 to be rejected. Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 22 to be rejected. Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 23 to be rejected. Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 15: Art. 15. (1) In the event of a change of circumstances relating to the provision and use of personal assistance, the user of personal assistance authorised by him or the person referred to in art. 8, para. 2 informs the provider of personal assistance within 7 days of the occurrence of the change. The notification shall be submitted in person by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a authorised postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No (2) Where it is necessary to determine a new number of hours for personal assistance, a new individual assessment of the needs of personal assistance under Chapter 3 of the Disabled Persons Act shall be carried out. Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 25 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 15 on the Commission Report and the rejection of art. 25. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u24	Under art. 26 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 26 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 8. Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MP Milko Nedyalkov. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 16: Art. 16. The use of personal assistance shall be terminated: 1. in the event of the death of the user of personal assistance; 2. at the request of the user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2 to the provider of personal assistance; 3. with the expiry of the individual needs assessment. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 17: Art. 17. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue a regulation on the implementation of this Chapter. Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 26, editing of art. 27, which becomes 16 on the Commission Report, the creation of a new art. 17 and the name of Chapter Five, supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u26	Under art. 28 has a proposal from the National Representative Anton Kutev. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28, para. 2 in a sentence first at the beginning of the text is placed The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 18: Art. 18. (1) Deliverer of personal assistance under the law is the municipality at the current address of the user. (2) The mayor of the municipality with a contract may entrust the activities of the provider of personal assistance to: 1. Bulgarian natural persons registered under the Commercial Law and legal persons; 2. natural persons engaged in business and legal persons arising under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union or of another Member State of the European Economic Area. (3) The persons under para. 2 must: 1. are entered in the register of non-profit legal entities or in the Commercial Register and the subject of their activity to include the provision of personal assistance or assistant services; 2. have experience in providing social services for people with disabilities; 3. do not have required and unpaid tax, insurance or other public liabilities; 4. have a special space and equipment to store the documents of users of personal assistance in the territory of the municipality concerned; the room must meet the established standards for accessibility of disabled persons; 5. have financial and administrative capacity to carry out the activities as a provider of personal assistance. (4) For the provision of personal assistance to children with disabilities the person under para. 2 must hold a social service license for children issued in accordance with art. 43b of the Child Protection Act. (5) For the conclusion of the contract under para. 2 the representative or the person authorised by him shall present evidence in the municipality for the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 3, p. 4 and 5 and para. 4. For the other circumstances, the mayor of the municipality shall carry out an official inspection. (6) For the order for the choice of a provider of personal assistance under para. 2, the content of the contract and the financing, the relevant provisions of the Social Assistance Act and its implementing rules shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u27	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u28	Colleagues, I am convinced that the Commission's view of rejecting my proposal came as a result of not yet interfering with the working group for its adoption. In other words, I thought rejecting this proposal was more a matter of procedural nonsense than of the political desire of the National Assembly. Why do I think that is? It is about this, of course, that the service provider, in the case of personal aid, is the municipality, in which there is no doubt. The question from now on is whether and should this service be outsourced, that is, reassigned respectively to other objects, we understand private. In principle, according to the logic of this service, it does not make any sense to transfer it, because for the municipality it is a service which is a public service and which should normally be offered by the municipality under all the rules. Outsourcing is generally not necessary. It is true that there are situations and municipalities that are unable to perform this service. So that is precisely why, in principle, I would suggest that the possibility of outsourcing and the provider of the private service be dropped at all, because it is her job and because the purpose of this service is deeply public. The interference of private entities in this process will only result in an increase in the process. That is, it will turn out that from the money we work hard for disabled people to somehow provide them with a key service, in fact private companies will eventually appear to benefit from it. It can't be because these private companies without profit do not work, they work for profit. The result of all this work is that we will actually burden these costs with additional costs, which I do not think are necessary. But as I said, there are municipalities that obviously cannot bear this cost, and I am therefore inclined to think that outsourcing should not at all be affected, by the way, contrary to the views of the trade unions, because of the "Suprepa" and expressed a firm opinion against the outsourcing of the service. What I am only proposing, and what I think makes absolutely sense, is that the overadvising of private companies should only take place after a decision of the municipal council, not only after a decision of the mayor. That means we're raising the level at which the mayor's decision is made to the city council. This fully corresponds to the spirit of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and in practice provides a little greater certainty that mayors will not transfer another municipal activity to private citizens.. who to take some commission, who because they do not want to deal with it, and that in fact municipalities as representatives of the public in the appropriate place will do their job. This is a key decision for me, and it is an important decision for this bill. I am sure that if this battle had taken place at the very beginning within the working group, the text would have been different by now. I am convinced that there are no serious arguments for this rejection. What I see as arguments is, in my opinion, I would rather call him stubborn perhaps, but I still ask you to look into it and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u30	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I would like to speak in favour of Anton Kutev's proposal and further develop his theory of outsourcing. Apparently, it's already accepted as a principle the outsourcing of these services outside. I just want to confirm what Anton Kutev said that it is better for the decision-making level to be higher than the municipal council, for example. It is clear that the mayor will conclude the contracts, but let it be after a sanction of the municipal council at least for this reason, because in the Law on Local Government and Local Administration in Art. 17 is written: The local self-government is expressed in the law and the real possibility of citizens and their elected bodies to decide independently all issues of local importance which the law has provided in their competence in the field. 7 is social services. Further on in art. 20 is written: The Municipal Council shall determine the policy for the construction and development of the municipality in relation to the implementation of activities under art. 17, as well as other activities defined by law. The law on local self-government and local administration includes the municipal council to deal with social issues, so there is nothing wrong with para. 2 The mayor of the municipality may conclude and entrust activities to a provider of personal assistance by concluding contracts with them, but after the sanction and decision of the municipal council. It's a matter of sight, of course, and the legislator, but I think we wouldn't be wrong if we accepted Anton Kutev's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The line is Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm late with Mr. Kutev's line. It's also for Mr. Gokov. First, when going in the direction of revealing a social service, there must be a decision of the municipal council. Thus it is written in the Social Assistance Act in the chapter that regulates social services. This will probably be recorded and written in the new Social Services Act, which we are about to adopt next year, that is, the municipal council is deciding to open the social service. From there on, what is written in the proposal that we are doing, in the version of the Commission, see para. 6. Alinea 6 says that the order for choosing a provider for personal assistance is clearly written. What's being done to date. The municipalities conclude contracts with suppliers when they do not themselves want or cannot provide this service, they are outsourcing this service, as you said just now, and they contract with the private service provider. See what is written there: For the order to choose a provider of personal assistance under para. 2 in the content of the contract, the financing shall apply with the provisions of the Social Assistance Act and its implementing rules. See what the Social Assistance Act says, art. 18, para. 8: All activities in the field of social services shall be provided by competition or by negotiation with a single candidate in compliance with criteria and standards, and the Regulation on criteria and standards for social services shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers. That is, in the Social Assistance Act, and now there is a procedure signed under which this is being carried out. This mechanism is still working to date. Even if the municipal council were to rule, we still have to go through this procedure. I understand your approach. The working group's approach is slightly different.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u33	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Second line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I will join my reply to what Dr. Ademov said because the order for providing social services is written in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act in art. 37. There it is clearly stated that: The Mayor of the municipality can entrust the management of the social service after the conduct of the competition. You propose for the provision of this service to a non-profit legal person, which is recorded in the register of the Agency for Social Assistance, to take place after a decision of the municipal council. I believe that there is no need for this proposal of yours to be accepted, as we are burdening the municipal council with non-essential functions, once what Dr. Ademov said, a decision is made by the municipal council to reveal a certain service. So in terms of what you said, that we thus, if we provide the service, a personal assistant to a non-profit corporate entity, will load and have some profit that is absolutely not true. This is delegated by the State. The funds are transferred by the Social Assistance Agency to the mayor of the municipality. The mayor of the municipality shall transfer these funds to the provider of the social service in the case of the provider of personal assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Gokov, it did not become clear from your speech, but also from the following lines, whether the mechanism of personal assistance is a social service. After the municipal council has decided for the other social services to accept the social service, as it was called "personal assistance" has the municipal council decided? After we call it a mechanism and we are currently adopting a special law with him, what is the role and function of the municipal council? Is it at all excluded from the activities of the municipality in carrying out the mechanism of private aid? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u38	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Dr. Ademov, I agree with you on what you say in his part that the task force has found an approach to the issue. We offer another logic. I think our logic is no stronger than the logic of the task force, so we make the proposal, we don't withdraw it and we hold on to it. It's actually Anton Kutev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u39	[[Replying away from the microphones.]] You're importers, you did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u40	This is an absolutely correct remark to the importers of the Law that they should have done so at the beginning, but this is another matter. Next, Mrs. Angelova, I do not agree with you at all. You even called the city council's non-essential functions. But I read you the two articles of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration just a little while ago. Art. 17 and art. 20. There it is clearly shown that these things are inherent for the municipal council, because they even oblige them to do so. Mr. Nedyalkov, I absolutely agree with your reply, but in this way you return us at the beginning of the Law. Should personal assistance be in the Social Services Act, or should it be outside of it? From this point of view, I will spare myself further reflections on the matter, but I continue to consider also because of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, and because of everything I said and everyone in the lines that this sanction of the municipal council is necessary and must have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev. They voted 113 MPs: 30, against 61, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 28, which becomes art. 18 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 19: Art. 19. Legal persons under art. 18, para. 2 may provide personal assistance after entering the register under art. 6, p. 4. Article 30 "The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 20: Art. 20. In the event of a change of circumstances relating to the carrying out of personal assistance activities, legal persons under art. 18, para. 2 notify the mayor of the municipality within 7 days of the change. The notification shall be submitted in person by letter of delivery (reverse receipt) through a authorised postal operator or by electronic means as required by Regulation (EU) No In this case, the regulation under art. 17................................................ Under art. 31 has a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The mayor of the municipality shall enter into the register under art. 17, para. 6 of the Social Assistance Act the users and assistants of personal assistance in the territory of the respective municipality. (2) The provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 or 2: 1. organise and manage the activities of providing personal assistance; 2. conduct explanatory and informational activities for the provision of personal assistance; 3. conclude and terminate the employment contracts with the assistants; 4. provides conditions for improving the qualification of employees and staff; 5. maintain an individual file of each user of personal assistance; 6. provide a report to the mayor of the municipality on the personal assistance provided, based on the reports of the assistants of the personal assistance; 7. maintain an up-to-date list for candidates for assistants and their professional experience; 8. may conduct training of assistants and users of personal assistance in order determined by the ordinance under art. 17; 9. maintain a register of complaints and alerts on the provision of personal assistance; 10. mediate to settle disputes between the user of personal assistance and his assistant; 11. implement other activities related to the provision of personal assistance. (3) The provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 or 2 is also obliged to provide salaries to the user of personal assistance all hours determined in the direction under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 22. Mr. Chairman, in this article I will then make an editorial amendment. I will now read it as per the Commission's version: Art. 22. (1) The mayor of the municipality on the basis of the reports of the providers of personal assistance, as well as analysis and evaluation of the achieved objectives in the provision of art. 18, para. 2 prepare a report on the number of users of personal assistance by age, residence and number of hours used and the amount of means of payment of personal assistance. (2) The report shall be made available to the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency annually by 31 January. Reports shall also be submitted at the request of the Executive Director. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 23: Art. 23. The provisions of Chapter 4 of the Social Assistance Act shall apply to the outstanding issues set out in this Chapter. Mr. Chairman, in art. 22 on a proposal from the Commission, the words referred to in art. 18, para. 2 "We add" by art. 18, para. 2 "To be moved to the sentence first of para. 1 after the words the providers of personal assistance. This text fell below when printing a technical slip.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u43	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u44	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 in a sentence first after the words "personal assistance" the words "under art." 18, para. 2.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u45	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As you have heard, we have made an offer, at least since the possibility of a National Register of Candidates for Assistants has been dropped, such a register to support candidates for assistants at municipal level. What we are being offered at the moment in art. 21, we see that the mayor of the municipality actually enters the register under art. 17, para. 6 of the Social Assistance Act the users and assistants of personal assistance in the territory of the respective municipality. This is his obligation in the Social Assistance Act because the mayor of the municipality manages social services in the territory of the municipality concerned, which are delegated by the State. This is regulated in the Law, but the register under art. 17, para. 6, if we look closely at what this register contains, and what we are currently adding to art. 21, we will see again that candidates for assistants will in no way be applied in such a public register. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, next para. 2, we see that the mayor of the municipality will keep an up-to-date list of candidates for assistants and their professional experience. Yes, but this current list is by no means public. In this regard, again, I call on all of you to consider why and what is interfering with the register under para. 6 as we introduce it to para. 1 now in art. 21, where the mayor of the municipality has the commitments to record the users and assistants of personal assistance, to include the candidates for assistants. In this regard, please reconsider the version of art. 21, para. One, and let's turn on the... It is clear from the report itself that the Commission generally supports the proposal, but it is not supported in its entirety and in its meaning. Candidates for assistants remain again on an up-to-date list, which will be kept in the municipality and will be imposed on anyone who wants to use a personal assistant and does not have such an opportunity to provide it through his family, through his household, to go to the respective municipality to see if there are such candidates for assistants. Let us include the candidates for assistants in this register in the Social Assistance Act, which includes users and assistants. Mr. Chairman, I suggest we include the candidates for assistants in the register of art. 21, para. 1 of the text we are currently looking at.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u47	Would you give a clear wording of the text, Mrs. Klisurska?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u48	Yes, of course: Art. 21. (1) The mayor of the municipality shall enter into the Register under art. 17, para. 6 of the Social Assistance Act, users and assistants of personal assistance in the territory of the municipality concerned and candidates for assistants.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u49	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, I will put to the vote the first amendment proposal in the version of art. 22. Vote 95 MPs: 95, with no objection and no abstention. The offer is accepted. I am now voting on the editorial amendment made by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska in the text of art. 21. They voted 86 MPs: 32, against 13, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the version of art. 29, which becomes art. Article 19; version of Art. 30, which becomes art. Article 20; the version of Article 20 Art. 31, which becomes Art. Article 21; version of Art. 21 32, which becomes Art. 22 with the already adopted editorial amendment; the proposal to create a new art. 23 with a text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u50	? Chapter 6? Assistants.? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 24: Art. 24. The assistant shall be a natural person chosen by the user of personal assistance authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2, to provide personal assistance under the agreement referred to in Article 2. 14, para. 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 25: Art. 25. The assistant is a person who is not: 1. placed under interlock; 2. convicted of a deliberate crime of general nature and against it no protection measures under the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence have been imposed on a user of personal assistance. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The applicant for assistant shall submit to a provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 or 2 application on a template to which it applies: 1. CV; 2. a copy of a contract of employment, if the applicant for assistant work, or a declaration that there is no contract of employment; 3. a statement that no protection measures under the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence have been imposed on him with regard to the user of personal assistance. (2) The provider of personal assistance shall conduct an interview with the applicant as an assistant. Under art. 36 has a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer which is reflected in art. 28. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The assistant shall provide personal assistance on the basis of a contract of employment concluded with the personal assistance provider. (2) The assistant shall present to the provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 or 2 months report on a template for the hours worked, signed and by the user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2. Under art. 37 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer which is reflected in art. 27. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 28: Art. 28. In the event of a change of circumstance under art. 25 after the conclusion of the contract of employment for providing personal assistance, the assistant shall notify the provider of personal assistance no later than three days after the change occurs. In this case, the regulation under art. 17................................................ The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 38, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39, which becomes art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u51	Statements? Mr. Budinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wonder, is it just me that yesterday and today I am impressed that these two very important bills are important to the mothers, some of which are here, important to our entire society, Mrs. Cornelia Nino is missing?! Maybe now she's making other populist stocks and plans to shake the government. Yesterday you were 13 and a half people from BSP, today you are about 20 people, not so much. I'm just reminding you that you wanted us not to have a vacation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u53	Get to the point, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u54	...because of these bills, and now you're gone. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You didn't register yesterday and today! I'm sorry, but yesterday almost all the media didn't reflect that fact. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues from BSP, instead of aposting me, I suggest you make a populist suggestion that we work at Christmas.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u55	Mr. Budinov, get back on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u56	Okay. I'm using the case to congratulate the mothers. For me you are very strong women and I admire you! Admiration! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Mr. Kutev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Budinov, I am extremely pleased when the National Assembly begins to manifest an awake conscience and it begins to burst into bright flames if it was at all a flame. However, I would ask you to bear in mind the next time there is a crisis, I will tell you in a moment in private conversation at least five crises that we have at the moment: an example crisis with lung transplants, with oxygen therapy, those who protest every day, and so on. There's a crisis all the time! You should have greeted the mothers when the chairman behind me didn't let them in the T-shirt room! Do you remember a year ago? You forgot to say hello. If you had congratulated them then, maybe these laws would have been passed before the budget and there wouldn't have been the next points where we talk about how much they cost and it would turn out that money wasn't enough. Only you weren't there then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u59	I was here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u60	With regard to Cornelia Ninova, she is the importer of this bill, not you. If you were an importer of the Bill, it would have been voted much earlier and it would have already been a fact. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u61	All right, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u62	She, Cornelia Ninova, did her job. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I suggest we all think of ourselves as MPs. The People's Representative...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u63	I think we've gone a long way from the subject, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u64	No, I'm just answering the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u65	No, you're not answering, you're making a line, but so are you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u66	The MP is something higher than that person who makes cheap political applications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u68	Do your job! Your job, Mr. Budinov, is not that one. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're a lawmaker, and you have to write laws... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u70	...something you missed! How many laws have you written...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u71	Would you please get it over with?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u72	...since you've been in this room, that I have no memory?! You haven't even done anything for the artists!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u73	Mr. Kutev, could you please finish this? Would you be so understanding, at least you? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank you. I'm not gonna answer you for what you said, for explainable reasons, because... Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Budinov, you missed a very important political issue.. The BSP colleagues did not register yesterday and today, although they announced that under important laws they will register. This meeting is held thanks to the members of parliament who registered these are colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the "United patriots" and colleagues from the DPS and from Volja, of course. [[Relations from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] I want you to explain what the political sign is that you're giving...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u75	Who can explain, Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u76	...with your refusal to register. [[Relations from the National Representative Evgeni Budinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u77	Mr. Budinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u78	Perhaps you should ask them, and you should ask them if this is a political sign, or if they just forgot to register today, since this law is so important to them? The fact that Mrs. Nino is gone is not the first time, we are used to it without her presence she comes here only when there is some scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Third line? I won't. A hole? You won't use it. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You violated the Rules by taking the floor of Mr. Anton Kutev, who is entitled to a two-minute line of speech, which was not on the subject, but you admitted the speech that is not on the subject. The line cannot be on the subject, as the statement itself is not on the subject. Ten seconds you interrupted Mr. Kutev, and in a minute and thirty seconds you removed him from the stands. At the same time, for the same line, you gave the floor to Mr. Bikov without even making a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u81	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u82	And since you're asking what the subject is, fellow Members, don't you understand that this majority and this government are going away! [[Noise, lines and shouts.]] You won't get a registration from BSP. You won't get a registration from BSP!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u83	Mr. Svilensky, tell me that thing. Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u84	These people are important to us. [[GERB noise and lines]] That is why we have introduced this law, but we will not provide you with the quorum to start work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u85	Not to the group, but to me, and tell me all this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u86	And don't look every morning at the quorum scandals. The BSP will not provide you with the quorum. You will come to work and show that you have a stable construction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u87	Mr. Svilensky, you have a line on the way you're leading. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u88	Mr. Chairman, my line of conduct is personal to you, because the position of President of the National Assembly in a republic with parliamentary management is, in fact, you hold the highest position in this country, which means that the only control over your activities can be carried out by the House or yourself. Sit down, think about it, personally I will not define your behaviour now: is there a double standard, is there a different attitude towards lawmakers from government and opposition? You will make this account as much as you can. The only thing I'm going to tell you, as a procedure, is my request. The next time you walk down the hallway over there, at the main entrance, I have proposed it to other presidents, I am not convinced that everyone has done so. Go and see the persons standing there. These are the previous Presidents of the National Assembly. And I ask you from now on, when you think of yourself and the hall, compare with those faces there, especially those in the front row. Think not of those in the hall, because thousands have passed through this hall, have gone away and no one remembers their names, and some of them are also in jail. Think of those who are in the portraits in the back, because you, unfortunately, measure with them. You should consider whether you have a comparable relationship with them in the way you lead. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u89	Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the name of Chapter Six by importer; the version of art. 33, which becomes Art. Article 24; version of Art. 34, which becomes art. 25; the version of Art. 25; 35, which becomes art. 26; the version of Art. 26; 36, which becomes art. Article 27; version of Art. 37, which becomes Art. 28; the Commission's proposal to reject art. 26 by importer and the text of the importer under art. 39, which becomes art. 29. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 30: Art. 30. (1) Personal assistance shall be financed by means of: 1. the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; 2. donations, wills, sponsorships provided by natural or legal persons; 3. European Structural and Investment Funds; 4. projects and programmes financed by other international financial institutions and donors; 5. other sources. (2) Personal assistance may also be financed by funds from the budgets of the municipalities by decision of the respective municipal council. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 41 to be rejected. Under art. 42 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 42, sentence one: 1. the number..1, 2. the number The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. The time-rate for work under the mechanism shall be determined on the basis of a coefficient of 1.4 of the minimum hourly salary established for the respective year, social security and health insurance contributions at the expense of the employer, if the assistant is not provided on another basis, and the additional wage for service and professional experience. This article. 31 of the Commission, Mr President, will be made in a moment's editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u91	You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u92	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to make an editorial amendment to art. 42, which becomes art. 31. The purpose of this editorial amendment is to have greater clarity in the interpretation and calculation of the hourly rate. The content of the text of art. 31 is fully preserved and structured, as I said, so that there is more clarity in the interpretation and calculation of the hourly rate, and this, by the way, is also a proposal of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities. To read the version of art. 31: Art. 31. The time-rate for the work under the mechanism shall be determined on the basis of: 1. coefficient 1.4 of the minimum hourly salary established for the country for the year concerned; 2. social security and health insurance contributions at the expense of the employer if the assistant is not provided on another basis; 3. the additional wage for service and professional experience. If you'll excuse me, I'll read one more time: "2." social security and health insurance contributions at the expense of the employer, if the assistant is not provided on another basis, and 3. the additional wage for service and professional experience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I was able to record, and I'm going to put it to a vote. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I'm going to start by saying that I support the editorial amendment that was made now, and it makes sense, and it's okay. I take the floor to draw your attention to something that I think is key to this bill right now. What I'm proposing to her stands as some numbers, as some numbers, actually matters, and my firm conviction is that in the assessments that we are now doing for part-time work, we will face problems politically. Now I'm gonna try to tell you why. I canceled the first point, I withdrew the first point of my proposal, because the initial proposal in the Bill was.. 1.1 of the minimum wage............................................................................... six hundred and fifty-fifty BGN. Unfortunately, I am one of the people who use this service personally, meaning I pay out of my pocket because my mother is with Alzheimer and I use a personal assistant 24 hours a day. First of all, I want to tell you that this bill is currently not solving the problem of the 24-hour bill, not because of the bill, but because of the Labour Code, because, in fact, the Labour Code does not allow it, let alone this bill. That is, we on the issue of personal assistants who should enjoy 24 hours, I think we have yet to deal with the legislation and we with this bill do not solve it. The problem here, however, is that by not solving the 24-hour problem and by allowing these most difficult six or eight hours, because most likely at the Ministry it will turn out that there is no more financial resources, we will result in that we can't actually hire these people. I am currently paying a lot more money than my pocket for a personal assistant, and I guarantee you that one of my biggest problems is getting an assistant to do this job. Why do I suggest an increase in rates? I withdrew the first point because it is clear to me that at the moment these time rates are entering into an agreement with the budget, with the Minister of Finance, with the Prime Minister, that is, if I now propose a change in the rates for 2019 in the budget which has already passed, it is clear to me that I will only sabotage the process. But I am telling you that these rates will not work, that the rates made in this way really solve the problem of mothers to a large extent and one part of the problems of mothers of children with disabilities, but a bunch of other people do not solve it. Finally, it will turn out by adopting this legislation that what have we actually done, colleagues, really? After a year and a half of a struggle, after seven or eight months, the whole country is dealing with people with disabilities, after we all convince them that we are now solving their problems, we have introduced two laws, we are adopting a second one, we will put a third, 150 million in the budget, a bunch of protests and so on, that is, we have filled the space and ears and the eyes of people with disabilities with the things we do for them. Believe me, with these laws that are useful and necessary, we decide, by my personal assessment, between 10 and 15% of the problems of people with disabilities. The other 85% remain unsolved and in just two months those with unresolved problems will still be at the front, because after all the noise we have raised, it will practically be that at the end of most of these people we will raise their monthly income from 270 to 300 BGN, which will be just as insufficient for them, and they will remain just as outside the society. This does not mean that the laws we adopt are not useful, it means that we are in a difficult situation with regard to solving their problems and what we foresee as a time rate solves the problems of the special time and money, about 30% of them. That is why I am proposing, not with this budget, but with the next suppose from 2020 onwards, that we now raise the money to the extent that they can really implement the private aid regime. Just one more argument. The personal aid regime, according to his modern understanding, means that the person who uses personal help can, if he is able, of course, determine his needs when and how to do so. That can't happen with the minimum wage. In order to be able to determine to one person that you need mornings from this, and in the evenings to this, this includes going into abnormal working hours, not to mention cases of my own, which is not about working hours at all, but about living together. These things are not solved and, unfortunately, I am simply telling you very collegiately, neither as a threat nor as a challenge: after a few months with these texts that we have adopted, people with disabilities will still be at the front, because the vast majority of them will remain dissatisfied despite the work that we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, you are wrong in your speech for several reasons. Firstly, there was a working group that worked hard between the first and second votes. Representatives of protesting mothers of children with disabilities, the Ombudsman, experts from the Social and Financial Ministry and MPs were actively involved in this working group. It is this hourly rate with a ratio of 1.4 that we have agreed with the protesting mothers of disabled children. The aim of this law is to be secured with financial resources for the next year. This is more important than adopting hollow law for years to come. Next, you may have noticed or missed that we have a time limit until 31 December 2020, and the circle of individuals who will receive personal assistance. This is what we were led by when the working group made this decision in respect of art. 31. There is consensus on this text. I would like to say that it is much more important that this law is working in the support of both disabled people and the mothers of disabled children be financially secured, as it is for next year, than giving false hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Second line, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u98	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, with one part of the things you say, I agree completely, but no one anywhere and never said that these laws solve all problems. It's a start. It is obvious that there is something to be done in terms of policies for people with disabilities, and no one has any doubts about it. For us, however, it is very important that something else is there for people with disabilities. There are the fundamental mechanisms, there are the principles that must be realised in the further efforts of any government. Clearly, this is just the beginning. It is clear that personal aid will be granted in stages. You yourselves know that there are limitations in this law because the financial resource based on the public contract, which is concluded at present, allows the implementation of these policies. Henceforth are the challenges. This is just the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u99	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u100	Dear Mr. Ademov, I, of course, know that the purpose is to sign the UN Convention. On the subject of the Convention in the last year and a half, I have done countless questions and activities to this end. By the way, the Bill is recognized and signed by me precisely with the idea that we're going there, so that's perfectly clear to me. It is also clear to me that this is the beginning of a movement, which there is no doubt that there is still much to change and other policies to develop. Fact. What I'm trying to tell you in this case is that we haven't solved the foundation. Mrs. Angelova said that this was the working group, that we were in consensus. Mrs. Angelova, did you not understand that, in fact, the people with whom you negotiate, with whom I deeply respect and have helped them with what I can all the time, are actually only one part of the people with disabilities, and not a large one. You have negotiated with the mothers of disabled children, but you have never negotiated with the Center for Independent Lives and with a bunch of other organizations who have actually protested with them for a long time and who have their own resources for protests. That's what I'm trying to tell you. You must be the kind of person who understands it, because that's what you do. On top of that, I'm not even trying to make politics right now. I'm trying to pay attention to those problems that are waiting for us around the bend, and they're actually waiting for you because you're in charge right now, and they're waiting for you right after New Year's. This stubbornness to claim: they are agreed in the working group yes, they are agreed in the working group because the mothers of children with disabilities wanted to achieve their goals at all costs. Some of them have achieved, for which I congratulate them. I'm telling you that the goals achieved are 10% of the total and that's your problem. He's your problem right now, because you have to solve it. If you're saying that you've solved the problems and that the task force has actually negotiated it, then get on with it, because that's what you're telling me, to know that you're going against the fast train. He's coming. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] He's coming and he's right in front of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u101	Any other speeches? I can't see. We're calling off the debate, moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote, first, the proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 32, against 52, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for editorial amendments in art. 42, which becomes art. 31 made by the MP Svetlana Angelova. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote: the name of Chapter 7 by importer, supported by the Commission; the version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 30 proposed by the Commission; the Commission's proposal for the rejection of art. 41 by importer; and the version of art. 42, which becomes art. 31 with the adopted editorial amendment. They voted 120 MPs: for 119, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u102	Under art. 43 has a proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 3 words shall be dropped no later than one month. 2. para. 4... is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The salary of the assistant shall be determined on the basis of the hours worked for one calendar month through the report under art. 27, para. 2. (2) The report shall be submitted to the personal assistance provider in the first three working days of the month following the reporting month and shall be subject to verification. The remuneration shall be paid up to the 20th of the month following the reporting month. (3) When the report is submitted after the expiry of the term under para. 2, but not later than 10 days, the assistant and user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2 provide within three working days written explanations of the reasons for the delay. In this case, the remuneration shall be paid within 5 working days of the submission of the explanations. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 33: Art. 33. The funds for the financing of personal assistance, according to the specified monthly number of hours, shall be transferred by the Social Assistance Agency to the mayor of the municipality. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 34: Art. 34. The user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2 may manage and distribute within the month individually determined hours under the Agreement under art. 14, para. 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 35: Art. 35. The mayor of the municipality up to the 10th of the month following the month to which he refers shall submit to the Agency for Social Assistance a financial statement on the funds spent on users of personal assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u103	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Statements? I can't see. We shall end the debate and proceed with the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 114 MPs: 34 against 52, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 32; the version of the Commission for the text of art. 44, which becomes Art. Article 33; version of the Commission for Art. 33 45, which becomes art. 34; and the version of the Commission for the text of art. 46, which becomes art. 35. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u104	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall exercise control over the implementation of the law. (2) The mayors of municipalities and the providers of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 2 exercise control over the provision of personal assistance. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 37: Art. 37. (1) In the exercise of its control powers, the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance shall empower officials who shall: 1. carry out checks; 2. visit without restriction territorial structures and providers of personal assistance and require explanations, documents, references and information for each user of personal assistance; 3. receive from the user of personal assistance, the person authorised by him or the person under art. 8, para. 2 the necessary information about the personal assistance received; 4. give mandatory prescriptions; 5. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements. (2) For the results of the verification under para. 1, t. 1 a protocol shall be drawn up to which the documents collected, references and explanations shall apply. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 38: Art. 38. User of personal assistance, his authorised person or person under art. 9, para. 2, which declares false data or violates the rules for the use of personal assistance, shall be punished with a fine from 100 to 300 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, which becomes art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 40. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 52 to be rejected. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The acts establishing the infringements shall be drawn up by the officials referred to in Article 1. 37, para. 1 and penal decrees shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance or officials authorised by him. (2) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u105	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Eight; the amendments proposed by the Commission for art. 47, which becomes Art. Art. 36; for art. 48, which becomes art. Article 37 for Art. 49, which becomes art. 38; texts of the importer for art. 50 and 51, which become Art. 39 and 40, supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to reject art. Art. 52, art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 41 in the version of the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that before we move on to the next section, we make an editorial amendment to the already adopted art. 21, para. 3. [[GERB lines.]] Please, it's been done before. The editorial amendment is agreed with both the Minister and the Legal Department of the National Assembly: The provider of personal assistance under art. 18, para. 1 and 2 shall be obliged to pay and provide the user with personal assistance all the hours specified in the heading under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on People with Disabilities. Please, let's do it. The text thus becomes clearer, does not need duplication of funds and they are guaranteed for those who are users of personal assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u107	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Is there another angle? I can't see. I will put to the vote the proposal for an editorial amendment made by the MP Milko Nedyalkov. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the compartment. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the purposes of the law: 1. It is the ability of the disabled person to make his own decisions about his life and to carry them out, receiving the necessary support. 2. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for the same by type of infringement shall be repeated. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u109	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put it to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of the division; the version of § 1 and the proposal for a change of the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" in the version of the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u110	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev: The following amendments shall be made in § 2 of the Additional Provisions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 1 the number 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the number....1,3....is replaced by..1,5.... 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and 3, and times t. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) By 31 December 2020, the maximum number of hours financed by the state budget for personal assistance shall be determined according to art. 12, para. 2 as follows: 1. for the first degree of moderate dependence/difficults up to 15 hours per month of right to personal assistance; 2. for the second degree of severe dependence/difficult up to 42 hours per month right of personal assistance; 3. for a third degree of very severe dependence/difficult up to 84 hours per month right of personal assistance; 4. for the fourth degree of total dependence/difficults up to 168 hours per month right of personal assistance. (2) By 31 December 2020, the hourly rate of work under Art. 31 December 2020 shall be calculated as follows: 31 is as follows: 1. for 2019 1C001.a. does not control "software" specially 2. for 2020 supposed to meet the requirements of this The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. By 31 December 2020, users of personal assistance shall be: 1. people with the right to foreign assistance of certain 90 and over 90 per cent species and the degree of disability or degree of permanent reduced performance; 2. children with the right to foreign assistance of defined 50 and over 50 per cent species and the degree of disability or degree of permanent reduced performance; 3. children without the right to foreign assistance of certain 90 and over 90 per cent species and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced productivity. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ (1) As from 1 April 2019 the documents for the preparation of individual assessments of the needs of personal assistance under Chapter 3 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities shall be submitted to the specialized departments of the Departments of Social Assistance at the Agency for Social Assistance at the current address of the disabled person. (2) The granting and financing of personal aid shall take place from 1 September 2019. (3) Until personal assistance is provided, people with permanent disabilities who use the social services of a personal assistant and a social assistant who are funded by the state budget continue to use them in the current order. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. As of 1 January 2021, the policy for providing personal assistance to people is disability is implemented by the State Agency for Disabled People. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 6 and 7: ........................................................... (1) Methodical instructions under art. 6, p. 2 shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the law the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue the ordinance under art. 17. (3) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the law, the models of documents relating to the provision and use of personal assistance shall be validated by the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. § 7. By 30 June 2020, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall prepare an analysis for the provision of personal assistance and submit to the National Assembly a report which may contain proposals for improving personal assistance legislation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8. Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u111	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u112	Dear colleagues! I am going back to something that you have voted on and I am sure that you will not accept as my proposal, but I would like to draw attention to you that it is precisely in these texts that it becomes clear what we are doing with this bill. Why am I making these suggestions? Note, I am starting from this point: in § 3 it is said that by 31 December 2020, users of personal assistance are three groups, one of which is 90 and over 90% disabled, that is, a large part of this group, which is the first under the aim of the law, really need 24-hour care. A large part of this group is in 24-hour care. In the above texts................................................................................ 4 of § 2, para. This is the total dependence that is then referred to in people with 90% disabilities, we set 168 hours maximum rate, which is 8 hours per working day. Eight hours a day! These people need 24-hour care 7 days a week. That is, if we move the rates to what we are now deciding, in 2019 the salary to be received by a person who serves this group, which is envisaged as the first target group in the Law, is BGN 560. Right now, I'm using a personal assistant that I'm paying him. The clean salary I give him is about £1,000. monthly, but it actually cost me 1,500 because I pay for food and overheads and a bunch of other things. With 1500 leva. monthly, under the regime right now, I can't find any assistants. I'm telling you, when one assistant leaves me, it's grief until I find the other. One of my horrors is what would I do if Maria left? Here we bet instead of the thousand and five hundred that I pay for the 560 in 2019, 670 in 2020! What I'm explaining to you and why I'm having this whole conversation is that after all the suffering we've had, I'm still telling you, I haven't made the proposal for 2019. I don't want to minimize processes and I don't want to return the talk about this year's budget, but at least for the next budgets, you understand that what we write won't work, and it concerns a very large part of the people with disabilities. I understand the mothers of disabled children, because for them the steps we take are big, because they will still have the opportunity to receive this money, they will receive insurance. We've really taken great steps for them, which I'm very happy about. I'm telling you that a lot of people who really need these rates, and with this legislation that we are adopting right now, will stay out of it. It is not that we will solve only one problem, that is, the question is not that if 1000 leva costs you your personal assistant, we will give you 700 and you have paid 300 leva, and you can't pay that much. The truth is, he can't use that 700 either. These people cannot afford to pay either 300 or 1000, and by pawning these texts, most of these people will be left without personal assistants at all. That's what we're doing right now! That's why I told you before that this thing would give us new problems. Because, do I know who will rule in half a year when people will know what we've accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We are at the finish line, and we are about to vote on the final paragraphs of the Personal Aid Bill. The work on the Bill was not easy and parallel with the many-hour meetings, working groups, public discussion, there were protests, dissatisfied. There was tension, there was a suggestion that the government did not want to adopt a Personal Aid Bill. Today, with the adoption of this bill, these suggestions were not justified. Moreover, the government has been responsible for policies for people with disabilities. lv. There will be additional in the budget of the Social Ministry, for policies for people with disabilities, personally provided with the support of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. A total of 437 million will be available in the Social Ministry's budget for disabled people for 2019. lv. I would like to thank my fellow Members who worked in the working group between the first and second votes, the National Assembly referees, the experts from the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ombudsman Maya Manolova, representatives of the protesting mothers who actively joined this working group. Unfortunately, no representative from the BSP is present in this working group. I would like to assure the disabled and the mothers of children with disabilities that, by yesterday's law, we adopted the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Personal Aid Act, which we are about to adopt in the final way today, the funds are provided, that is, the two laws are financially secured thanks to the responsible attitude of the government. It is more important to note that thanks to the dialogue and the sensible compromise, we have made the right decisions, and we have responded to the demands of protesting mothers of disabled children to the maximum. The government is responsible for policies and care for people with disabilities, and we have proved that. But were you, colleagues on the left, fully responsible for caring for people with disabilities? Yesterday and today we noticed that the ranks of the BSP are shaky, although you insisted on the adoption of the Personal Aid Act during the summer vacation, but yesterday and today you are gone, and your leader is also not there. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria "Where is your leader?"]] It was easier to ride and politicize the protest of the mothers of children with disabilities than to endure this goal until the end of the year the policy for people with disabilities. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u115	Thank you. The line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u116	Dear Mrs. Angelova, there are situations in politics where it is better to keep quiet, frankly, or at least say essential things. You obviously think otherwise, which remains at your expense. No one was present at the working group. I want to tell you that I am the importer of this bill that we are now adopting. Mr. Ademov, to you and to Mrs. Angelova I have a question: how many times has one of you invited me to a working group? [[Noise and lines.]] Both of you tell me: how many invitations did I get for a task force? I'll tell you none, but that's not the problem. I have participated in the working groups clearly enough, I have known all the texts and, where necessary, I have given my opinion to the whole process, Mrs. Angelova, from before you deal with it. Because the process of drafting the Law, which we adopt, started a year and a half ago when they protested and you weren't there when they tried to enter the National Assembly, and only adopted them the Complaints Commission, then they started accepting others, but half a year later; when we challenged at least five or six parliamentary questions, which the Minister answered, two of them grew into debates and there, at the back, at my own insistence, the children with disabilities stood, for the first time in the Chamber of the National Assembly, which, by the way, is wrong because there is nothing to do in the Chamber of the National Assembly, but they were there. All this time we've done a lot of things. I apologize for wanting the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, but then the scandal we made was also necessary for theirs to come to this. We've done an awful lot of work that you weren't there for. I wouldn't talk about it now if it wasn't for all of what you said, and that's why I was telling you that there are cases where it's better to keep quiet. It's okay, we've passed legislation. If I owe someone real gratitude for this bill, it's the minister's because he did an awful lot of work during that time, he was adequate from the very beginning and from the very beginning he tried and did, unlike the parliamentary group at most yours, which was politicizing during that time. If BSP wanted to politicize this process, we had infinitely many opportunities to do so. [[Noise and lines.]] We didn't do it because it wasn't worth beating you for what you didn't do in that time, but because it wasn't for the benefit of the mothers and the protesters because we wanted to bring the end that came. I am convinced that if we had not submitted the Bill and admitted it, and from the very beginning, I have said that I am the Law on Personal Aid that we are now accepting, and at the time of its submission I did not agree to the end. I looked at it as another part, and I've said it ten times from this tribune, but I did it to get here. The fact is, we already have it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] All right, calm down, I'll tell you two more words. I can say it in the media if you're holding it, but I prefer it to you, if you're interested at all. Otherwise, if you don't want to talk, okay, you're smart, you know everything. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs. Angelova, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Angelova, we are really in the finals and the adoption of an important law that people have protested and wanted it for, and yet you have not been able to come out of your own mind and, in this case, admit that you were wrong. Anton Kutev told you a lot of things that I will not repeat, but in the end, when we adopt the Final Provisions in this bill, you are trying to bring politics. I don't know who you needed to do this, but you brought the debate back to square one. After you brought it back to the beginning, there was nothing essentially about the texts that we were voting on, and that is why my speech is not on these texts. My line to you is not on these texts. I will bring you back in June of last year when, on our proposal and on the question of Anton Kutev, Georgi Gokov and Mihail Hristov, there was a debate about the people with disabilities and then we warned you about what is waiting for you, and you made deaf and you changed the Project for a solution with a convenient solution that led to these protests and to the whole situation, and now to remind yourself, it makes no sense. The point is that we have reached the final of the Bill and you must recognise the decisive participation of the opposition that without raising the issue and without making proposals, there will be no such bill. This debate should not have been conducted, which we are currently talking to you as lines and as duplicates, but we should have led it after we adopted the Law, if you are outside the National Assembly, or on another occasion, but not within the framework of the last part of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u119	You have the floor, Professor Ivanov. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Firstly, I would like to congratulate all those who took part in the drafting of these two extremely important bills. I'd like to thank everyone who, from the first day to the last day, sat down so that they could... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll start with a thank you and move on to the line. I would like to address Mrs Angelova and ask: were you a member of the Commission in 2013? As I recall, you were.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u121	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u122	Who was the President of the Commission? Both God and not God the truth must be told, and not as you are comfortable with it. In 2013 were the mothers here again and they could say, was there any excitement, was there any discontent? There was! That's because you don't hear when it's not profitable. There was! I appeal to Mrs. Angelova, you are a member of the Commission, and my esteemed Dr. Ademov: what was done, what was done? To go out now and say: "We are extremely concerned... " [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You can give me a line later, if you want, I'll give you a statement. You did nothing, honorable opposition, and when we voted on the most important laws, the laws that you fought in the chest for, were involved in protests, you woke up all... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) The line from Anton Kutev: Why are you looking at me?]] The line is to her, not to me. I can look where I want, you still haven't given me the right to look left or right. Mrs. Angelova, I would like to address you: as Commissioner, can you tell me what initiatives Mrs. Cornelia Ninova has made?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u123	None!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u124	I want you to say it loudly from the stands so everyone can hear how very concerned they are, extremely concerned! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u125	Thank you, Associate Professor Ivanov. A hole, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start backwards with my line to Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, yes, I was a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy during the 40th National Assembly, and Mrs. Cornelia Ninova was chairman of that committee. However, for a period of one year, for the period from 2013 to 2014, no draft legislation was introduced regarding the policies for disabled people by the Council of Ministers, not by the Council of Ministers, but by the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from GERB.]] And now to the colleagues on the left. Honourable Members, it is shameful that you behaved, given that yesterday and today you are 79 persons on the list, you were not in plenary when you adopted these extremely important laws for people with disabilities. Your leader was gone, and Cornelia Ninova wasn't there! Stop taking political dividends out of someone else's back, guys! Stop, it's hypocrisy on your part! Make policies, not populism, as we do! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Dr. Ademov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, please return to the texts of the Law. The texts of the Personal Aid Act have not yet been definitively adopted. The mothers who are here don't deserve this discussion. They differed from all political parties and therefore my request is to return to the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u129	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. You have the word in the manner of conduct, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, to you: please do not allow your colleagues from BSP to behave like this and to shout. [[Noise and lines.]] It's basically a matter of upbringing, but I'm asking you to ask them. Guess that's not how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u131	Guys, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u132	I want to tell you something else, colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u133	I understand. I'll give everyone the floor. It's clear what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u134	Please let us humble ourselves and be good! After all, we're here about mothers and special people. Let's be good, let's vote on this bill and not tarnish it! Please be good, be humble and don't attack me! Thank you for your attention. [[(Noise, shout and lines.) Single applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u135	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. I really enjoyed Dr. Ademov's offer. Mr. Ermenkov. [[Executing noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, with compromise, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear mothers, I'm sorry! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry about what's happening right now. Sorry that some here forget that we are currently discussing issues related to your children, with your future, with your present, with your grief! And what has happened now is the most unbeautiful thing that can happen in a parliament. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand the excitement at the end of adopting this regulation. Practice has taught me that when a job goes to success, then paternity contenders are many. When a job goes bad, everyone runs away from it. Since in this debate, in this dispute and in this public speaking the opposition in the face of the BSP competed in the inclusion and authorship of this topic with the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, I ask you to give the floor to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria to be complete. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. To speak, Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u140	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Angelova, I cannot agree with your statement. This is about people with disabilities, not who will rob the political dividend. Point seven is my bill, as you know. Nobody's looking for a political dividend. But if you recall, I made an offer under the Disabilities Act following my encounter with a blind boy who's in a wheelchair. It asked me to do this: "Let social services upload their declarations, forms and documents in an online version, as it is difficult for me to get up to the third floor of social services. Notice: a wheelchair and absolutely blind! You rejected this proposal. So you're not the only one who cares about people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 48 against 49, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u142	Dear colleagues, with the clear awareness that I am making you as nervous as possible, I want to know that I have done everything I can on this matter. I want a re-vote. I hope you think about the future 10 seconds ahead of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u143	I will re-vote the proposal of the National Representative Anton Kutev in the part not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 140 MPs: 43, against 60, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the following texts: the version which the Commission proposes for § 2; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3 which becomes § 4; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 4 by importer; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 and 7 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 5, which is § 8; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 6 which becomes § 9. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. All proposals are accepted. Dear Minister, thank you. Good luck to you. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, just one sentence. I would like to thank the importers, colleagues from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Ombudsman of the Republic, the Minister, those who made proposals to those who participated in the discussion. I would like to thank my colleagues in the working group in particular. I will read their names to find out that for a month and a half they made it possible for these two laws to become working laws: Eva, Svetlana, Boryana, Marietta, Ralitsa, Vessela, Maya, Vera, Eleanor, Momchil, Marin, Lubomira, Rositsa, Evgenia, Mincho, Nikolina, Miglena, Anelia, Vessela, Snezhana, Penka, Adriana, Vassil, Hussein, Ivan. Dear girls and boys, dear colleagues, you've been great! Thank you. [[The MPs are getting straight. Applause from all parliamentary groups and those present on the balcony of the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u145	He has the word Minister Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u146	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the initiative is killing us! Thank you for adopting the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Aid. With the adoption of these two laws, we have fulfilled our commitments to the representatives of the disabled in the Action Plan signed on 9 October for the adoption of legislation for people with disabilities. The adoption of the Personal Aid Act satisfies the basic request of protesting mothers put forward for years in their protests. With the adoption of this law Bulgaria ranks to the few countries in Europe, which have a separate Personal Aid Act. This shows the attitude of the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament towards the people with disabilities. Between the first and second votes, many efforts were made to make the texts of the original Draft Working and in line with the budgetary framework. All the countries have made their compromises to come to this project, which you unanimously supported today. Our common responsibility was to try to minimize the risks associated with the implementation of the Law. Therefore, certain restrictions are laid down in the first years of its implementation and the explicit obligation by 30 June 2020 for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to prepare an analysis to be submitted to the National Assembly. In conclusion, let me also join the words of gratitude with my personal gratitude to all who have already listed the honourable Doctor Ademov. Thank you both for putting the laws on people with disabilities as your priority. Thanks to this, we are sending a difficult one, I would say a turbulent year, with new legislation adopted for people with disabilities. Thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. My fellow Members, I suggest we take a 30-minute break. Message: In the Northern lobby of the National Assembly will be opened an exhibition of Denitsa Gatsinski, an artist and parliamentary reporter. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. [[Noise, excitement and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u148	We continue our work with: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND CANADA, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. First is the foreign policy report. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to present the Report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u149	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, No 802-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. At a regular meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. The Agreement was signed at the European Union Summit on 30 October 2016 in Brussels and approved by the European Parliament on 15 February 2017. The reasons for the bill were presented by Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." The agreement confirms the strategic partnership between the European Union and Canada and contributes to expanding and deepening cooperation in search of a solution to global challenges. It provides for mechanisms for strengthening political dialogue by organising meetings at the highest level and consultations of ministers and experts. A Joint Committee of Ministers and a Joint Cooperation Committee shall be established. The Strategic Partnership Agreement helps to expand cooperation between the European Union and Canada in areas such as foreign and security policy, combating terrorism, combating organised crime, sustainable development, research, culture and education. The opportunities for coordination and interaction in a wide range of areas of mutual interest outside trade and economic relations are improved. Separate parts of the Agreement shall be provisionally applied from 1 April 2017 as it is of a mixed type. Its full entry into force will take place after the completion of the ratification process and the respective internal procedures in all the Member States of the European Union. The Parties may amend this Agreement in writing and the amendment shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of the last notification by which the Parties have notified each other of the completion of all necessary internal procedures for the entry into force of the amendment. The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and vote held, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 13 votes for the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other, No 802 02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u150	Thank you, dear Dr. Grozdanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u151	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, No 802-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. At its meeting on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister; and Mr. Danail Chakarov, Director of International Law and Law of the European Union. The draft was presented by Mr. Georgiev, who pointed out that the Strategic Partnership Agreement strengthens relations between the European Union and Canada as strategic partners by creating prerequisites for expanding cooperation and ensuring mechanisms for political dialogue with the organisation of annual meetings at the highest level and consultations of ministers and experts. It is envisaged the establishment of a Joint Committee of Ministers and a Joint Cooperation Committee to monitor the development of strategic relations between the Parties and to be able to make proposals on all issues of common interest. The Agreement aims to deepen the long-term partnership between the European Union and Canada by ensuring mutual interest and responsibility in the field of political, economic, judicial and social cooperation through effective interaction. It is envisaged to promote interaction in a wide range of areas that go beyond trade and economic relations. The Strategic Partnership Agreement is the result of long-standing consultations, signed at a European Union summit on 30 October 2016, and approved by the European Parliament. Its separate parts have been applied provisionally since 2017, and its overall entry into force will take place after the completion of the ratification process by all Member States of the European Union. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with: 15 votes for the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is next. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u153	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, No 802-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 14 November 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Georg Georgiev, who presented the bill. According to the importer, the proposed bill confirms relations between the European Union and Canada as strategic partners. The agreement provides mechanisms for political dialogue by organising annual meetings at the highest level and consultations of ministers and experts. The Strategic Partnership Agreement establishes better structured relations between the European Union and Canada and establishes an institutional framework for cooperation and in new areas such as development, employment and social affairs, youth and civil society dialogue. The Parties shall cooperate to promote sustainable growth and development of trade and investment between them for mutual benefit, as provided for in the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. The Parties shall aim to establish a visa-free travel regime between the Union and Canada for all their nationals. The Agreement was signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016 and approved by the European Parliament on 15 February 2017. Either Party may notify in writing the other Party of its intention to denounce this Agreement. Denunciation shall take effect six months after notification. To the question asked about the connection of the Agreement and Seta Mr. Georgiev replied that there is no tie between them. The agreement is a political agreement and SETA is commercial and economic. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u155	Madam President, I request a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u156	Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting for admission in this House. Vote 88 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the admitted person into the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u157	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, No 802-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. At a regular meeting held on 14 November 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, submitted on 15 October 2018. The reasons of the bill were presented by Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs." In his statement, he stressed that the Agreement provides mechanisms for effective political dialogue by organising annual meetings at the highest level and consultations of ministers and experts in order to expand and deepen cooperation in areas of mutual interest and responsibilities such as political, economic, judicial, social and security. It shall set up a Joint Committee of Ministers and a Joint Cooperation Committee which shall make proposals on all matters of common interest. Canada is an important partner for the Member States of the European Union, and strengthening the relations is a priority goal for Bulgaria, which makes diplomatic efforts in this direction and they are part of the implementation of the Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014. "Administration of the European Union' (EUSR) The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with: 9 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018, No 802-02-25, Draft Law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u158	Thank you, Mr. Radev. There is no Report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, No 802-02-25, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. They voted 102 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, dear Dr. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u159	Madam President, I would ask for a procedure for the newly adopted First Voting Bill to be dealt with in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u160	Thank you. We are voting, honourable Members, the procedural proposal to accept Ratification at second reading. 99 MPs voted: 94, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u161	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part A single member. The strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u162	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote. I put to the vote at second reading the instrument for ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Vote 113 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MOVEMENT OF THE ROADS. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 23 November 2018 with importers: Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs, 10 May 2018; Council of Ministers, 1 June 2018; Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, 14 November 2018. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u163	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll allow me, I'll first do a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly for admission to plenary. Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Commissioner Rosen Rapchev, Head of the Road Police Department, Mrs. Vesela Nacheva, Head of Staff of the Minister of Regional Development, Mr. Veselin Davidov, Member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, Mr. Anton Antonov, Director of the National Toll Management, Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Executive Director of the Ministry of Automobile Administration, and Ms. Tsetka Docheva, Head of the Department of Administrative Punitive Activities and Responsible Authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u164	Dear Members of Parliament, we are about to allow a large group of individuals in this House. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u165	Thank you. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act adopted at the first vote, No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 10 May 2018, Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018, and Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018, Draft for a second vote. "Renewal and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act" (prom., SG No. ...). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u166	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. They voted 102 MPs: 79, none, abstention 23. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to drop paragraph 1. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 3 after the words defined by the Minister of Internal Affairs, a comma is placed and an Executive Agency is added, a National Toll Management Agency is appointed by the Executive Director for Control and after the words a comma is placed and a National Toll Management is added at the Agency Road Infrastructure, designated by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u167	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Svilenski and Danchev for dropping the paragraph, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 35 against 47, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 1. They voted 118 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u168	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u169	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 2. They voted 114 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u170	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it t. Two is canceled. 2. The creation of para. 2: The owner shall not allow the movement of a road vehicle on a road covered by the paid road network if the obligations relating to the setting of the amount and payment of the relevant fee under art are not fulfilled for the road vehicle. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act according to the category of the road vehicle. If a user is entered in the registration certificate, the obligation shall be fulfilled by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u171	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 3. They voted 109 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u172	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The traffic of road vehicles included in the scope of the paid road network shall be carried out after fulfilling the relevant obligations relating to the setting of the amount and payment of the road charges under Art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act. 2. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: The driver of a road vehicle shall be obliged, before travelling on a road covered by the paid road network, to pay the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the Roads Act in cases where one is due according to the category of the road vehicle, except where the fee is paid by a third party. (7) The driver of a road vehicle of the category under art. 10b, para. 3 of the Roads Act is obliged before road traffic included in the scope of the paid road network to purchase a route map for the sections of the paid road network to be used or to fulfil the relevant obligations for establishing the distance travelled and payment of the fee due under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act, except where those obligations are fulfilled by a third party.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u173	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 4. They voted 116 MPs: for 92, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u174	According to § 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Only motor vehicles and trailers registered and registered with registration plates placed at the designated places shall be permitted on roads open to public use. Roads included in the scope of the paid road network shall only be allowed to road vehicles for which the obligations for establishing the size and payment of the road charges under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act. 2. In para. 2 in a sentence, first after the words the motor vehicles and trailers which they call on shall be commaed and the order for providing data on the registered road vehicles shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u175	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 5. They voted 115 MPs: 91, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u176	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the words "special road vehicles intended to combat fires' and the comma after them shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3, p. 6 after the word "Line" the comma is placed and the special road vehicles of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population of the Ministry of Interior are added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u177	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting for the wording of § 6 in the version of the Commission on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u178	They voted 123 MPs: 97, none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u180	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of § 7 by importer. They voted 108 MPs: 90, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u181	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev: The following amendments shall be made in § 8: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, b. In the new content of p. 11 the words "the tax" under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1s and 1s shall be replaced by the due fees referred to in Article 1. 10, para. 1s and at the end of the sentence after the word the roads shall be commaed and added to the payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the same law. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in b. The words "the tax" under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1s are replaced by the fees referred to in Article 1. 10, para. 1 and 2 b) in b. The comma in front of the words. 1 is removed and they are replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165 the following 1. In para. 1 t. 11 is amended as follows: "11." carry out control of compliance with the road traffic obligation covered by the paid road network after payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the Roads Act; 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 after the words the vehicle shall be a comma and shall finally be added with the payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the Roads Act. (b) point 11 is repealed; (c) create a t. 12: ..12. have the right to process card payments of fines due via POS terminal devices
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u182	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev for the text of § 8. They voted 119 MPs: 33, against 30, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u184	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 9. Vote 108 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u185	According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 167 is created. 3a and 3b: In the case of road vehicles leaving the Republic of Bulgaria, the Customs Agency shall control the routes of the carriers and may, for this purpose, verify their compliance with the declared data. (3b) Officials of the Customs Agency: 1. exercise control over the payment of the fees under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act for the relevant category of motor vehicle which has arrived at a border crossing point in the direction of exit from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and provide the possibility of payment by bank, card payment or cash of the fees under art. 10, para. Art. 2, Art. 10a, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10b, para. 5 of the Law on Roads; 2. draw up and award acts for the establishment of administrative infringements under art. 179, para. 3 and 3a; 3. do not allow exit from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a motor vehicle for which the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Roads; 4. seize and retain certificates of registration of a motor vehicle in the cases envisaged by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u186	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 10, supported by the Commission, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 88, against 5, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u187	According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev: In § 11 in the creations art. 167a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Al. 1 is amended as follows: The control of compliance with the road traffic obligation covered by the paid road network after payment of the fees payable under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act and on the payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the same law shall be carried out by means of the electronic system for the collection of tolls under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act, maintained by the State Enterprise. 2. In para. 3 the words "Agency" "Agency Road Infrastructure" are created and replaced by "Agency State Enterprise" "National Toll Management." 3. In para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) the introductory phrase shall be amended as follows: 1 except for the powers of art. 165, para. 2, as defined by the Minister of Interior: (b) t. 1.. drop out; (c) c. 7 words outside the structure of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the comma in front of them are dropped. 4. In para. 6, in a sentence second, the words "supplied by decision of the Board of Directors of the Agency of Road Infrastructure" shall be replaced by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works designated by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. 5. In para. 7 the following amendments shall be made: (a) the first sentence shall be amended as follows: the Offices designated by the Minister of Interior under art. 165, para. 1 shall be entitled to access the electronic system under para. 3 as well as the records led by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. (b) in sentence two, the words "to these registers' shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 167a: Art. 167a. (1) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall exercise control over the payment of the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act through the electronic charging system. (2) In the performance of its functions under this law, the officials appointed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Agency shall: 1. stop moving motor vehicles by means of a red light stop-stick signal describing a semi-circle, as a stop signal can also be issued by a moving vehicle of the 2. for the identification of infringements under art. 179, para. 3 C use technical means or systems recording or recording the date, the exact time of the infringement and/or the plate with the registration number of the road vehicle, as well as those for measuring the dimensions, mass or axle load of motor vehicles; 3. exercise control over compliance with the obligations for payment of the fees under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Roads; 4. provide the possibility for card payment of the relevant fees under art. 10, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10a, para. 2 of the Law on Roads; 5. do not allow traffic on a road covered by the paid road network on a motor vehicle for which the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Roads; 6. seize and retain certificates of registration of a motor vehicle in the cases provided by law; 7. check the created records under para. 3 and, on their basis, draw up acts establishing administrative violations, subject to the provisions of art. Art. 189f. and Art. 189f. 189g; 8. draw up and award acts for the establishment of administrative infringements and award electronic slips for infringements under art. 179, para. 3 c. (3) The electronic system for the collection of tolls under art. 10, para. 1 of the Road Law creates reports of any established infringement under art. 179, para. 3 C to which static images in the form of photo material and/or dynamic images are automatically applied. The reports, together with the static images attached to them in the form of photography and/or dynamic images, shall provide evidence of the circumstances of the road vehicle, its registration plate, the date, time and place of movement by road covered by the paid road network and the location of the vehicle part of the system. (4) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall establish and maintain an information system in which the reports under para. 3 and electronic tickets for infringements under art. 179, para. 3 c. The rules for the establishment and operation of the information system shall be adopted by decision of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The information system may store and draw up, but not served invitations to draw up acts establishing administrative violations, acts establishing administrative violations and criminal decrees for infringements under art. 179, para. 3 C if they meet the requirements for an electronic document and are signed with a qualified electronic signature. (5) The bodies referred to in art. 165 and 167, para. 3 3b have access to the electronic system under para. 3 and to the information system under para. 4 for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the obligation to pay the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act. (6) The officials designated by the Management Board of the Agency shall have the right of access to the registers of ownership, use, type, category, total technically permissible maximum mass, number of axles and environmental category of recorded by the system under para. 1 road vehicles. (7) The exchange of information, conditions and arrangements for access to the electronic system under para. 3, to the information system under para. 4 and to the registers led by the Ministry of Interior shall be governed by an instruction issued jointly by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u188	Are there any statements on the Paragraph 11 texts? Mr. Svilensky, you are the importer of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Thank you for attending the Chamber, as I will have questions for you. I also hope you'll answer, unlike the last time you were and didn't answer. The proposal we are making with my colleague Dimitar Danchev is in the direction of the toll system or the so-called national toll management to be a state enterprise and not a directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Why are we making this offer? The last argument I will say is because this is how the World Bank prescribed in its advisory report, on the basis of which the Council of Ministers adopted a strategy for the introduction of this tol system, and it says that it must be carried out by a state enterprise, must be a state company. You are now in a hurry to introduce this toll system, when we talk that there is no system and that the Council of Ministers is absent in this debate, we see the examples showing, when the state is absent, when the Council of Ministers is absent, what should the MPs do, in order to be able to start this toll system at the beginning of January, for more than three and a half tons of vehicles, in August, start looking for a way to save the situation and propose that this system be managed by a state enterprise. Dear colleagues, you know better than I do what a state enterprise is being set up for, and for what purposes the agencies of the Council of Ministers are being set up. The role of agencies is not to collect fees! The role of the Agency is to form a policy and monitor compliance with legislation and the laws that we adopt. The fees are collected by other agencies, and I give examples of other state-owned companies, state-owned enterprises: the National Company "Railway Infrastructure" collects railway charges, Port Infrastructure collects port charges, Air Traffic Guide collects airport charges. There is no other revenue agency outside the National Revenue Agency to raise money. Transparency in the spending of these funds, in the collection of a state-owned enterprise is much greater than if there is one Directorate in the Road Infrastructure Agency, because these state-owned enterprises have management boards, they have audit committees, they are subject to audit. The Agency doesn't have these things. The Agency doesn't have the incentive to work under market conditions! There's an administration there. This structure, which will deal with the toll system, must adapt to market conditions, must offer attractive means of collection, of offering these services. Yesterday at the Commission I asked the question, I received an answer from Mr Glossov. I received a reply that immediately after the launch of the Tol system the system would be launched towards the disclosure of such a state-owned enterprise and the transition to a state-owned company. However, I found out afterwards that the Deputy Minister of Transport did not support this proposal. He was against all the proposals made by the BSP. And BSP is proposing: to be a state enterprise! My question to the Council of Ministers is: is it ultimately the will of the Council of Ministers to be a state enterprise, or is it to be the directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency? I will quote one statement from August 2017, a year ago and four months ago: "From today we are starting the structuring of a state company that will operate tol system, but we will not terminate the contract for choice of contractor and both processes will be parallel. If we can rank a participant through public procurement, we will continue in the old order. That's what Minister Nankov said, then. He added that there should be a project company because it will operate and maintain the system and the resource it will generate and maintain the system. " What we make as a commitment a week ago, we carry it out, " he stressed. Dear Mr. Nankov, today, as Deputy Minister, what exactly did you fulfill from the commitment you made a year and a half ago? Where is this state project company? What measures did you set up to be structured from August last year to December this year? What measures do you think you should answer for the launch, the formation, the formation, as you would like to call it, of such a state-owned company to take over? Or were you just standing there waiting for this whole system to go by itself?! There is no way Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Ivanov can make and implement the system in Bulgaria themselves! They are willing, I see them are very active, they offer laws, but here we need the expertise and potential of the entire state administration. And the state is absent! Madam Minister, please answer the question: what is the position of the Ministry of Regional Development? Mr. Tzipov, if he's here, I heard we let him in... There's no one from the Ministry of Interior?! [[Noise and lines.]] I don't see him? Okay, if there's someone from the Ministry of Interior, tell them the position of the Ministry of Interior on being a state-owned company! Thank you. [[(Weak applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u190	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? Yeah. Mr. Letifov, come in for a line. You have the floor. Mr. Nenkov then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, dear colleagues! I will agree with you in a large part of the speech. Yes, this is the recommendation from the World Bank Report on what toll management should look like, but you should have gone back a little bit further for a process or processes, or a decision-making system how this is happening and where this vicious practice comes from, that once again an important policy which concerns not only Bulgaria but all who cross the territory of Bulgaria is taken at the last moment, at twelve to five, is assigned to MPs, which, of course, is not in itself a vicious practice, but have been charged by the people's representatives, experts, working group and the Commission to fix what was created here, in the National Assembly, but today with joint efforts of the Commission, we will try to adopt something that will work. Of course, six months later we will change it, because something has not been done in time and because the Council of Ministers has not thought to submit this important policy as a legislative initiative to discuss, to see the weaknesses, and today to look more calmly. But, of course, I accept that this is also the duty of the National Assembly to look at these things, and we to make some quality decisions. However, you neglected to say that this oversight would actually have put Bulgarian carriers at a disadvantage because they would have been discriminated against to a small extent at the expense of transit or foreign carriers because they would have suffered more sanctions. So I hope today, truly with reason and with much work, that a good text will be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u192	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Nenkov, and third line, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Svilenski, I agree with you, and if we speak objectively on this subject, we cannot fail to note that there is no doubt that a whole new philosophy for charging the Republican road network with a very complex system which is also mixed for both cars and heavy goods, and there is no doubt that there will probably be problems. There will probably also be a need to be approached in the future, if you will both legislatively, naturally and the Ministry, and the Agency must make every effort to minimize all possible obstacles that we will face. I am absolutely in agreement and perhaps in the future we should move on to a separate state-owned enterprise that is involved in this activity. At the moment, due to the complexity of the system that lies ahead of us, given the capacity that the Road Infrastructure Agency itself has to do so far, I think it is appropriate for it to start this way. I don't think this will violate the overall philosophy of the implementation and commissioning of this system. Once again, the expert potential of the Agency, which is currently doing so, and is under the direct authority of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, would be good at least at the beginning to work this way and this Directorate would actually carry out the implementation itself. We'll probably get to that point in the future. That's not even a line, I rather agree with you. However, I do not think that it is appropriate for this to happen at the moment, especially, as we have said, yes, we are pressed by the time. A lot of things have slowed down in time, but we've set a deadline since January 1st, we have to do it anyway. The easiest thing was to extend the deadline, but we do not, on the contrary, want from 1 January, because it is to the detriment of the state and the revenues from these fees, if we delay ourselves by, for example, one year to look for an even more optimal version of legislation or other measures that the Ministry and the Agency can take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u194	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u195	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, guests, MPs! Colleague Svilensky, I asked for a line because the question you asked is, in my opinion, valuable. It was also put by colleagues from our parliamentary group, and they formulated the task as follows: which of the three forms is best for governance, which form will best achieve this task? I answered them purely theoretically. Congratulations on that! I don't know by what criteria, but you say you should go either to a project of a company or to a state enterprise. The colleague Nenkov explained the considerations as an importer, and in the context of the debate, I take it that, at this stage, colleagues have adopted, so that there is no doubt that there is no suspicion that there is no reproach that something is being done or a project company, or a state enterprise, for which at some point you will say: we are giving him exactly this activity, it is so attractive, so important, we have doubts how this legal entity is being led? In view of the time and speed, the colleagues and importers, and the administration, and the Ministry, in my opinion, preferred the safe, administrative option. It is known to me back in time that the Road Fees and Licences Directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency has a rich tradition, i.e. it has administered such activity and is currently also administering the activity related to tax through wine stickers. I will invite you to remember your thoughts and questions and, in the future, to come to a consensus on what is the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u196	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For the back, Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I will summarize the answer as colleagues Kirilov and Nenkov overlapd. Colleagues, look, really, when we received the reply yesterday, Mr. Kirilov, on your line why it is being transferred to the Directorate at the Agency, the reasons, the doubts about the transparency and operation of the state enterprise were not expressed. The project company is talking about Minister Nankov. We're talking about a state enterprise. There were no such motives said. The only reasons were that it was the month of December and from January had to start, and there was no time to form such an undertaking, which is probably the case. However, Mr. Nenkov, the trial did not begin today, the trial began three years ago. Mr. Nankov, a year and a half ago, says he's gonna make the project company. So what we're talking about is the processes in which the state works, the legislative processes... Do you understand what the problem is? We're not starting to talk about the toll system now. If we had just started talking, and this is what you're offering as an emergency measure, okay. However, Prime Minister Borisov has been talking for two years about how he introduced the toll system and it is his priority, and promises where he went to open road sections and what he finds explains how billion, billion and 200 million leva will come into the state treasury since the introduction of the toll system. But he only speaks it on the highways, and when he gets back to the Council of Ministers and has to sign it, and he has to do it, he has to do it in a document. The Council of Ministers is gone, as you can see. And when he came a month before the discovery of the Tol system, Nenkov and Ivanov, go ahead, write laws. That's not gonna happen! We're going to rewrite this law no 82 times, 98 times we're going to rewrite it, because there's no way we're not wrong. You know, when it's done on its feet, when it's done without purpose, when it doesn't follow the strategy for which, by the way, 6 million leva has been paid, and I ask: why did you pay, Mrs Avramova, a representative of the Ministry, six million leva for something you won't respect? Or is it profitable to say the World Bank only when it comes to the tariff and when it comes to the scope, and when it comes to really implementing the system, about the scope, about what undertaking to manage it, then the World Bank is not mentioned and ignored. Mr. Letifov, you're absolutely right. I said it: when it is not the priority of the Prime Minister and of the government, there is no way to make decisions and be correct because whatever the capacity of the MPs from all parliamentary groups, there is still an expertise that is in the ministries and it must be used fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u198	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am surprised at this dispute when, I do not know how many years of GERB management, you talk to me about how you will optimize the state administration, how you will reduce civil servants, how people who work in the public administration will become less and we will introduce electronic governance, and with each subsequent law we create opportunities for this administration to expand. Understand, this is not just about who is in charge, this is about a comprehensive policy on state management, which is in the interest of process optimization. Right now you're trying to increase the state of civil servants. I don't know how many. You know how many numbers there will be, but that's what you do. That's what you're doing! It's the truth! Instead of introducing one state-owned enterprise struely, it is quite different, according to art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, but there are no civil servants, there are labour relations, instead of introducing an enterprise that will be saddened because this is what these enterprises do, it is also within the meaning of a Constitutional Court decision, at the moment you are trying to turn API into a revenue agency. This isn't serious! This is not serious, and that is why I am telling you: let's focus on how to make things more optimal with this law. Otherwise, we can always say: "Yes, you are right, but there is no time. There's no time! Lately you don't have time, the state doesn't have time, no one has time, and we're going into a timeless time. I advise you very seriously: let us support the idea of becoming a state enterprise. It's not complicated. It's foreseen in the Law. You can't change API's Rules of Procedure by New Year's anyway. I don't know what kind of heroism you have to do to change it and introduce the new directorates and so on. Let's go the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposals for § 11. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 32, against 15, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of an importer in an version proposed by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: for 85, against 3, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u201	Mr President, honourable Members, since you rejected our proposal for the formation of a state enterprise, the following proposals that we have made up to § 19 including those relating to this paragraph, if you had accepted it, of course, for which you will regret that you did not accept it. Sooner or later you will have to accept it and keep the lyrics, by the way, since Mr. Kirilov asked me to keep them. On behalf of Mr. Danchev and on my behalf we withdraw the proposals to § 19 inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u202	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. This will make our work on the Report easier. Until § 19 the proposals have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u203	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u204	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the two proposals supported by the Commission and the Commission's proposal § 12 to be rejected. They voted 109 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u205	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Point 2 (g) is repealed. 2. A t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. temporary suspension of the movement of a road vehicle for which the obligations to establish the amount and payment of the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act until it is paid, but for no more than 1 month.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u206	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the reporting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making an editorial amendment to § 13, which becomes § 12, namely: "1." of which: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) point (j) is repealed; (b) point (s) is repealed; (n) the words "three months' shall be replaced by "one month'; (b) the words "three months' shall be replaced by "one month'; (c) the words "three
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u208	New editing, it's a whole new editing. I don't know why the procedure should... But anyway, the proposal has been made. Are there any statements under § 13? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that we support Mr. Ivanov's proposal that this is a restoration of justice, which was also harassment for the Ministry of Interior, and for the owners of transport companies or more car owners. So this justice, in my opinion, should be restored despite the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleagues, let us support this proposal by Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u210	Thank you. That was a statement. Are there any lines? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for a new edit made in the Chamber. They voted 115 MPs: 112, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the Commission Report.. An importer text in an version proposed by the Commission, the whole text of § 12 with the editorial amendment just made on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u211	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MPs Svilenski and Danchev, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 shall be created: the order for the enforcement of a compulsory administrative measure under Article 1. 171, p. 1 (e) and (e) In the event that, within two hours of the drawing up of the act establishing an administrative infringement and withdrawing the driving licence or the registration certificate of the motor vehicle, the fines due shall not be issued, in which case the documents withdrawn shall be returned to the driver, which shall be reflected in the act establishing the administrative infringement. 2.Create para. 1a: In the cases referred to in art. 171, p. 8 the compulsory administrative measure shall be applied by a reasoned order of: 1. the director of the territorial directorate of the Customs Agency, or its officials; 2. the organs referred to in art. 167a. 2. In para. 2 is created t. 3a: 3a. withdrawal of the documents under art. 167, para. 3b, t. Art. 4 and art. 167a, para. 2, p. 6; (d) 3. In para. 3 after the words "letters" "b" is comma and is added "de". 4. They're creating an al. 8, 9 and 10: In the cases referred to in art. 171, p. 8 The order to apply the forced administrative measure shall be served on the owner of the road vehicle, on the registered user or on the driver, indicating the registration number of the road vehicle. The application of a compulsory administrative measure in these cases shall be independent of the drawing up of an act establishing an administrative infringement. After the period of the forced administrative measure, certificates of registration of road vehicles shall be kept by the authority which applied the forced administrative measure until requested by the owner of the road vehicle or authorised by him. (9) In the cases referred to in art. 171, p. 8 a compulsory administrative measure shall not apply and the imposed administrative measure shall be abolished if the fee under art. 10a, para. 2 or under art. 10b, para. 5 of the Roads Act according to the category of the road vehicle. In such cases, the seized certificates of registration of the motor vehicle shall be returned to the owner, the person authorised by him or the person to whom the order for the enforcement of the forced administrative measure has been served. (10) Fees collected under para. 9 can be used by the Road Infrastructure Agency to repay obligations under art. 10, para. Art. 1, art. 10a, para. Art. 2 or art. 10b, para. 5 of the Roads Act with regard to the road vehicle or other road vehicles of the same taxable person. The fees collected shall be reimbursed to the importer if all the obligations have been repaid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u212	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure for the editing of § 14, which becomes § 13, namely: in § 13, the renumbered § 13, a new item is created. 4. "4." In para. 4 all over the words "in" and "in" and "thank you."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u214	Your offer's after all. 3 to create a new t. 4 in the version that the Commission proposed, right? With a text you suggested? Thank you. Are there any statements on the text proposed?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the previous proposal that we made for the change, the removal of the PAMs to the owners of companies. This proposal relates to the previous paragraph, which we have amended, namely the letter..................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u216	Are there any speeches to the text proposed by the Commission and the proposed editorial amendment, or more precisely to supplement the text, by Mr. Ivanov? I won't. We are voting first on Mr. Ivanov's proposal to create a new item. 4 to be included in the proposal for a text for a new § 13. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. Mr. Ivanov's proposal for editorial change is accepted. We are now voting fully on the text proposed by an importer in the version of the Commission for § 14, which becomes § 13, together with the newly adopted editorial amendment. They voted 105 MPs: 86, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u217	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Svilenski and Danchev, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: (3) A driver who drives a road vehicle on a road covered by the paid road network for which it is due but not paid a fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Roads, is punished with a fine of 300 BGN 2. They're creating an al. 3a "3g": A driver who drives a road vehicle of the category referred to in Article 3. 10b, para. 3 of the Roads Act included in the scope of the paid road network, for which the relevant obligations for establishing the distance travelled have not been fulfilled, according to the requirements of the Roads Act, for the section of road covered by the paid road network, which it has started using, or no route map has been purchased for the same, according to the category of the road vehicle, is punished with a fine of 1,800 BGN. (3b) Owner of a road vehicle of the category under art. 10b, para. 3 of the Roads Act, for which the fee due under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act, including as a result of falsely declared data referred to in art. 10b, para. 1 of the Law on Roads, is punished with a fine in the amount of 2500 BGN. The fine shall be imposed on the registered user of the road vehicle, if any. If the owner or the registered user is a legal person, a penalty of 2500 BGN shall be imposed. (3c) For infringements under para. 3 in cases where the registration number of the road vehicle is not readable or closed in any way, the driver shall be fined 500 BGN and for violations under para. 3a and 3b in size 3000 BGN. In these cases, no art. 183, para. 4 t. 11. (3d) If the road vehicle is fitted with a device for the purpose of submitting declared data which does not function and if an on-the-spot inspection by the control authorities shows that the failure to provide declared data is not due to deliberate interference in the operation of that device, the penalty under para. 3a shall not be required if the procedure for notification of the Agency is complied with. 10, para. 7 of the Roads Act. (3e) In the case of para. 3, 3a or 3b road movements included in the scope of the paid road network from the same road vehicle within the same calendar day shall be considered as one infringement and shall be imposed in the amount specified in para. 3, 3a or 3b. Traffic on a road covered by the paid road network through the same road vehicle from 00.00 hours to 23,59 hours on the next calendar day shall be considered a separate administrative infringement for which a separate penalty is required. Where with the same road vehicle of the category under art. 10b, para. 3 of the Roads Act within a calendar day is a traffic along a road included in the scope of the paid road network and in the cases of violations under para. 3a and 3b, punishment is required only by para. 3a. (3f) The violation of para. 3 C is considered to have been carried out where traffic is established on the road covered by the paid road network by the control authorities when checking the road vehicle. If the act establishing an administrative infringement is drawn up on the basis of the data from the system under art. 167a, para. 2 the place of the infringement shall be considered the first place where traffic on a road covered by the paid road network is established by the road vehicle within each separate 24-hour period in accordance with para. 3d. (3g) In the introduction of a temporary prohibition on public use of road under art. 9, para. 3 " 5 of the Roads Act, when this road is included as part of a route of a road vehicle under art. 10b, para. 3 of the Roads Act, in the declared data specified in a route map, the owner, the registered user and the driver of the road vehicle shall not be subject to penalties under para. 3a and 3b for the use of alerts and en route en route under the Roads Act. 3. Allinea 4 is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 187a: Art. 187a. (1) In the event of the detection of infringements under art. 179, para. In the absence of the intruder, the road vehicle shall be considered to have been operated by its owner and, where the vehicle is registered with the driver, unless it is found that the road vehicle is operated by a third party. (2) If the owner of the road vehicle is a legal person or a sole trader, for admission of the movement of the road vehicle without fulfilling the obligations of establishing the amount and payment of the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act, the owner shall be subject to a financial penalty as follows: Article 1 179, para. 3 " in a size of 300 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 2. 179, para. For the size of BGN 1800.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 3. 179, para. 3b (3) Where a user is entered in the certificate of registration of the road vehicle, the financial penalty under para. 2 has to do it. If the entered user is a natural person, para. 1. (4) The registered owner, respectively a user, shall be exempt from administrative criminal liability under para. 1 and 2 in connection with administrative violations under art. 179, para. If, within 7 days of the service of the act establishing an administrative infringement or the electronic ticket, a declaration stating details of the person who committed the infringement and a copy of his driving licence shall be provided. (5) In the cases under para. 4 on the basis of the original act establishing an administrative infringement, no criminal order shall be issued and the administrative criminal proceedings shall be terminated and the original electronic ticket shall be cancelled. In such cases, administrative criminal proceedings shall be initiated against the person for whom evidence has been found to have committed the infringement. According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u218	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15 which becomes § 14; the Commission's proposal to reject § 16 by importer; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15 by text, according to the Commission proposal; the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 17. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted. You have the floor for procedure, dear Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u219	Dear Mr. President, I propose that we extend our work on today's plenary day until the bill under consideration is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u220	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend working time to the vote on the texts of the Bill. Vote 95 MPs: 80 against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u221	And another procedure I'm proposing tomorrow as a t. 1 to be the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, i.e. to pass before the hearing of Minister Petkova, which will become so. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u222	Okay. I put the second procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 101 MPs: 84 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u223	According to § 18 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev, which was withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 189f: Art. 189f. (1) The acts establishing administrative infringements under art. 179, para. 3 "Zv" shall be drawn up by the officials of the control services under art. 165, 167, para. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 167a according to their competence. (2) In the event of infringement under art. 179, para. 3 - 3b before the establishment of an act establishing an administrative infringement, the control authorities shall notify the intruder of the possibility to pay the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act. Where the act establishing the infringement is drawn up in the absence of the infringer, the possibility of payment of that fee shall be granted with the service of the act. (3) The fee under art. 10, para 2 of the Roads Act can be paid by bank transfer or by card payment, and before the authorities under art. 167, para. 3 - 3b - and cash, the payment may be made when the inspection is carried out or within 14 days of the service of the act establishing an administrative infringement under art. 179, para. 3 " 3b. (4) Where the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act is paid after service of the act establishing an administrative infringement, the violator should indicate in the payment order the number of the act establishing the administrative infringement. (5) On payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act in the term and under the conditions of para. 3 and 4 and after receiving the amount on the account of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the intruder shall be exempt from administrative criminal liability for the specific infringement under art. 179, para. 3 (b) established in the act establishing an administrative infringement. In such cases, the owner, the registered user and the driver shall be exempt from administrative criminal liability for the administrative infringement under art. 179, para. 3 - 3b in relation to the specific road vehicle for the relevant road traffic case included in the scope of the paid road network. (6) If the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act is paid within the term and under the conditions of para. 3 and 4, act establishing an administrative infringement under art. 179, para. 3 " 3b' shall not be drawn up and, where an act is drawn up, no criminal order shall be issued and the proceedings shall be terminated. (7) Notwithstanding the imposition of administrative punishment, the intruder shall owe payment of the relevant fee under art. 10a, para. Art. 2 or art. 106, para. 5 of the Roads Act according to the category of the road vehicle. The obligation shall be deemed to be fulfilled upon payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act. (8) The control bodies may consult the electronic system for collecting tolls under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act and the data reflected therein shall be considered evidence in relation to the following circumstances: the place, date, exact time of the infringement, the registration number of the road vehicle, as well as data relating to the movement by road section covered by the paid road network, data on the absence or presence of declared data and the existence or absence of payment of the fees due. (9) The administrative file may be consulted by the electronic system for collecting tolls under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Roads, which has the power of proof of the circumstances reflected therein, inasmuch as it is not proved otherwise. (10) An indication in the information system referred to in Article shall be carried out for the acts establishing an administrative infringement. 167a, para. 4 until the end of the working day on which the infringement was found and for the fees collected under art. 10, para. Art. 2, Art. 10a, para. Art. 2 or respectively 10b, para. 5 of the Roads Act by the end of the business day following the day of their assembly. (11) The control bodies shall compile the act establishing the administrative infringement, together with all documents relating to its composition and the objections received, within two weeks of the drawing up of the act and shall, within the same time limit, send the file to the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Office of the Road Infrastructure. (12) Criminal decrees for administrative violations under Article 12. 179, para. 3 "Zv" shall be issued by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency. (13) For the acts drawn up to establish administrative violations and the penal decrees issued under this Article shall apply the provisions of art. 189, para. 1... 3 and para. 13.. 16................................................................................ According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev, which was withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Neykov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected. According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev: In § 20 in the text of the created art. 189h the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 sentence third, the words the Management Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency shall be replaced by the Minister of Interior. 2. In para. 3 words to the Road Infrastructure Agency drop out. 3. In para. 5 the words "Agency " on the road infrastructure" shall inform the person who submitted the objection of their decision. The decision shall be replaced by the person who submitted the complaint shall be notified of the decision under para. 4............................................................................................ 4. In para. 6 the words the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency's Road Infrastructure shall be replaced by the Director of the relevant structure of the Ministry of Interior, whose territory the infringement is established. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 189g: Art. 189g. (1) In the event of infringement under art. 179, para. 3, established and recorded by the electronic system under art. 167a, para. 3, an electronic ticket may be issued in the absence of a control body and an intruder for the imposition of a fine or a financial penalty of an amount determined for the infringement concerned. The electronic ticket shall contain details of: the place, date, exact time of the infringement, the registration number of the road vehicle, the owner or the registered user, a description of the infringement, the violated provisions, the possibility of payment of the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on Roads, the amount of the fine, the period and the means of its voluntary payment. The model of the electronic ticket shall be validated by the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. (2) Within 14 days of receipt of the electronic ticket, the person may pay the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act, subject to the requirements of art. 189e, para. 3 and 4 or to request cancellation of the electronic ticket on the basis of para. 3 with a request to the Chairman of the Management Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency. (3) The electronic ticket shall be cancelled when: 1. the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on Roads is paid; 2. the road vehicle has been declared wanted; 3. the road vehicle under a law or an international contract shall not be liable for the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act. (4) The Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency shall inform the person who has submitted a request under para. 2 for its decision under para. 3 within 7 days of the date of cancellation or the date of refusal of cancellation of the ticket. (5) The electronic ticket shall be subject to appeal under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties. The complaint against the electronic ticket shall be lodged within 14 days of receipt and when a request under para is made. 3 - within 14 days of the notification of the refusal to cancel the ticket. Within 7 days of receipt of the complaint, the Chair of the Management Board of the Agency shall send it to the competent regional court, together with the entire file. (6) If the fee under art. 10, para. 2 of the Roads Act, due to the full amount of the fine indicated in the electronic ticket. (7) With regard to the electronic ticket for infringement under art. 179, para. The provisions of Article 3 (b) shall apply. 189, para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u224	Statements? You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In § 20, my colleague Dimitar Danchev and I propose the control of the use of the tol system, the imposition of penalties or fines to be carried out by the Ministry of Interior, respectively by the Road Police, because we believe that the Ministry of Interior and the Traffic Police, respectively, are the most competent and they can best comply with the collection commitments, the imposition of sanctions and the imposition of fines. They have the power to control the tolls paid in the form of billings, that is, they have the capacity, they have the experience. Moreover, in recent years it has been said repeatedly about reducing the number of control bodies on the road. We are currently creating another control body, the so-called Toll Police, with 600 personnel who will be on the road and will control the so-called toll collection system. In addition to the DAI, Road Police, Customs, Tax, API, Regional Ministry, there will now be one more In the previous paragraph, when we discussed the need for a state-owned enterprise, I felt that we are all uniting around the fact that the right approach is a state-owned undertaking. Both Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Ivanov supported this idea. When this state-owned enterprise is created, we cannot fail to get to the Ministry of Interior to perform these functions, because it is simply the state-owned undertaking that cannot draw up acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u226	It could be a directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u227	What we are proposing is equally adequate and real at the moment, although the state enterprise has not yet been created to prevent these employees from being transferred. Regarding the fact that the Ministry of Interior does not have the necessary financial resources to cover the remuneration and costs of these employees in general, I would still remind that the system has been spoken about for three years. Minister Nankov has been working on the system for a year and a half, and should have put that money in this budget, whether it is a little more expensive than the so-called Toll Police. I ask you to support our proposal, and then to make changes to the relevant texts where they will be imposed, because a better body to control, by the Ministry of Interior and the DMV does not have, and the direction in uniting the control bodies is to reduce the control authorities on the road, the drivers to know who can stop them for what, and not now to have a series of control bodies each with their baton, each with their own car, each with their own uniform. Believe me, the drivers will never know who's stopping them for what or who's checking them for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. They voted 96 MPs: 14 against 33, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18, which becomes § 16; second text, a proposal by the Commission to reject § 19 by importer; and third text, the version proposed by the Commission for § 20, which becomes § 17. 100 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 16. The proposals are accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, because you did not support this proposal and our control to be in the Ministry of Interior, as the following texts are related to this proposal of ours, so the proposals from here to the end of the bill, made by me and Mr. Danchev, please be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u231	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. The special road vehicles of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection of the Ministry of Interior shall be examined for their technical performance by 1 July 2019. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1, t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the fees collected by the Customs Agency at the border control posts, including fees under art. 10, para. 4 and 5 of the Roads Act; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2, p. 15 after the words the travel charges under art. 10 of the Roads Act. 10, para. 1 for the relevant category of road vehicle which has arrived at a border crossing point in the direction of entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria (b) the creation of para. 3a: The terms and conditions of the interaction between the customs authorities and the authorities of the Road Infrastructure Agency are governed by a joint instruction of the Director of the Customs Agency and the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u232	Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: a proposal from the Commission to reject § 21 by importer; the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision supported by the Commission; a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 18 by text on a proposal from the Commission, and the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 22, which shall become § 19. They voted 102 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u233	Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov § 23 to drop out. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 23, which becomes § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on Road Transport (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 106a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "and determining the place of residence" shall be deleted; (b) c. 2 the words "and determining the place of residence" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 t. Four is canceled. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 1 "3 owners or driver of the vehicle within two hours of the application of the forced administrative measure moving the vehicle to a designated place of residence.' 4. Paragraph 7 is created. The registration plate of the motor vehicle under para. 2 shall be returned after payment of the fine imposed by the criminal order. According to § 24 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on Roads (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The 9th sentence is created second: the cars of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and Customs Agency with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, controlling the road, do not pay the fees under para. 1, t. 2. (b) paragraph 14 is amended as follows: sale points shall be disclosed at least in the vicinity of border crossing points, in regional cities and along the paid road network, and for that purpose the Road Infrastructure Agency shall: 1. reveals points of sale in the regional road management and/or at the points of National Tol management opened on the Republican road network and/or 2. enter into contracts under equal public terms and prices and according to the technical capabilities of the electronic system for collecting tolls with traders complying with the requirements laid down by a decision of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Agency shall designate the places to be opened up points of sale and shall provide items of technical and software equipment and/or 3. conclude contracts under the same publicly disclosed general terms and prices with traders under art. 10h, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10th, para. 1 providing technical and software equipment for the purpose of providing the relevant services at their own expense. (c) the creation of para. 16: The payment of the fees due under para. 1 is a condition for regularity in the case of periodic technical examination of the road vehicle. The payment of the fees due shall be certified by means of an automated exchange of information between the electronic system for recording of the periodic checks carried out on road vehicles maintained by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the electronic system for the collection of tolls. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10c is created a new para. 3: The electronic tart issued under para. 1 and 2 shall not follow the road vehicle in the event of the transfer of ownership thereof by losing validity from the day of transfer. The transferor shall be obliged to notify the Road Infrastructure Agency of the transfer made without delay, but no later than 3 working days, otherwise it shall not be entitled to be issued a new free electronic bill until the original validity of the transport vehicle has expired. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, the words "art." 10, para. 1 and 2 and shall be replaced by Art. 10 and eventually added to the fees referred to in art. 10, para. 1 for the relevant category of road vehicle which has arrived at a border crossing point in the direction of entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: A road vehicle which has arrived at a border crossing point in the direction of leaving the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for which no fee has been paid under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 and/or the corresponding obligations for establishing the distance travelled and payment of the fee due under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2, may leave the country only after payment of the fees under art. 10, para. 2 for the relevant category of road vehicle in the Department of Customs at the relevant border control post. (c) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 2 road vehicles for which no fee under art. 10, para. 2 for the relevant category, may leave the country only after payment of a fee under art. 10a, para. 2 for road vehicles under art. 10a, para. 7 or, respectively, after payment of a fee under art. 10b, para. 5 for road vehicles under art. 10b, para. 3 in the specialized unit of the Customs Agency at the relevant border control post. (d) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A road vehicle which has arrived at a border crossing point for which no fee due under art. 10, para. 4 and 5 may continue its journey only after payment of the fee for the relevant category of road vehicle in the specialized unit of the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (e) the creation of para. 5. Where the passport-visa checks are carried out in the territory of a neighbouring country, the Customs Agency shall exercise control at places of residence in the border area. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 27 is Where the checks related to the passport visa regime are carried out in the territory of a neighbouring country, the Customs Agency shall exercise control under para. 2 at locations in the border area. 5. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) In item 19, after the words "EURO V" the words "EURO VI" shall be added and a comma shall be placed.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) c. 34 the words "global and capital punishments' shall be deleted. 6. Annex 2 to § 1, point 19 of the additional provisions are amended as follows: Annex 2 to § 1, point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 Environmental categories of motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u234	The Annex is attached to the Report. Please continue after the App.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u235	Alinea 1: The specific mass of carbon monoxide, the total mass of hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter shall be determined, the ESP test for categories The non-transparency of exhaust gas shall be determined by means of an ELR test for categories "EURO III', "EURO IV', "EURO V' and "EEV'. The number of particulates shall be determined by means of a WHSC test for category In the case of categories "EURO III', "EURO IV', "EURO V' and "EEV', one test cycle consists of a sequence of points defined in the test, each point being determined on the basis of speed and torque when the engine is in fixed operating mode (ESC test) or under unestablished operating conditions (ETC and ELR tests). (2) 0,13 for engines having a cylinder cylinder cylinder capacity of less than 0,7 dm3, and the rated speed exceeds 3000 min-1. 7. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads (prom., SG No. 80 from 2018) The following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: (a) paragraph 20 is amended as follows: Until 15 August 2019 including road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall pay the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1's a wine charge. Depending on the term of the wine charges until 31 December 2018, including those road vehicles, paper wine stickers with monthly, weekly and daily validity shall be issued and from 1 January 2019 to 15 August 2019 including, respectively, a monthly, weekly and daily electronic bill. (2) Until 15 August 2019 including: 1. to reduce the harmful environmental impact of road vehicles shall pay the lower fees for road vehicles under Art. 10a, para. 7, p. 1 and 2 which correspond to the ecological category "EURO III" "EURO IV", "EURO V", "EEV" and higher as defined in the tariff under Art. 10, para. 6. 2. Road vehicles under art. 10a, para. 7, p. 1 and 2 which correspond to the environmental category "EURO 0", "EURO I", "EURO II", as well as road vehicles for which an environmental category under point cannot be demonstrated. 1 shall pay the total amount of the fees referred to in Article 1. 10, para. 6. 3. the right to pay the lower fee according to point 3. 1 for road vehicles under art. 10a, para. 7, p. 1 and 2 which correspond to the category "EURO III', "EURO IV', "EURO V', "EURO V' and higher', shall be demonstrated by presenting an original or notarised copy of the certificate of registration of the road vehicle, Part I, where in item V9 is entered in words "EURO/EURO/EURO/EURO III, IV, V. or "EEV', and/or by a certificate of conformity under Resolution CEMT/CM(2001)9 Final, Resolution SEMT/SM(2005) 9 FINAL, Resolution ITF/TMB/TR(2008)12 and a valid certificate of technical service. Provided that the category of EURO/EURO of the road vehicle is not entered in the registration certificate and does not hold a valid certificate of conformity, all road vehicles with a date of initial registration after 30 September 2001 shall be deemed to comply with at least the category "EURO III" and may benefit from the right to pay a lower fee under this heading. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (b) in § 22, the words in the case of the request for the conversion of paper into an electronic tart with validity corresponding to that of the valid wine sticker purchased in accordance with the order provided for in § 25 shall be deleted. (c) paragraph 24 is amended as follows: .................................................................................. The owners or users of a road vehicle with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes which have purchased a paper-based guilt sticker whose validity expires after 1 January 2019 shall retain the right to use the paid road network until the expiry of the paper-based fault sticker. The owners or users of a road vehicle with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, who purchased a paper-based aggrieved sticker whose validity expires after 1 January 2019, shall retain the right to use the paid road network until the expiry of the paper-based fault sticker, but not later than 15 August 2019, including. (d) paragraph 25 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For the period from 1 January 2019 to 15 August 2019, including in the case of an established movement on the road network paid by a road vehicle with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, for which no payment fee has been paid and for which no compensation fee under art. 10, para. 2, the minimum road toll due for this use within the meaning of art. 10a, para. 2 is a weekly wine charge payable for the road vehicle concerned. (e) in § 33 t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. paragraph 2 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019, with the exception of art. 10a, para. 1, 6 and 7 which enter into force on road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes from 16 August 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u236	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. Mr. Letifov, I would like an adjustment to the table we were looking at Table 2: where it says the exhaust gas imperviousness, don't you think we should have the gas output? [[Reference between the President and the referee.]] Let's vote on it as suggested. That's how we accept it, but for me, it's a technical mistake. Colleagues, there are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 23, which shall become § 20. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 24, which shall become § 21. Voted 103 MPs: 88, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u237	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 21. The Commission proposes to reject § 25 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 21. Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2019, with the exception of: 1. § 21, t. point (b) is replaced by the following: 2. § 4, t. Article 2 concerning Art. 2 139 para. 7 § 10 concerning Art. 167, para. Paragraph 14 (b) is replaced by the following: 2 concerning Art. 179, para. 3a, 3b, 3d and 3g, which shall enter into force on 16 August 2019. 3. § 14, t. Article 1 concerning Art. 1 179, para. 3 as regards road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, which shall enter into force from 16 August 2019. 4. § 8, t. 2 (c) which shall enter into force from 1 July 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u238	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u239	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I am making an editorial proposal in § 22, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019, with the exception of this. 1, § 8, t. Point 4 (c) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply from 1 May 2019 and shall apply from 1 May 2019. [[The National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and the rapporteur Halil Letifov make specifics aside from the microphones.]] Point 4 of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-06.u240	I put to the vote the proposal for an editorial amendment by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to reject § 25 by importer; the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 26, which shall become § 22 with the editorial amendments adopted. Vote 95 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted. Communications of parliamentary control on 7 December 2018, Friday: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer one question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Chenchev; Krasimir Bogdanov; Anton Kutev; and Vasil Tsvetkov and one question from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Alexander Simov. 3. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Emilia Staneva-Milkova and Alexander Matsurev; and Asya Peeva and Pavel Hristov. 4. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Plamen Nunev; and Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. 5. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Evgeni Budinov two questions; and Georgi Yordanov. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Stefan Burgeev; and Georgi Yordanov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov to two questions from the MPs Petar Vitanov; and Milko Nedyalkov; and four questions with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Hristo Gajev; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to five questions with a written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov to three questions; and Georgi Stoilov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Nikolai Ivanov and Manol Genov and one question with a written answer from the MP Polina Tsankova-Hristova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. Next regular plenary session on 7 December at 9.00, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
