ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I suggest to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period from 21 to 23 November 2018: 1. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act. Importer: Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 24 October 2018. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution. Importer: Council of Ministers. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Energy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the presentation of information in relation to the procedure for the selection of strategic investor (s) for the construction of NPP "Belene" and opportunities for structuring of the project. Importer is the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev. 6. Second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code. Importer: Council of Ministers adopted at first vote on 25 October 2018. Point 1 for Thursday 22 November 2018 7. New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Corporate Income Tax, adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 259 of 13 November 2018 to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Exporters: the People's Representative Boriana Georgieva and a group of MPs; the Council of Ministers; and the People's Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of Members of Parliament.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9. Parliamentary control. I vote on the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly. They voted 178 MPs: 168, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Proposal for inclusion in the agenda under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal is from the MP Delyan Dobrev: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that a hearing be held by the Minister of Energy on the presentation of information in relation to a procedure for the selection of strategic investor (s) for the construction of the NPP "Belene" and opportunities for the structuring of the project. The proposal is included in the Programme we voted on. Messages: Bills and draft decisions for the period from 14 to 20 November 2018: - A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer is the national representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. - Project of a decision to announce the town of Slivnitsa for a town of Bulgarian military glory. The people's representative Vassil Tsvetkov and a group of MPs are importing. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. - A bill to amend and supplement the Election Code. People's representatives Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Iskren Veselinov are importing. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. - A bill to amend the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Emil Dimitrov. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. - A bill to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. Importer is the Council of Ministers. - Draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers. Importer is the Council of Ministers. We have a total of seven documents. Next message: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised an extension of the period for crossing the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria, a residence of a non-military nature in the inland waters and a visit of the port of Burgas to ships of the members of the naval forces of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Turkey, the Kingdom of Spain, Romania and the Hellenic Republic until 18 November 2018 including. The visit is related to their participation in the Bulgarian-Romanian anti-mining exercise. The extension is required due to degraded weather conditions. The notification was received on 19 November 2018. No 803-09-65 and granted to the Defence Committee. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 20 November 2018 to 28 February 2019 a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian American facility Training Polygon. The preparations are carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2018 and are not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, to another State or organisation of armed forces. A unit of the United States Armed Forces will participate in the joint preparation: military personnel with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies, military aircraft and auxiliary and repair equipment. The notification was received on 20 November 2018 with entry No 803 09-66 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we continue to examine the first point of the adopted Programme for the work of the National Assembly: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. In connection with the Draft Decision, I propose to allow Mrs. Mariana Petkova, proposed as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Please, voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: 144, against 3, abstention 25. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Nikolova to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova. After the debate is completed, I will give you the floor to answer questions raised to you if you decide. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u2	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) insists the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber because the Prime Minister is responsible for all the government's actions, the Prime Minister is proposing his Constitutional composition. There is nothing more natural than to propose changes to the Council of Ministers, especially when it comes to the Deputy Prime Minister. The reasons for the release of Valeri Simeonov must become clear from the mouth of the Prime Minister, because we never understood the reason for Mr. Valeri Simeonov to leave. Since at first he offered his apology, it became clear that he did not need to make an apology, then it became clear that he apologized and finally we did not understand what the resignation of Mr. Valeri Simeonov was for. [[Noise and lines.]] We believe that the most credible source of the motives of this resignation is the Prime Minister and we urge him to come to the Chamber. We do not consider it normal for the Deputy Prime Minister to submit proposals for amendments to the Council of Ministers. We leave aside the Prime Minister's practice not to be present in the Chamber when there are no-confidence votes. The current act is seen as disrespect for the Constitution, disrespect for the Bulgarian society, disrespect for all those social and political layers which believe that democracy in Bulgaria, the responsibility of the executive before parliament are those pillars on which our political system is based. We demand that the Prime Minister come to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He'll be notified.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u4	Mr. Chairman, this is not a group procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u5	I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to present the candidate and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov and for the election of Ms. Mariana Nikolova as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Ms. Mariana Nikolova was born on 16 September 1975. She graduated from the University of St. Kliment Ohridski "Science" "Law" and "Public Administration and Administrative Practices". She's been practicing as a lawyer at the Sofia Bar Association. He has taken up the position of "Jurisconsult" in "Toplofication Sofia" EAD, as well as various expert positions in the Ministry of State Administration and Administrative Reform. He works as Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. From mid-2015 until May 2017 he led the Department of Legal and Legal Protection in the National Electricity Company. Her professional career also takes her to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision of the Ministry of Economy. He is a lecturer at the Institute of Public Administration of the Council of Ministers. From May 2017 until now he is head of the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov. He speaks English and French. Mr President, honourable Members, in this regard I propose: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 37 from 2017), Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017, ( SG No. 91 from 2017) and Decisions of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No HAS DECIDED 1. He released Valeri Simeonov Simeonov as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. 2. He elected Mariana Petkova Nikolova as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u8	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I really do not understand why the Prime Minister continues to persevere and is not present today in the Chamber to present the change in the cabinet. It is unacceptable for the small coalition partner to imagine the changes in the big cabinet. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB. A line from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] I don't know whose term he's run with, Mr. Tsvetanov, maybe you want to explain it to us? Is the mandate of GERB managed by the state or by the mandate of the United Patriarchs?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u9	The procedure, Mr. Ivanov. Make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u10	So be so kind as to present the changes in the cabinet precisely of those who are responsible for what is happening in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I have already explained that the Prime Minister will be informed. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u12	Aren't you going to support the new application from GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u13	Mr. Stoinev, come in. [[GERB lines, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is quite normal for a political party GERB to support Ms. Nikolova, but obviously we are leaving with a false start. My advice is, Mrs. Nikolova, just give up this post because you won't have any. [[strong noise, lines, cheers from GERB]] This support. Today the resignation of Valeri Simeonov, who is also not in the Chamber, reached the National Assembly. Simeonov is officially leaving after a long and shameful political system game with society. The whole government has to leave! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Valeri Simeonov's personality, his efforts to remain clinging to his chair, the premier's quibbles about what he can and cannot ask of the patriotic crutch of power are shameful, but also a vivid picture of this government. That now the ruling coalition is one of the most unstable projects of Prime Minister Borisov and GERB was clear from the beginning. I will not comment on the patriotic drama we are witnessing. There has never been such a strong devaluation of political in our country. Another cabinet member's resignation is not an exit from the crisis, but a deepening of the crisis. Changing individuals does not mean changing policy, changing the philosophy of governance, or a determination to reform. Simeonov is leaving, but he remains in his place is another replacement. Borisov's third government, apart from working in a constant scandal and crisis, is also unable to manage. This is now, ladies and gentlemen, a danger to the state. The society itself shows it unambiguously. The majority, I repeat: the majority of power is a minority in the big picture of what is happening in Bulgaria. The majority of the government does not deal with the real problems of the Bulgarians. It doesn't lead, it follows the circumstances. For the society Valeri Simeonov has long been out of the government. He was thrown out of power a week ago by the mothers in black who are still on the street. For society and the government, it's out of the government. It is only a matter of time before the political mechanism begins to work at the rhythm of public will. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Sorry, guys, but this is not serious anymore. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] I'm closing the debate. [[Strong noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Moving on to next point. Dear Mrs. Nikolova! [[Extreme noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u16	This is insane!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u17	You're interrupting the speeches. This is outrageous! Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u18	Dear Mrs. Nikolova! [[Strong noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure. [[Extreme noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u19	I raised my hand to speak. [[Noise, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u20	Mr. Chairman, I am proposing a separate vote on the proposal for an exemption and the election of a Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u21	Procedure. If it's a reverse offer, you have the floor, Mr. Kirilov. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u22	Wait for the procedural proposal to pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! I am taking back my opinion on the proposal of my fellow Member for a separate vote. I justify the need to vote on the two operatives in the draft decision, as it comes to personal change, not to change the structure of the Council of Ministers, and by releasing one owner, we should also vote on a proposed candidate for taking the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor in the manner of conduct and approaches the stands.]] In the manner of holding... after the vote. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Slivenski.]] No. Wait. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Svilensky. Let's vote... [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Georgi Svilenski aside from the microphones.]] Okay, it's already been expressed. One is the people's representative... I'm breaking the rules right now. One is the people's representative, who can give back an opinion and I already gave the floor to Mr. Kirilov. Please, after the vote, if you want, I'll give you the floor. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Khalil... [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor. Loud noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] There was a counterproposal, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u25	Different procedure, Mr. Chairman. If you are voting, I want a name check if you are going to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u26	This is something different. Colleagues, it's something different right now. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov. [[Loud noise.]] It's about the upcoming vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u27	Dear Mr. President, it has not been clear whether you will put to the vote the proposal of colleague Letifov. If you put it to the vote, I shall make a request on behalf of a parliamentary group for a roll call. Thank you. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the word in the manner of keeping and approaching the stands.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u28	Lists, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, what you are doing right now is a rude violation of the Rules of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u30	Argumentate yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u31	You take the floor of a representative of the left at the expense of the government. Why didn't you let Georgi Svilensky do the procedure he wanted to comment on? On top of that, we have a request from the chairman of the speech group, and you are not giving her the floor. You want to do a name check. What do you want to do? Anyway, this office is down anyway, you're hitting it even further down. It's better if he resigns the entire cabinet today and we solve the problem entirely. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll give you an answer. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Nino, I'll give you the floor. The procedure is the way it's run.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u33	Mr. Chairman! I'm warning you well! [[Strong noise, shouting from GERB: "Aaaaa."]] Don't give me the opportunity to speak as the chairman of an opposition party. [[Extreme noise and lines from GERB.]] If you imagine that because of the procedural moves you're playing, then you won't give me the floor to talk, think of Mr. Glauchev. I don't want it to happen twice. [[Strong noise, lines, voices by GERB. A round of applause from BSP for Bulgaria. People's President Jayhan Ibryamov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u34	Is there a procedure again? It's the way it's supposed to be. First, to answer Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Ninova, I was going to give you the floor after the vote on the proposal. I realized I didn't really notice you. I meant to. But I'm not afraid of what happened to those who stood before me. I can take responsibility at any moment for my actions and the decisions I make. [[Applause from GERB.]] Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow ministers, fellow MPs! Procedure in the manner of conduct. First, we heard from colleague Letifov, who asked for a separate vote on the entry point for the replacement of Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Borisov 3. There was a counterproposal from colleague Kirilov. You have spoken out of the stands, I put to the vote the request of my colleague Letifov. Then, by breaking the Rules, you allow your colleague Kirilov to request a name check. We understand that in the last few weeks a month, two, Mr. Kirilov has made these mistakes by violating the Rules of the National Assembly, and you, as chairman, allow this to happen. My procedure is for you to put to the vote the request of colleague Letifov for a separate vote on the submitted point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u36	It will be put to the vote. Colleagues, we're continuing our roll call. Personal explanation Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u37	Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I don't know exactly what happened to me to scare you. [[Applause from GERB]] Only I resigned if it didn't work for your memory. I resigned, so it's okay. However, you do your prostate arithmetic that you can't ask for resignation as you are 79 already. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. We'll continue with the inspection. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u39	Colleagues, up to now with the last six are 141 MPs. We have a quorum. Let's get back to work. Please take your seats. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Halil Letifov for a split vote. They voted 176 MPs: for 67, against 65, abstentioned 44. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, as I have already said, I did not really notice or rather notice at the last moment when I had already suspended the vote, Mrs Cornelia Ninova's raised hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u40	There's no such thing! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u41	Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several times you, Mr. Chairman, have turned around: Are there any who wish to make speeches? There wasn't a single one to raise his hand! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After you closed the debate, then the hand was raised and then this procedure happened. Please be principled because some from our parliamentary group could say that they wanted to speak. [[(Applause from GERB. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u43	Protect your deputy prime minister, we're waiting for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u44	You've asked the chairman a few times!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u45	Colleagues, I'm making a reference right now. I've actually closed the debate. [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u46	When you closed the debate, why did we vote on Halil Letifov's proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u47	No, that was a procedural proposal. Mrs. Ninova, if it's procedure, you have the floor. I had actually closed the debate. In a procedure you can talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u48	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Stay with your weight as chairman of the place you are occupying. You can't just three minutes ago say you saw Mrs. Ninova a little late, a little early, you'll give her the floor. He becomes a representative of the people, makes you here publicly in front of everyone, and you begin to fold. Be President of the Bulgarian National Assembly! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria has time under Rules 26 minutes, which is not spent! Three people were raising their hands! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't give in! You don't depend on Mr. Tsvetanov's chair!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u49	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u50	So give the floor to all MPs who want to speak and do not violate the regulations. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Since I have taken the floor in the manner of conduct, colleagues, I will only tell you that a month ago, when we replaced the three ministers, we voted separately on your proposal. Explain to me what has changed since then that we are voting together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u51	No, that's not relevant, Mr. Svilensky. Is it procedure? A statement. Mrs. Ninova, you're right. You may have raised your hand, but I'm really closed. Here's Mr. Mareshki who's supposed to be my... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u52	Don't be ridiculous, stop it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u53	That's why I can't speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u54	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u55	I can give a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u56	Mr. President [[crowd cheering and chirping]] To keep your party loyalty, please give Mr. Mareshki a seat to give Mrs. Ninova the floor and the debate to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u57	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Mrs. Ninova, I can give you the floor for procedure, but please understand me.. We can see then and the recording, you can proceed as you see fit. We'll check the tape. I actually announced an end to the debate at the moment, and then I saw your raised hand. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor.]] If it's procedure, Mr. Zablyanov. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Chairman, changes are being made to the Council of Ministers today and a new Deputy Prime Minister is being elected. It is of no use to Bulgarian parliamentaryism, to the government and to the ruling majority, referring to the regulations you use as you see fit not to give the floor to the opposition. [[Laughter and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB and OP.]] The opposition has something to say to the government and I think what we are going to say is a large part of the Bulgarian citizens. If you have decided that by the Rules of the National Assembly you can be forced over freedom of speech, because this is not the first time you have, you are setting a bad example to the whole Bulgarian society, and that is not why you are in this place! So review your record again, find that letter in the Rules, which gives you permission to give the floor to the opposition and give us the floor so we don't take it anywhere else! [[(Loud noise, whistling, shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Guys, be quiet. The way you're holding Mr. Mareshki. I'll give you my word, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Mr. Chairman, I invite you not to give in to the pressure to break the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]] After all, we have voted on these rules. There was plenty of time.. several times you urged everyone who wanted to speak, made closure and then really had a few hands raised by BSP. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Look, colleagues, I didn't want to take the floor, but I'm going to repeat it to you exactly against this double standard protest all Bulgarian citizens; against this, when you are in charge, to say that those who do not register are a second division team [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That they've decided to keep exposing themselves, and now you're saying to break again... That is to say, what is profitable to you is that you read the Rules and Laws of the State, as the Devil does the Gospel. [[Applause from GERB.]] We absolutely agree that you have the right to speak and we want you to speak. You, Mr. Stoinev, made a very strong statement. I am sure that your colleagues will repeat it in different words, but the point is that we have heard it and supported much, by the way, from what you have said. However, the rules are what they are, and I call on the President not to succumb to pressure and to uphold the law. [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Procedure Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you are being conducted and I appeal to you, do not fall to such a low level. We've known each other a long time. I thought you were a man of principle, but you're in violation of every principle right now. I can tell you that personally you and Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, as President of the National Assembly and as the host of the meetings, gave the word to Mr. Tsvetanov at least ten times after the debates were closed. If you intend to check any recordings, go back in time and check the recordings when Mr. Tsvetanov has been given the floor for speech after the debates are closed. Mr. Chairman, if you cannot hold the National Assembly meeting, give the seat to someone else, because it is not normal for you not to look to the left side and close the debates. After all, we are not solving a mahlen problem, but solving a very important problem for the state. The whole country is shaking with protests, and you're pouring extra oil into the fire.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u63	Mr. Gokov, the procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u64	This is a procedure for you, Mr. President, not to overdo the powers given to you and not to forget that you are one of all 240 MPs. What you're doing is unacceptable, Mr. Chairman. If you'd like, you can answer me after that if you'd like, you can give Mr. Kirilov the floor to say some punctuality...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u65	Mr. Gokov, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u66	...to stir things up even more. So, Mr. Chairman, either leave the position you are currently occupying or give the floor to the chairman of the largest opposition party. Otherwise, from now on, I will believe that the attitude towards the opposition is exactly what you show it, and we will also take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Procedure Mr. Kirilov, then procedure Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I ask you, dear Mr. President, to strictly adhere to the provision of art. 61 of our Rules of Procedure, which expressly establishes when and how the deliberations are to be terminated. I will read it for colleagues who do not want or can not reproduce it at the moment: "After the list of speakers has been exhausted or the representatives of all parliamentary groups have spoken according to the allocation of speaking time under art. 58 and no requests for extension of time have been made, the President shall declare the deliberations open. [[Calls, loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, I don't know where you were looking, but I was looking left. [[strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you asked three times, "Are there any other speeches?" The colleagues on the left waited for you to close the speeches and three colleagues raised their mechanical hand! Then there was a panic about which one of the three, because you could point out. And Mrs. Ninova saved you! That is exactly what you have done, fellow Members. You have made an artistic fake gesture since the closing of the debate. I believe that you have acted absolutely correctly and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u69	Mr. Stoinev, you had a request for a procedure. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u70	Mr. Chairman, several times out of this tribune, I have called you not to listen to Danny Kirilov now do not understand that, looking to the left, he looks to the Patriots. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] We're on the right side, Mr. Kirilov. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Looking left, you can't see Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u71	To me, Mr. Svilensky. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u72	So please look to the right to see the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u73	The next procedure is Mr. Atalay. Then Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, let us be at the height of the National Assembly. Colleagues of the ruling majority, politics with emotions and stubbornness will not lead you to the goal you are going to! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u75	That's not a statement, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u76	He's trying to do the procedure, to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u77	This procedure, which you are proposing today, is a procedure with the aim of every political formation to come to the stand to express its political views. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u78	To me, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u79	Mr. Chairman, invite GERB, invite the Nationalists to come out on the stand and tell them their opinion so that the public can hear us. Colleagues, what you're doing right now is not in your favor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u80	Mr. Atalay, please to me, it's still a procedure of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u81	Mr. Chairman, what you are doing, especially you, is not in your favor at all, and it is generally not in favor of the National Assembly. Allow the MPs to speak on the procedure for changing the Deputy Prime Minister and the appointment of the next Deputy Prime Minister. In order for this thing to happen, we need some peace. I see that GERB is already flying... My proposal is for a 15-minute break, to gather the chairmen of groups of the Presidential Council, to decide the fate of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u82	Thank you. Mr. Tsvetanov, you asked for a procedure. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Was that the procedure? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I declare a 15-minute suspension of the National Assembly's work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u83	Let's get back to work. Honourable Members, a unanimous decision was taken at the Chairman's Council to proceed with the debates. Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u84	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today you have received another proof of your right when you want the resignation of the entire government and the change of this model of government. You have received this evidence here in the most important institution of Bulgaria. This is how the Prime Minister once again humiliated the Bulgarian institution National Assembly! Ten years in the government he imposes this style of no statehood, no institutions one person solves the issues single! Today you have received proof that the ruling majority deleted the word "moral" from the Bulgarian language. Deputy Prime Minister who bears doubts about trade in Bulgarian citizenship [[Noise and lines from the O.P.: "Hello! "]] He has come to present the resignation of a deputy prime minister who has reached out to the most sacred of the children and the sick! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Today you have also received proof of your strength they are afraid of you! A majority, which is silent in this political crisis, is a confused and cowardly majority, not a single statement by the first political party in the coalition, not a single presentation by the first political party of the new candidate for deputy prime minister. What does that say? Confusion and fear of you because you are right in your demands to change this model and resignations. This resignation is yet another, but it is a consequence, it will not solve anything because it does not remove the reasons for the state in which the state is located after 10 years of management of Boyko Borisov. This coalition between GERB and the United Patriarchs is doomed from the very beginning. A year and a half ago we said that this was not a coalition for policies, but for power, money and positions and time proved it! Two years of scandals and instability in government, which led to instability in the country. Do you remember anything else that coalition partners and ministers have argued about for two years, other than what position to take; which minister for whom he lobbies in tourism, in the economy; who is whose interests he represents here by submitting bills for the benefit of oligarchs. Anything else you've heard of arguing about? Dear governors, you spoke yesterday for six hours! Can either of you tell us at least five minutes of these six hours were talk about how to become the minimum pension 300 leva and the minimum salary a thousand? Hardly were quarrels about positions, about influence, about power, and about money. So a year and a half ago, we told you that the coalition was conceived wrong, it would lead to instability, and here's the result in a year and a half. The second reason is the politics of this coalition all the time in favor of the big ones and the rich. You claim that despite the scandals, the government has a program that it implements. Dear rulers, you are not fulfilling your program! It says, "We're not going to raise taxes, not only are you raising old ones, but you've invented new ones. It says you're going to increase your income by certain amounts you don't. [[Noise and lines from OP and GERB.]] It says that you will fight corruption and caused the biggest corruption scandals that put a stain on Bulgaria and abroad and in Europe. You're not running your program! The third reason to come this far is your arrogance, arrogance and neglect of public opinion, of an opposition proposal other than your opinion. You live in a parallel world. Every day you talk to society about what great economic growth, what stability, what wealth flows into the Bulgarian land and you do not see the actual picture that we are dying as a people due to a demographic catastrophe, that we are impoverished, that inequalities are growing, that health is in collapse, that education produces illiterate children. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] In your view, everything is wonderful.. two different parallel worlds.. Yours, and the one, of reality. Therefore, for these three reasons: a coalition for power, a policy for the rich and against the poor and the middle class, and hubris and arrogance, we have come to this point - thousands of people on the streets of the country. Look what they are protesting: for income, against injustice, against inequality and divisions, against corruption and they want a change of model and even the system! What's the change? How do we change the pattern? Which model? For at least two years we have been talking about how we see the change in the model and who is this model - the model in which politicians and oligarchs, regardless of who manages Bulgaria, are talking to each other and working for their own interests and against the interests of the people! You have given vivid examples of this model by submitting a bill to simplify the obligations of an oligarch to the state, and several laws with which to sue three skins from the people with new taxes even on old cars. This is the model in which politicians, when they sit here, forget what they are sent for, talk to each other about their own good and against the good of the people. I am not going to open the topic of salaries separately because these days you have given more examples of this when thousands of people are on the street protesting for incomes and because of their poverty this political class raises its wages at this time. [[Noise and lines from OP and GERB.]] With what face? This is also a model of inequality, a model of political hubris, a model of disregard for how your people live/our people! This behind-the-scenes, built for years, I know, colleagues, now you will return what was before 1989 to Todor Zhivkov, to Khan Asparuh [[noise and lines from OP and GERB]] Not now! Now, and in the last 10 years, no one is to blame you for running 10 years! You're part of this model! You are the brightest expression of this model today, in modern conditions. It is time for this model to end and think about the future because the parallel state today steals 10 billion. lv.! Your official, the one about growth and flowering, toss 50 million for Christmas benefits, 10 billion is stolen, 50 million Christmas benefits! Here, these are two parallel worlds! This is the model that needs to be changed! We want to change it, but will this resignation do it? No, he won't! This resignation just replaces one person with another. Is this resignation going to result in you withdrawing your proposal for the old car tax? Will you reduce the VAT on food and medicines? Will you give money to young families? Will you break up with this model of political oligarchic dependence, where public procurement is giving away not for quality of work, but for the amount of commissions? Will you break up with this model with this resignation? No, everything will go back to the way it was, and it is giving birth to more and more instability, uncertainty, not giving perspective to the people and the future to the state!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u85	Where's the future?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u86	There is a way out of this situation, and we see it in only one way - the resignation of the entire government; democratic, legal and constitutional mechanisms to get the state out of this state and the people out of this poverty and injustice. These principles are: resignation, early elections and whatever the people decide! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u87	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. We'll continue with the next speech. Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u88	Dear colleagues, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mrs. Ninova, you today have the theme oligarchs and policies. I was a minister for two terms. A lot of oligarchs who came to change their status as monuments of culture, I didn't change it. Georgi Dimitrov is still sitting in the cinema. I think you know them very well. What kind of oligarchy are you talking about at this government, and you miss some of the others I think you're lobbying for? Isn't Nikolai Banev your Komsomol? [[Applause from GERB.]] Isn't Vetko Arabadzhiev yours? Where does your husband work? Isn't this yours? What are you accusing these ministers of? They were my colleagues. It's not fair to talk populist like that. First, you took some sects, now you throw all oligarchs on GERB's back. Say at least one name. Why don't you deal with facts, but with populism? Why don't you say one? I didn't lobby for anyone. It's not fair, it doesn't honor you! At least in the name of my colleagues, I got up to talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House!? We throw oligarchs at each other, which is a recognition that oligarchs have, and oligarch is a person who is connected to power not to opposition, but to power and if there are oligarchs [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] They're here because the controls allow it. We forgot the point we're talking about. We're replacing Deputy Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u91	Who created the oligarchs? Who created them? I'm asking!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u92	Mr. Kirilov, we heard you from the stands. Thank you. Draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers. Why did it come to him? Why? It's not just the phrase that's been dropped. He reached out to him because there were protests, there was a discontent in various forms and with all sorts of demands in every protest in a democratic society, the power was obliged to do three things to hear it, to understand it and to answer it. Instead, for years the governments dominated by GERB operate with protests in another way. The first is, they call them in the cabinet and give them what they want, no matter what the government's preliminary programme is, no matter what the general policy of the state is, whether this request meets the request of other groups of people. Billions of leva are set aside each year in the budget so that different protests can be calmed down. It's the same in this budget. The result of this is that people have understood, learned that if they want to achieve something, it happens with pressure. This is the most secure diagnosis of the state of the Bulgarian institutions, including parliament. The people have abdicated from us, and when the people abdicate from parliament, the parliament has no meaning to exist. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The second approach is when we cannot respond to the demands of the protest because the billions are over and because this one is not from the sympathetic protests, it does not threaten us that much, it will not bring the tractors, as it is with the mothers of children with disabilities, it will not cause much trouble and then the protest will be insulted, condemned, tagged that it is organized by goons, it is on BSP as if those people there have no opinion and consciousness, and they can be led in one direction or another. The result then is that you piss them off, ladies and gentlemen! While they protest that they are not enough, you tell them that there is a lot of it is crazy! Today we are changing Deputy Prime Minister, and tomorrow we will change Minister or Prime Minister, it doesn't matter, because every next one will be weaker, because with every day of this government it becomes clear that the power is in people with money and not in parliament, and the opposition will increasingly be on the street! Get used to it! Get used to this thing! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you don't get used to it and you can't get used to it, accept it at last, it's a democratic state! Democratic country! The President of Parliament cannot say one thing, someone else can tell him another and he can turn his back on it! In a democratic state, you have to explain and talk to people, not take offense and buy them. The alternative is only one new elections and people to bring life to the Bulgarian democratic institutions, otherwise we all push our country to ruin. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The line, Mr. Rashidov. Second line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zarkov, with infinite respect to you, but just to tell you that you have just said something again before, what is oligarchy, the definition that is all rich people associated with power. I'll go the other way. Say an oligarch that is related to GERB? But I was a friend of Ilija Pavlov and many interesting things went before my eyes. And I knew Lucanov. I was just talking to you about Banevy, I was talking to you about Minyu, I was talking to you about... Who created them? When did we create them? Who were they on their sophs? Who hung around Borovets all day? If I write a book, you'll feel sick. Pray I don't live long because I've decided to write a book like Berbatov. [[Applause from GERB.]] You're wrong! Stop talking about it! It is not a good topic and does not serve you well. The oligarchy has been created since the time of Berov. I also remember the projects of Burgas, Alexanderpolis, the battles for them, and have always been connected with power because power created them. That's the way it is. This topic stop her, she's working against you. I only want to help you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Partly Mr. Rashidov said some of the things I wanted to say the oligarchs aren't actually here because of this government, they're here because previous governments created them. Yeah, maybe the blame is that they didn't make it go away now, but they sure as hell haven't been created in the last few years. The second thing is the demands of the protesters Bulgarian citizens, they are not directed to one part of the Chamber. Someone doesn't think it might be immodest to say this about our group because we didn't participate in the department, but some of the other parts of the room don't think that this isn't aimed at them. Protests are against the entire political class, against the whole transition, against everyone who has ruled these years, because the situation in the country is not because of the last years of government, but because of the whole period. These protests are also against the President. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo! ", by GERB and OP.]] After all, these definitions that you are saying at the moment, they occur during the reign of President Radev, they do not happen when he was a flyer. Currently President Radev is President of Bulgaria and you give a description that Bulgaria is ruined. Well, isn't he responsible? Isn't that what you're explaining, it doesn't clear you or him? They are all responsible, and therefore, a little more humbly, each having his political responsibility and empty words do no good. I can give you only one example of injustice from the last few days, I would say even cynicism, one word only for wages. You're saying to increase them by 90 leva. It's a ritual suicide. I say we freeze them at 3,500 leva. It's a ritual suicide. How do you explain that to people? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We need to return them to the level, for example, of Bulgaria's average salary, so that everyone can feel how Bulgarian citizens live. But saying to freeze them to 3500, not 3590, that's political cynicism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Your time is long gone! Third line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! Colleagues from BSP, a lot of you I know personally. Many of you are new MPs and perhaps what I am about to say is that you are not to blame for what has happened, but we still need to be memorable, especially when talking about politics. This government has never put metal equipment near the Bulgarian parliament. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You ran the country four times. Colleagues, these are the facts, you four times ruled the state and in these four times you turned the Bulgarian Parliament into a fortress. And I say that during these four times the Bulgarian Parliament looked like a second "Tsarevets" in the center of Sofia, i.e. a fortified fortress. These are the facts, the truth, the old MPs remember it. I've been through thousands of checks to get into the parliament there were three checks to be admitted to the parliament, yet the mayor of Plovdiv. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Indeed, facts are, so, fellow Members, again with a biblical expression I will say before you look at the fever in your colleague's eye, see the beam in your own. Thank you. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicators, thank you for your lines. Each one of them has its reasons. It's about the past. I and many of my colleagues have committed ourselves to politics to talk about the future. The people you're talking about, Mr. Rashidov, I don't know them, I can't talk about them with first names, I can't say good or bad. I've read about many of them. I grew up in the '90s when I talked about politics through nicknames of criminal heroes who were much more famous among my peers. The result of this is that since my class at the French High School 90% went abroad, most of them are still there. Is it gonna be like this tomorrow? That's the big question. Mr. Mareshki says: citizens' demands. Many of them are economic and social, clearly predictable, clearly calculated even we have put them into a budget, but there is a specific demand for changing the system, and now there is a debate, but what do people want to say, which system, what do they not like, and the Constitution? No, ladies and gentlemen, they want to change the real system of government, and the real system of governance is not here, neither with the President nor with any institution. It's locked in a small circle of people who decide while we make noise here. And people may not be able to express it, but they feel it with all of their beings, and this system wants to change. They don't want to change that or that, they want one simple thing: honesty and integrity. Are you capable of giving them away? [[Voices: "Eee!" and lines by GERB and OP.]] I hope so. If you are not capable, then, dear Mr. Atanasov, your memories of previous meetings will appear pink to you in relation to what is to come here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. The other speeches? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u102	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u103	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u104	Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Stand by, please, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u105	By the way, I want the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u106	Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u107	Mr. Zarkov, it's not your fault you're young and it's wonderful that you're young. It's very nice. Young people, at least be inquisitive, ask your fathers. I read an interview from a colleague of yours who only talked about politics at home, and ask how the country was built over time. It is good to know, because today you are young people, directly from the cradle you come to parliament, only I am 67 years old and I have passed everything in this life from the orphanage, through the Building Forces. In Pravets we made a city from Pravets, and so very late I came to Parliament. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are very quickly entering politics, at least some small bricks to transfer from the Building Forces, build a town, so ask and know more! It's not a question of justification. It's a question of ignorance. You have here and older colleagues, ask what it was, why it was, who created them, why created them? Yeah, I know them, I'm an older man. Even today I wear the nickname "Multak" without working five seconds with Elijah, he was my friend, he worked at the Ministry of Culture, I didn't work for five minutes. And now I will condemn one who is constantly telling me, it is not an insulting word, because no one has condemned the Multigroup. But what went before my eyes wasn't very good. Some people may even have them in the hall, passing through these cribs, so don't let youth be an excuse. There are no young and old in politics. There is either justice or injustice. Use these things. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. The way you're holding Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, just for the record, you have violated the Rules of Procedure again. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It was Krum Zarkov, making a line to him, Vejdi Rashidov. Krum Zarkov responds to the line, in the back, of course he'll mention it if he made a line and you give Mr. Rashidov the right to a personal explanation. I don't know what this is about. But read the Rules again and see that you have messed up the job again. When a replicator is mentioned in a duplicate, there is no personal explanation to be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. He felt hurt by Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Kutev and you wanted procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, by the same logic Mr. Rashidov felt affected, but by breaking the Rules in this way you are actually creating the next precedent. Because everything Mr. Rashidov spoke with mentoring tone, almost accusing his colleague of ignorance, of ignorance, I personally have no sense that Krum Zarkov is less educated than Mr. Rashidov. But the way you did it, we don't really have a way to answer that. My procedure towards you is clear, by violating the Rules of Procedure, you are putting a Member of the National Assembly in a position to say a lot of ridiculous things and to find that no one else can answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u112	Mr. Kutev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u113	And that the moment someone starts answering him, some nameless guy in the back starts screaming. This is not the best face of the National Assembly. And especially you are responsible for this, because today is the fifth time that has happened to you. Do you understand? If you can't lead the National Assembly, do something else. I don't know what you'll be better at, but you're not at it! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u114	You're the best!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u115	Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u116	By the way, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u117	Mr. Kutev... [[noise and lines]] I have a personal explanation, you mentioned my name. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u118	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Rashidov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u119	All right, Mr. Chairman. Don't you see, when Mr. Kutev has already been a soloist of the ensemble, Philip Kutev, whatever happens and he comes out the soloist sings. On top of that, you allow me to say the most ridiculous things when I say that all the oligarchs created them. [[Noise and lines.]] What's ridiculous about that? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] It's that I said Zarkov was young. I didn't say he was uneducated. The comparisons should not be made on this principle, but on other principles of proof. So I don't deny the education of this young boy or my respect for him...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u120	To me, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u121	So, please, put some order in! Mr. Kutev has stopped spreading nonsense for years to accuse me of ridiculousness.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u122	I accept what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u123	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u124	Mr. Bikov, come in, you have the floor to speak. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] You'll be right after what you decide. Talk to me, Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, please! You're going into another hypothesis Mr. Kutev just talked about. Don't! We're listening, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You're not gonna hear one shot...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u126	Colleagues, please, we're going where we can hardly get out! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u127	Okay, I get it, I hear you. I accept the note.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u128	Let's get back to work. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wasn't going to speak, but I was provoked by your speeches. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am impressed that in your analysis of the political situation you miss a number of facts that are fundamental in order for your analysis to be correct and then be able to make the right decisions. First of all, you are missing the fact that a year and a half ago there were parliamentary elections which were early and held by the caretaker government of your President "Mr. Rumen Radev." You've admitted to this election. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In these elections, one and a half million Bulgarian citizens gave a mandate to GERB and to the United Patriarchs to form a coalition government between the first and third political powers in the country. Not between the second and third, as you once tried to unlegitimately and against the will of the people to form a cabinet. This office is legitimate, he's chosen by the people! He wasn't chosen, he didn't fall from heaven, he wasn't appointed by anyone, he wasn't employed! It is not a public office, it is a legitimate cabinet, which has a right and which has also a parliamentary majority, as you have assured in the last few weeks. This is a very important fact. [[Heckling]] What are you facing with this important fact? You say: "The Bulgarian people want you to leave, to have early elections, respectively to have a office which may also make some legitimate decisions, as it once did. A week before the inauguration of the current government, the caretaker cabinet decided to purchase aircraft for one billion and 800 million. lv. Unlicensed decision, absolutely illegal! Absolutely illegal, because a public office has no right to make such decisions. You say: The Bulgarian people want you to leave. What base? These million and a half people standing behind this government, do they want to? Are they part of the Bulgarian people in your opinion? Because we're getting to the point where we have to have this fundamental conversation. Who is the Bulgarian people? Who's part of it? Are the people who voted for GERB and for the United Patriarchs of Bulgaria part of the Bulgarian people? Because we're not some people who came here on our own. We represent that million and a half. [[Applause from GERB.]] And that's why we won't resign! We will not resign because we have made a commitment to these people. And by the way, in recent weeks, we have been trying to explain to them that going out on the street is not the solution to the problem, because they also have such potential a part of them. They also want to go out for a protest so that their voice can be heard. We explain that we are the ones who should represent their voice, their voice being heard through us. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why we're trying to leave politics within this room, not on the street, as you're trying to do. We are not a revolutionary majority, but we can and must stop any attempt to create non-constitutional mechanisms for coming to power, which you have seen as the only way to return to power, not to change the system, colleagues. [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Philip Popov and Milko Nedyalkov.]] It's very funny when you talk about changing the model, changing the model without defining at all what the model will be. Because here today I didn't hear exactly what this great model you've come up with again. Once you came up with the model in 1987, you did it until 1997 without making a single reform, you went bankrupt. Yeah, it's part of the past. But thanks to this past, when today we increase and try to increase incomes, the base is low and difficult to feel. This low base didn't happen two years ago. It is a matter of accumulation, it is a matter of three bankruptcys during communism, of two bankruptcys since 1990. [[Applause from GERB.]] Well, what kind of base do you want us to have? You want us to get 5,000 euros a salary? [[Heckling]] We're trying through evolution, not revolution. The revolution is not a good thing. The revolution is when the foam rises to the surface and begins to be called elite. There has been a revolution, and the revolution has never been good for any country. For no one, not just Bulgaria! Unfortunately, there have been times like this in Bulgaria as well. I hope you will return to the Chamber not as a presence, but we will all try to bring politics back together. Because the place of democratic politics is in parliament! It is not on the street and is not through violation of the constitutional rights of a large number of Bulgarian citizens who have the right to travel and return to their families on time after work. This is their constitutional right to those one and a half million people who elected us to rule the country by 2021, and we will fulfil our commitments to them! [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. There are three lines: Mr. Popov, Mr. Svilenski and Mr. Nedyalkov, in the order of applications. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Bikov, when parliament is silent and idle, then the street speaks. And you are witness to what is happening today. Secondly, because you claim that you know the Constitution well, each member of parliament, Mr. Bikov, is representative of the whole of Bulgaria, not half, one, three or five million Bulgarian people, but of all Bulgarian citizens. And it's hard to speak for you here on their behalf. Because, dear Mr. Bikov... [[GERB lines.]] Yes, yes, we speak, colleagues, and it speaks many truths that obviously hurt you. So, dear Mr. Bikov, at least express some sense of shame, express some sense of morality! And don't give out estimates from here what it was before 1989, during the time of Khan Asparuh, King Boris and so on. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Do not make such assessments and try to shift the debate. The fact is that with this legitimate government in your opinion, the whole Bulgarian state is legitimately blocked by Bulgarian citizens because you have legitimate governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u132	Thank you. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the parliamentary group's time. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Bikov, specifically in your speech. You say, "The place of politics is here in parliament." Where are the politicians? Where are they? The Prime Minister is afraid to come, the deputy prime ministers have fled, and we are looking at a draft decision by the Council of Ministers. There's no one here! You should have left the Minister of Sports. [[GERB lines.]] There's no one here, look! Where's the Prime Minister? Where are the deputy prime ministers? The candidate hasn't escaped yet. I see, he's got more courage, he's standing in the back. He'll probably be gone by the end of the debate. You say you keep your election promises, and in that name you want to rule, and people support you. That is why you are not supported by 300 leva minimum pension is recorded in their program. He's gone! Double car tax hikes. Where did you record it? What program? That's why people don't want you. When did you say you'd raise civil responsibility double, triple? Is it written in your program? If you wrote it okay, do it, but you're lying to your constituents! And our constituents suffer along with yours because you have promised one thing, and you do not do it and do something else. And that's why you have to pay the price. Finally, you say: the Office does not have the right to make decisions. Read the Constitution There is clearly written the official government what powers it has. [[GERB lines.]] It clearly says how legitimate this government is. You are questioning the Constitution when you say that an office is illegal and that we call for chaos. No, we call for the Constitution to be implemented as it is, and chaos is here in this room, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u134	Time's up, thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, there really is a place for debate here in Parliament. And it is a good thing that our parliamentary group has asked for a continuation of the debate so that you too can take the attitude. Only in your speech, I felt a great fear of foam. This foam that makes revolutions. I want to tell you that if you do not understand the foam and we go back to the item we are discussing on the agenda, can you explain why we are looking at this point? And the other very important one, you ask: what is the change of system for us? What you define on one side of the foam, and on the other side the elite to which you refer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u136	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Your speeches and lines I intend to unite them because they were in the same direction. I'll start backwards. To Mr. Nedyalkov. When I talk about the foam, I'll be even more radical about the sludge I'll talk about. And here I'm not talking about the people, I'm talking about those geeks, those ruthless people of the scale, starting from Robespierre, through Lenin, and getting to our transition, who, on the back and despite the will of the majority, took power through violence, and millions of people died because of them. This is the sludge I'm talking about, not the wide popular masses that no one asked them about when it was revolutionary. Nobody asks the people during a revolution! To Mr. Popov. Of course we are all MPs of the entire Bulgarian people and I treat your voters with great respect. And I urge you to treat ours with respect. This is important! Because at times we start to look at each other as enemies, and we are opponents, and we need to stay that way so that people can be calm. Mr. Svilensky, you want to cause chaos. Of course it's in our hands not to let you. That's our responsibility. Another question is that you need to explain how chaos is because chaos is the powerlessness that will help the people you are talking about. How exactly will chaos help economic growth? [[Heckling]] The early parliamentary elections, colleagues, are an instrument for resolving political crises. The early parliamentary elections are not an instrument for causing political crises, or at least they should not be. And this is your wish. We don't have a political crisis right now on all indicators! We have no political crisis, no economic crisis, no financial crisis! [[Noise and lines.]] That's what you see in statistics! You want to build a vision of yourself and make it a reality. That's your right, but you're getting further away from political realities. And you will pay a high price for this not because we will be angry with you, but because your constituents will stop trusting you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you keep telling the truths and running away from the truth, knowingly or not, sooner or later people will stop believing you, and your people will! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you as a French delegation will be here in a few days. A few days ago there was a Bulgarian delegation in France. Mr. Bikov just risked you, but you didn't make any remark to him, did Robespierre say, what was it, dregs or what it was? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Squeeze, foam and so on. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u140	I didn't take it personally with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u141	This is a diplomatic scandal. At least make a remark to Mr. Bikov. He declared the French Revolution and Robespierre, who is nicknamed Incorruptible, to be dregs. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There's a French delegation coming. Dear Mr. Chairman, make a remark to Mr. Bikov, he just caused a diplomatic scandal. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u142	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I didn't take Mr. Bikov's statement that way, so I didn't intervene. Personal explanation? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He's entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, because my name was mentioned in a context in which I am causing a diplomatic scandal, to tell you that I am basing my attitude towards Robespierre on the basis of the reasoning of the great English philosopher and founder of conservativeism, Edmund Burke, who uses harsh words not only against Robespierre, but also against all those who have killed over 1 million people in four or five years. That was the logic of my speech. Mr. Burke, I suppose he also caused some sort of scandal between England and France. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u144	Thank you. The way you're holding Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Popov said that in a few days he is expecting a delegation from France.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u146	It's not me. It's parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u147	Yes, in parliament. I would ask you to note to him that a few days ago there was a delegation from France, personally led by the second of the last presidential elections, Mrs Le Pen, who was visiting our parliamentary group. [[noise and raging]] , and is most likely the future president of France after the failure of the successive ones who ascend to power without being interested in the interests of their own peoples. So I'm going to ask you, in the interest of justice, to mark these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki, you're right. Mrs. Taskova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, if I were in the theatre, I would clap loudly on learned phrases, extremely repeated, 30 years of the same words. You obviously don't hear, you don't understand that the price of this theater is being played here. [[Applause]] You really got those people out on the street again. You do not understand that the price is human destinies, and you do not want to comment on the real problems. Two hours and thirty minutes, colleagues, listening to who's worse than you. We know that! We know there's no one here to deal with people's problems. Tell me now that you're out of this room, which interest did you defend, which person exactly? What exact request of the protests did you discuss? How will you look at your constituents, what will you tell them? Two and a half hours of arguing about who's worse. Let me tell you: that's why people want to change the system. They no longer believe in tears. So many are all about the people and ultimately nothing. Dellas are needed, colleagues, not words!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u150	Right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u151	Please stop this theater, circus or whatever you want to call it, concentrate on the point we are discussing today and which we need to vote on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Taskova, since you will be coming out of this room, and I hope you want to get out of it quickly to satisfy the people's request, as you say, how will you vote on this point? I want you to tell me here: are you going to support the government, or are you really going to support the people who want change? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Is there a second line? I won't. Mrs. Taskova, you have the floor for the back. You're giving up. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear rulers, have you seen that there is nothing scary about having a debate, because parliament is where those things that interest society should be said? Of course, the main thing is: we must not forget what we are gathered here today, because the topics have become several. The subject is: do you need evolution, colleagues? Some of you are mimicrying enough. I'll also say a few words on the subject of evolution. You have raised another topic for a fundamental conversation about the elections about those million and a half who voted for you. I will also try to say a few words about this, but the main topic today, colleagues, is the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister. Here I would like to ask the government a question: Are you satisfied with your management, colleagues? Are you from the small coalition satisfied with everything you've done in a year and a half? Several accents: scandals every morning, and at the same time I see that the Prime Minister is not comfortable coming here, sitting next to you, Mr. Karakachanov. While you and the blue helmet are trying to make peace, to please those who seek their personal interest in this government, nothing else, the Prime Minister wonders in what way and how to bring the Balkans together, how and how to make society satisfied with what is not happening in their interest. A few words on your resignation, colleagues. Something normal, something ordinary, but before the resignation from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have told you several times: colleagues, viciously conceived government! Colleagues from GERB, you are the pioneers for forming a government with nationalists and you have become an example of Europe. You can't be proud of this thing and you can't be happy, so I asked you the question: are you happy with what you're doing? There is no way some extreme nationalists who have no vision, no idea of development, with just some populistic ideas that came and hung on your neck, gentlemen of GERB, and pull you every day as deeply as possible, to be satisfied with your management. The deputy prime minister's resignation was in his pocket the day his prime minister hung his stripes. However, resignation, colleagues, was not only necessary, resignation was compulsory. It is so late that even at this time when we are in this meeting, neither of us has any idea how and how we will get out of all that is created in society, with the protesters, with the rebellious, with the Prime Minister not coming to parliament, with the fact that the Prime Minister does not want to make a commitment how and in what way to give an idea and vision to emerge from this situation. That's what I wanted to hear today. This is what we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms want to hear today about how every political force will assess the resignation. However, we expected the government to say... do policy change, what do they change? If they don't change anything, will the scandal continue? Will Mr. Volen Siderov continue in the morning to ask for Mr. Karakachanov's resignation at night to be pleased with the Prime Minister that everything is normal, there is nothing that has happened? No onions ate, no onions smelled! Colleagues, we're not happy and we're not shooting fireworks that a deputy prime minister resigned. We look with concern at what is happening in both the opposition and the government. That's why your evolution is necessary, colleague. Especially the one who evolves all the time. I think he's changed some political formations. Therefore, colleagues, it is time to sit down and discuss that fundamental conversation really about the elections, the principles and methods of the elections that are being made so that we do not have to resign those who should never have a place in politics. Our respect for those who voted for them. Did you, colleagues of GERB, like the terminology, speak the language of the so-called "vice Prime Minister"? Did you like his statements, starting from the noise to demanding 58 million from the businessmen, and then the businessman standing behind him to support him along with the unionists? You, if you're satisfied with all this... I'm sure there are some people among you who aren't happy. There may be some who are happy. With all due respect to those who are still unhappy, I invite them to come out and say it out loud, not just to keep their mouths shut. Silence is a bad sign. Colleagues, you have time to rule, not rule. I look at you today pleasedly, pleasedly you've come all the way to those oligarchs that who created in what way. Indeed, those who, for one reason or another, run the country, have had enough mistakes, but today each of you had to say your opinion on what is happening in this government. To say why, for what reason, since Valeri Simeonov is leaving the viciously conceived government, we offer the chief of staff as deputy prime minister? I wish we'd had a conversation about what policy the next Deputy Prime Minister is going to lead on the portfolio he's going to accept. Colleagues, the topics are many, but today's topic, today's conversation is about everything that is happening in the National Assembly. Our respect that GERB understood that debates should be held here, but you must say: do you remain under the pressure of the nationalists, honored by GERB? How long will you continue to please their personal interests? One example: on May 22, when we told you: do not change the Law on Address Registration for Kyustendil and Blagoevgrad, because there we have certain doubts, today we hear on television that 100 euros is for registration of residents from Moldova to become Bulgarian citizens. Is this the policy that GERB has respected, which you tolerate by nationalists? With Valeri Simeonov's resignation, you don't change anything, I can see that you have no attitude. We sincerely regret everything that is happening today in the National Assembly. We are still waiting for a sensible solution. However, we expect the government to sit down and in this National Assembly to appear the Prime Minister, to explain the policy that you will lead from now on, whether it will be in the interests of society or in the interests of nationalists. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. The line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Atalay, thank you for trying to bring this debate back to the point in which it was supposed to be held. But you said, "It's not scary, fellow Members. Yes, it's really not scary to have this debate, and I don't see any fear in any part of the House having this debate. The point is, it's not meant to be. But, as we have warned, it is not a question of whether it is scary, but what is the point, and as proved by the two hours to date and how lost it is absolutely pointless. Partially you have now tried to put the debate on some rails and point it in a more correct direction, but this is a small ray compared to everything that happened in the last two hours. And in this sense, because you correctly ask the question to those in charge, are they satisfied with the government, and I ask you the question: Are you satisfied with the debate? I hope everyone gives themselves a meaningful answer to this question, and if we're going to keep doing it, it really makes sense to this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any other lines? I can't see. Dear Mr. Atalay, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u159	Dear colleagues, the debate is what we are having here. Mr. Mareshki, I have also heard the statement of your parliamentary group, which was not essentially, and your attempts to distance yourself from this government cannot happen, because your finger will prove to be the golden finger next. When I take the floor, a few more words, colleagues. Neither the National Assembly, nor the government, nor the Prime Minister, nor the Deputy Prime Ministers have learnt any lesson from what is happening to the country, from what will happen afterwards. You have no vision, no look at how, how and on what tracks the state will move. This is the main problem, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I guess the debate isn't gonna get to the point. Looks like after two and a half hours, I knew it was time for a commercial. However, we of Volja will have no way of advertising ourselves by saying that we stole less when we ruled, in principle, because we never ruled, much less we stole. However, there is much to boast about, which, unfortunately, I am not happy to boast about. Three million and several hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens are clients of our pharmacies and our gas stations. But why don't I want them to be clients of my pharmacies and my gas stations? Because throughout the transition, people have been put on their knees and have no opportunity to welcome the most important things of their lives. The only places where people are not protesting right now are in front of our pharmacies and in front of our gas stations and praying every day in other cities to have pharmacies and gas stations. Including your colleagues on the left and on the right, almost every day they call me about a town where their sympathizers have asked us to go and open a pharmacy and a gas station. People meet me all the time in the neighborhood and talk to me about this thing. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Colleagues, mostly from BSP, you know what the worst part is? That out of these 3 million and several hundred thousand Bulgarians who every month buy medicines from our pharmacies, and several hundred thousand who charge from our gas stations, some of them do it out of patriotism.. not for the ten, twenty, thirty cents difference, are not for the two or three levs difference.. as a fight against the system that was created, the same system that you all talk about, the system that has been created over the years. But there is one part left by all of you from the transition, which, if not our pharmacies, will not live because it is not a matter for them to save a few levs. They can't buy their meds. They are left in such a state, through all your governments, with all the pensions of 3 dollars pension, 100 leva each. pensions are left at such a level that if they are not discounts within 30%, 50% to 70% for some medicines, they cannot afford them and die. That's the naked truth! And that is why I want this debate to be conducted on this basis: can we create such a government that will provide free medicines for every Bulgarian citizen in need, but not provide another party oligarch, no matter how it is colored, some deal? Can we provide free medicines to Bulgarian citizens? Can we provide worthy pensions to our parents who have created what so long cannot be stolen?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u162	Mr. Mareshki, I'm asking you to step away from the topic of medicines and gas stations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u163	Yeah, I'm a little far away. I've moved on to pensions. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Can we create conditions to break the cartel's backbone in fuel? Because I've been here the last few days...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u164	And let's get away from there, Mr. Mareshki, please! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u165	Yesterday I heard where Cornelia Ninova's husband didn't work. I understand he doesn't work here, he doesn't do that, he doesn't do that, he doesn't do third. I just didn't know where he worked. What was so scary about saying, "He works in this position, he is responsible for this and this and this? And we should have said, "This is false news." Well, without the real news spoken by the man himself, of course false news is born if it's fake. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has been mentioned several times, they are all MPs of all Bulgarian citizens. Let's make sure that the situation does not become a situation, so that I sit down and continue what we watch for 30 years, but how to make sure that the government takes it more seriously in the implementation of the programme that there is, the opposition is a corrective who pushes it to carry out its programme, rather than trying to bring it down in order to sit in its place and continue the same robbery of the Bulgarian people. Let's be constructive, give ideas, not freeze our salaries to 3,500 BGN, but reduce them to the normal level, which is the average of the country about 1000 BGN, and freeze them there until the whole Bulgarian people prosper. That's the right thing to do. Everything else is, as an example was given... it's long since you put your knot in the square to go out and commit ritual suicide. No one will benefit from ritual suicides, no one will benefit from the change of Valeri Simeonov with his cabinet chief if it does nothing good for Bulgarian citizens if tomorrow there is no minimal improvement in the lifestyle of the Bulgarians, in the existence and work of the state. What's the point of replacing one deputy prime minister with another?! What's the point of switching sides with each other?! And it's not true that there's no alternative. And with his behaviour in parliament, the political party Volya has proved it. There is not a single MP from our parliamentary group who has allowed himself to behave the way in which Mr. Kutev correctly notes that someone anonymous replicated him, sat him down, left Mr. Rashidov, spoke and other anonymous people began to replicate him. This double standard, colleagues, if you don't change it, you're bad, we're less bad. No, get better so you like Bulgarian citizens! Thank you. [[Applause from the "Volja" and part-time applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines to Mr. Mareshki? I won't. Procedure? You have the floor for procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u167	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think that this uncertainty should continue as quickly as possible. We cannot hold the state with a deputy prime minister resigned for so long, so I suggest that the rest be given after the work is done on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u168	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The Rules of Procedure shall be suspended and shall be announced by decision of the President. So we'll get back to work. But thank you, it supports my own thoughts and intentions. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I would like to welcome these young people who are up on the balcony watching this debate. I am convinced that they draw the right conclusions as to what populism is and what real policies can be presented by the MPs to the Bulgarian society. This debate should have been much more productive. This debate was supposed to be a real clash of policies, not populism and what they are used to doing by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Unfortunately, those who thought that the opposition's voice would be taken away, I am glad that Mrs Cornelia Ninova returned to plenary because she had so far been absent from this debate, which they insisted would be held right here at that time. When we talk about policies, let us still say what the parameters are today and when they were able to manage certain political forces, they could have realized it and done it. Because the topic, which provoked serious public disapproval, was a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. Yes, indeed, both the Prime Minister and he and each of us say that Bulgarian politicians should not afford such missed words. And he will bear his responsibility with the volition of resigning from the Deputy Prime Minister's post. He only does it because of the national interest and the public interest, so that we can reduce the tension that exists today in society, which creates an additional nutritional environment for the opposition to take advantage of such things. But I can't tell when BSP colleagues are sincere and when they aren't. Because, colleagues of BSP, I remember the words that were said by your MP in an election campaign: With another group of security cops, we planned how to torture someone's grandfather. This is what this young MP who came out today said had nothing to do with the past and had no reason to bear that responsibility. But the call that was here today in plenary is to read history. Because when we read history, we can actually learn lessons and not make such mistakes. Did he take responsibility for those words?! He damaged many Bulgarian citizens who suffered from the State Security regime and totalitarianism, which we all want not to come back. What a left-wing MP did to insult all Bulgarian citizens and say that 80% of them were retarded, I would like to ask: did this MP bear any responsibility? Did you go out, say and apologize to the Bulgarian citizens? Don't apologize! I would like to ask the MP who came out here, from the stand of the Bulgarian Parliament, and called all the MPs the murderers? Did anyone take responsibility for this, or is it very good to hide behind a subject that is beneficial to the opposition, to be able to make it as a point of reference and attack the government today?! Did anyone say anything about all that stuff? Is it normal for a person who is currently being investigated for money laundering in particular large amounts and, more precisely, for financial transactions carried out with cash assigned by the depositors in CCB... Here the only person who can go out and take attitude is Vejdi Rashidov, because he had income, paid his taxes for them and put this money into a bank so he could count on in future years to spend it and enjoy what he has managed to produce all these years. But this MP is taking advantage of these investors, these Bulgarian citizens... And right now, BSP is coming out and they're saying, "But who are you to give moral assessments of BSP's behavior?"! What system did you create that you used, which you still consume, because these are the real actions that the Bulgarian law enforcement and justice system has today, so that you can actually seek the rights and protect the freedoms of Bulgarian citizens?! Ladies and gentlemen of the left, this is not a policy and it is not a political one that you can use from the plenary platform. What we can use from the plenary platform is when we talk about the facts about today's governance and what today's majority does, together with the United Patriarchs. I'm not gonna hide from you that we have our differences. I will not hide from you that at times the emotion is much greater in this relationship between us. But let's say that we have a four-year management program and we have made no retreat from the commitments made to the Bulgarian voters and what we do daily, weekly, monthly and annual. Dear colleagues, on the subject of people with disabilities, mothers and their children, let us remember what you did while you were able to manage. What did this MP, who today played out with the fears of these people and speculated in the public domain when 2013 - 2014 was Chairman of the Social Commission? What did this MP make as an offer, who today takes and edifies everyone else? Let us recall what the figures were at this time for the disabled people who provided the Republican budget lv. One hundred and eighty-nine million leva! In 2018, this particular government and this particular management programme enabled this money to be 263 million. BGN, which are to this year. And what this government does with this parliamentary majority, with this Council of Ministers, is this money for next year to be plus 150 million. lv. Dear colleagues, this is a plus 55% increase in 2019. Is this the bad policy we should be doing? Is this the debate that we have to have, and is this the debate that we have to have right here in plenary? Let's look at what the salaries were, what the pensions were not decades ago, we are talking about 2013 - 2014 and let's tell the truth about everything you did in the election period 2013, because you said you would stop the pension reform. You were against this pension reform, and when you had the opportunity to manage, you went out and said, "I'm sorry, that was for the election period, now we're in charge, and we're just gonna freeze it for a year, but we're not gonna change it." And what you did 2013, 2014 in 2014, pensions were raised by 2.7%. Just to remind you that for 2019 this increase will be 5.8%. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues from BSP, minimum pension how much leva was it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u170	£76.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u171	No, BGN 154. One hundred sixty-one leva was the pension at the beginning of the management mandate of the current government, and what we agreed with the United Patriarchs on signing our coalition agreement is to have first binding steps so that we can actually give some trend to increase the incomes of the lowest pensions received by the Bulgarian pensioners. Let's say that the first month this increase was of 161 BGN. at 180 BGN, the second step was 200 BGN, which they received for 2018 and from 2019 it will be 207 BGN (EUR 217) after the increase, which is expected to take place in the middle of the year. Dear colleagues from BSP, let's talk about how much the minimum salary in your management mandate was just two or three years ago. We know that 2014 you had the opportunity to increase the minimum salary from 310 to 340 BGN. We're talking about an increase of 30 leva. Let us recall what is the commitment of today's government and today's parliamentary majority, on which we do not have any differences with the "United Patriarchs" that is to increase annually the minimum wage and, of course, the good policies we make in the sectors, to increase the average wage. What we've done is we can talk today about BGN 510. minimum salary for 2019 will be 550 BGN and at the end of our management term it will become 650 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u172	660.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u173	650. These are commitments that are scheduled in the management program and at these points we can constantly argue with you, colleagues from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u174	Then why are people on the street?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u175	We have an average salary of 2014 828 BGN, we have an average salary at the present time - 1117 BGN, we have a commitment at the end of the management mandate to make it 1500 BGN. I thank all those who are actively involved in the debate in plenary, who are actively involved in the debates we are conducting on every single bill. Here, of course, of all those who are today in the Chamber, who have not participated in the government, this is a political force. That's why they have their principled position. [[Laughter and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] , sometimes there are differences with the ruling majority on sectoral policies, but they show very clearly their political commitment to their constituents that the interests of the country, the protection of public interests, of national interests are more important than the interpersonal biases of each of them. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What I can tell you, honourable Members, is that with today's debate you have gained nothing. And that you wanted to be absent from him at the call made by the President of Parliament, whether anyone wanted to speak, there was total silence and no one wanted to take the floor. When the debate was exhausted, however, because there was only a statement of one MP from the left, then in fact the only thing you could do and what you were doing perfectly and brilliantly is to cause conflicts, to provoke and to seek scandals. It's the only thing that can keep you on the surface. No! This will bring you down in the next moment when you go to elections because we have European elections, we have local elections in 2019 and then we will see what will be the assessment of the Bulgarian voters on the really completed policies and promises made in the election period. Political party GERB is perhaps the only one who has been involved in government for all these 29 years and has defended the interests of Bulgarian citizens, and has talked about stability. We will also show this with the adoption of the 2019 budget, because we will increase expenditure by 5.5 billion. BGN to be able to give more money for education because Bulgarian teachers need more decent pay and we make this policy because it is listed exactly in our management program. For 2019, the increase in education will be 20%, in the field of other budget sectors will be 10%. Dear colleagues, this is what we are doing and we are doing it not to increase the country's deficit, but to maintain the 0,5% deficit, which gives stability, and to have a reserve in the treasury so that we can prepare ourselves for difficult times, if there is a global and European crisis. Colleagues, when we have important political decisions to be taken in the Bulgarian Parliament and when we have had the opportunity to have a caretaker government, which is in President Radev's sole management, we have seen what he can do to go to a spiral of instability, a spiral of single political decisions and the determination of certain competitions with certain performers, eliminating all others. What did the Bulgarian Parliament do? What did all of us who participated in this debate on investment expenditure and the way in which all these procedures should be done? We did it in a manner that is appropriate for every democratic state, every rule of law and every Council of Ministers, which does not make a single decision, but takes a decision based on the parameters set by the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB, raging and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is what we aim for because parliamentaryism is strong and can be much stronger when there is a real debate. And the fact that you are absent from this debate is your problem. I see that you have even been worried today that you should work a little bit more because we had a half hour's rest that was requested by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we took into account all these arguments after you said at the Conference of Presidents that you would participate in the debate, of course it is good for us to hear your arguments, and you have no meaningful arguments, because the figures I have listed show the real results of the policies that make a government and a parliamentary majority. Of course, everyone has the right to an opinion and must defend it here, but when you decide not to participate in the parliamentary debate and to be absent from the meetings, it does not in any way give you the right to be mentors and to be a moral judge. Dear colleagues on the left, you have shown yourself and proved that one you are talking during a campaign, another you are doing during a management mandate, and every single term you have completed, especially in 2014 you have led to the bankruptcy of KTB, you have led to an increase in the deficit. And now I understand why you have this policy and shaping these points of support so that you can protect those who probably also performed some immoral procedures and have wronged many of the Bulgarian citizens using their money, draining them through offshore campaigns and doing, of course, programs that may be in one form or another. [[Applause from GERB]] were to show the new face or the new vision of Bulgaria. We want this debate to be held here. And because today was the subject of the Prime Minister, I can tell you this: with the Prime Minister of Bulgaria we had an extremely successful Presidency thanks to the support they received from the parliament and the activity that all the ministers under the Bulgarian Presidency performed. This hurt you very much because you did not have the strength and dignity to acknowledge the undisputed successes we achieved with the Bulgarian Presidency, and that the Western Balkans are already part of this connectivity that we should have and the security that we can guarantee. Dear colleagues on the left, when you come out to speak, when you come out to speak, take a look at your actions during your management mandates first, and whether any of you who is speaking have not participated in something you may be giving today that is reproachable, and before you have done it with an extremely large heart and with great dedication. Dear colleagues, I will just tell you the following: from the parliamentary group of GERB, as far as I know, and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u176	And I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u177	...no man has participated in any privatization deals, no man has taken advantage of or has no oligarchic circle. Say one person, as Vecdi Rashidov called, one person we have created as oligarch, or these are historical facts that you occasionally recall about oligarchy and what you have created in the years since the beginning of the transition. I want to support what is being proposed by the Prime Minister because we know that it is a matter of honor and a question which we should all take as a decision today, because what Deputy Prime Minister Krasi Karakachanov has done, he is deputy prime minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and nowhere in the Constitution is written for quotas to be at coalition level. That's why Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov was here today. But I understand why you started attacking him so hard and skillfully. Because we're about to be finalized. [[(Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, Volya, ……]] It's coming! In today's speech of a MP from the left, the first sentence was reproached by Krasimir Karakachanov [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] and bringing guilt, and creating another false news that you want to run. However, let us recall that Krasimir Karakachanov and the Ministry of Defence receive the full support of the Bulgarian Parliament to complete the procedure for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, as much as you do not like it, for this objectivity and this transparency that we have in these procedures. We know where you want to take us. [[Applause from GERB.]] We know what your path is, but this time, which you are heading towards, we have long made our decision, and the politicians who have been ahead of us have made the right decision: Europe, the European Union and NATO. If you want some other orbit, if you want some other alliance, do it because that's where you belong and that's your strongest side! Be objective, however, when you speak, because you violate any ethical norms and destroy the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament! We are pleased that today the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, who we will watch and be able to make the relevant votes, you are present in the Chamber because this is a little of the time you are present in the Chamber. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you for today's legislative day, but just to remind you that today we have not voted on a single bill, and perhaps after Valeri Simeonov's vote is over, you will once again leave the Chamber and let Parliament work as it has worked all this time! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Noise, lines and calls: More! More! More! "BSP for Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Guys, it's unnecessary! - What's the line? The line, Mr. Rashidov. [[noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] Mrs. Nino, Mr. Veselinov. [[The guests from the balcony are leaving.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! [[Replices from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" You expelled the people, Tsvetanov! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u180	It's over and they're leaving!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u181	I replicate the statement of Tsvetan Tsvetanov... [[Noise and lines.]] A little peace and quiet, to replicate the party leader GERB! Mr. Tsvetanov, look! The KTB issue won't be over for a while. I'm on that subject. It is mainly related to the management of this part in the face of Oresharski and forever it will be an emblem! KTB is a very painful subject. You were right to say: before I became a minister and came into power, I declared my funds verified by the NRA. Unfortunately, it doesn't say on anyone's forehead that it's a pyramid. Later everyone started explaining the pyramid, but it was another of the 24 legal, legitimately registered banks in Bulgaria. I have given you a list several times who were the most frequent visitors of Mr. Tsvetan Vassilev. That's what you forgot to say! You also neglected to tell me where the sponsorship money went to the people who put their money in? I'm not a borrower, I'm a depositor of the bank! What is funded with them?? What televisions, what programs? I won't even forget how willing Mrs. Chakurdukova, who is a wonderful singer, cried and praised that this good person, who I have never seen, how good he was to sponsor with the money not just anyone but the depositors, to remind you of this, to sponsor concerts with the desire of Chakurdaka. You, how do you think I'd look at these things? Mention them! Tell me who they sponsored. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And why doesn't this part ever mention the name of this ungrateful Tsvetan Vassilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u182	Time's up, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u183	Why isn't it mentioned? Won't he come here to answer for his bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u185	Mr. Tsvetanov, in the name of the European development of Bulgaria, to which we all care, ask you: do you support the policy of the government of Boyko Borisov, through which false documents for European citizenship are issued [[shouts "Eee! " by GERB]] and a hit on European security? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What will you do as a member of the Europol Management Board to inform the European countries about the breach in European security, which allows the government of Boyko Borisov, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of one of the parties in the coalition, who is responsible for this sector, in the name of the future European development of Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u186	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Veselinov, third line, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u187	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you thanked BSP for being in the hall today. Indeed, this is a rare and happy exception for all of us! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, you should also ask them to thank you, because they continue to receive their parliamentary wages, even though they do not come to work! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We make the laws that they don't vote on. In fact, we're paying them off, the ones we're standing in the room. It is good to receive gratitude from the other side, and not just slander and lies, because it is clear that everything they say is a lie, including those two years of government that they report, because.. Even the deadline they tried to analyze was wrong for them to talk about the rest. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u189	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, who have made a reply! Ms. Ninova, the power of today's government is that it has the political will to fight corruption and any phenomenon that really undermines the authority of the institution. However, the power of every political party is to distinguish from the MPs to whom there are accusations, and that is to say, [[(Replications by National Representative Cornelia Ninova: For passports!) About passports!]] financial abuse, for relatives who are for racketeering, extortion and currently, as far as I know, are wanted with Europol and the Interpol newsletter. What is extremely important to know when there is political will, of course, then there are the most attacks! I will remind you of a case which was recently remembered in the media as well, of a well-known person, the so-called "Phozzi" customs official [[a line from the National Representative Georgi Gokov: "Tell about the passports! "]] who know exactly how your parliamentary group was defended by you, or by fellow MPs. Let me remind you that when controlled delivery was made and then the services worked actively, it was found that it entered Blagoevgrad's territory with the help of his assistance, this smuggled goods moved to Varna, there was a meeting with a young businessman Mandjukov, who was subsequently killed, but he himself had financed the youth BSP. As far as I know, this was a statement by Peter Dimitrov, who was the head of an organization. Ah, notice! Cigarettes were taken to a warehouse owned by a BSP functionary named Gutsanov, who had transferred it to another user. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] I am only saying what are the facts presented in the media, for the conviction and for Fozzie that she is currently serving her sentence, which was the result of the work that we did exactly with GERB's government. Regarding the statement of colleague Vejdi Rashidov. [[(Noise, lines and shouts by BSP for Bulgaria]] Colleague Rashidov, sadly we did not hear a response from BSP colleagues about how your money was used for both the presidential institution and the campaign because we know that one of these MPs was part of the team and President Radev's media PR as a candidate. [[Applause from GERB.]] Then, because of the conflicts that arose, the only salvation was to find a good, appropriate job and that was to become MPs. When I become a member of parliament, this MP, when there is already an investigation into the facts presented here, we do not say that the person concerned is guilty. Let him close the investigation, let him close the case. [[(Voices from "BSP for Bulgaria": ……]] , but we know what the facts at the moment are. Your defense thesis is always: to attack because we know that this is the best defense we can organize! As far as procedures are concerned. Ms. Ninova, just to remind you that the procedure for Bulgarian citizenship ends with a decree of the Presidential institution. Maybe you want Iliana Yotova's resignation? [[Applause from GERB.]] Don't, because she showed up as a potential candidate for the BSP presidency! Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u190	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Kutev's procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u191	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. This form of lies I will say softly, should not be allowed! Just a little bit. As the person who led President Radev's media campaign, I want to tell you that there was no such person in the media team!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u192	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u193	What you said was a lie. It's a big lie! I can't judge you for it, because pretty much what you're yelling at, I don't know why you're doing it, but that's what we have as Tsvetanov right now. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. It wasn't quite the way you run it! Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u195	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm upset with everything that's going on. Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand you didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u196	We're out of lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u197	No, no. It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u198	To me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u199	Yes, yes, to you. You, if [[GERB noise and lines]] You understood today what we were here for, you wouldn't let Mr. Emil Hristov wonder in what way to stop you! I understand that you understand, you know about KTB, you know about Fozzie, you know about Mozzie, but did you know that during the Sukhdol election? [[GERB noise and lines]] MMA fighters took part in the election? You don't know that! And now you're forcing us, again by your power method, to vote non-divided for the first point, for the resignation of Valeri Simeonov, and second point against the appointment of the new beauty in your government [[GERB noise and lines]] And you came out here, on this platform, pleased to show your power method and are satisfied with everything that is happening in the country?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] My respect to you! I'm sorry you really don't understand what this is about. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u200	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Procedure, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u201	Mr. President, please exercise the Rules of Procedure and ask Mr. Tsvetanov to reply to my reply as he has not. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It was a question: does the government support a policy in which passports and Bulgarian citizenship are sold and hit on European security? Will the European man Tsvetanov inform Europol about what is happening in Bulgaria? Will you bear responsibility to our European partners? Will you erase this stain from the face of Bulgaria and what responsibility will your small coalition partner bear, who has sold one of the most sacred things for each people? His nationality and citizenship against 5,000 euros? [[Noise, lines and banging on banks by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u202	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u203	Mr. Tsvetanov didn't answer me! I want an answer from the European Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u204	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u205	...for the impact you have made on European security and the stain you have placed on Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Personal explanation Mr. Tsvetanov. First of all, I say, Mrs. Ninova. There is no text in the Rules that gives me reason to oblige anyone to do anything. You have the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u207	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Ninova, honourable colleagues! Let us quote the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 98, p. 9 The only institution that can give Bulgarian citizenship is the presidential institution. That's the answer I can give you. [[Applause from GERB.]] And every institution that is relevant carries out the relevant checks, and today's government has the political will to fight any corruption schemes when they are exported and where there is sufficient evidence to initiate pre-trial proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today the government is deliberately shifting the topic of the debate because the issue is the responsibility of the government. I want to tell you that Valeri Simeonov does not speak on behalf of Valeri Simeonov, he speaks on behalf of the government. When he insulted the mothers of the children with disabilities, he said: "I have nothing to apologize for. I'm sorry, but the truth hurts. Under pressure and through fear, he apologized and resigned for the same reasons today. It's an instinct for self-preservation, it's not taking responsibility. Responsibility is assumed in another way, gentlemen ruling! The bad news today for you is that there is no one to lie to anymore, and the only way out before you is the resignation of the entire government. [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] because the government is responsible for these actions. I remind you of the incident in Svoge, when you made the Minister Deputy Minister, I remind you of your intentions to deprive the cancer patients of the medicines you intended to give up, only under pressure on the street. So you cannot continue, and the only solution before you is to restore power to the people. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Loud noise. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. The line is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Bojankov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Just to remind you that in my speech, I said that the Prime Minister apologized in person. Valeri Simeonov apologized and there is no MP who would repeat such words because we know that this was a mistake. [[Loud noise.]] We know this was a mistake. Mr. Bojankov, what you're saying is not true. The Prime Minister personally took the moral responsibility, apologizing two hours after that line was said. I would like to ask you and reply here to the duplicate: would you say how much money is provided for people with disabilities and what are the bills that will adopt this National Assembly and the working groups that were working on the bills? What matters is what the real results are, not what you like or don't. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. I have written three lines: the second one is the MP Alexander Nenkov, the third one is the MP Alexander Ivanov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I know there are others. That was the order. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Speeches are like that. Mr. Popov, there's no order for the lines. [[Replication by MP Philip Popov. Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct, but those were the stated lines. You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Of course, every MP and every self-respecting politician should be responsible for the words he speaks. Colleague Bojankov, as several times called for your parliamentary group to point out an oligarch who was created by the management of GERB, and you did not do so, now I ask you to do so, because you are talking about responsibility, but in my opinion this word is quite foreign to you, would you tell me, now that you have come out as a duplicate, a colleague of yours, at your memory, who has taken responsibility for some statement of his, some word of his, any act of his? [[Applause from GERB.]] Give me one, and I'll go public, and I'll apologize. I can point out to you many of my fellow Members, who, where with guilt, where sometimes and not with such guilt, where for moral reasons, have submitted their resignations and have taken their moral act. I want you to come out and honestly tell me a name. One! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u214	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I'm taking this line because I couldn't resist and will continue the reflection of my colleague Nenkov. I will be more retrospective and ask you: remind me when did your political leader come out once and take responsibility for speaking to MPs from your parliamentary group? Let us remind once again that there is a colleague from BSP who called 80% of Bulgarian citizens retards. There is one who told the Sofians and distributed on social networks that the water in Sofia, which the mothers and children drink, is poisonous. Where did your political leader or colleague go out to apologize?! Most of all, you owe the explanation, which is the biggest crime against democracy and the Constitution, that you have a colleague who is charged with replacing citizens' votes, that is, buying votes. Where did you go and where did you apologize to the Bulgarians, colleagues, for having an elected colleague among you with such voices?! I'm waiting to hear that explanation on the back. [[(Noise. Replies from GERB:]] I won't comment on the killers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u216	Dear Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear replicators, when people are on the road, when they say, "Resign!" when they call you, "Mafia!" [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Announcements by GERB:]] What do you say to them? [[Loud noise.]] Let's talk about Khan Krum. What happened in the big winter of '63?! [[Loud noise.]] Is this how you meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u218	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u219	Is this how you take responsibility?! It's a permanent trend. Not only did you not stop after the apology...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u220	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u221	After your apology, your deputies continued to insult the mothers of children with disabilities. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u222	Mr. Bojankov, thank you. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I ask you to ask the National Representative Alexander Ivanov to come and apologize from this tribune of colleague Tasco Ermenkov because, thanks to their information with Mr. Bikov, yesterday the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office refused to initiate proceedings against Tasko Ermenkov. If they're making him apologize now, let them come here and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u224	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u225	...apologize to a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u226	Mr. Svilensky, there's no report. The D.A.'s office has been approached.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u227	Because of this tribune, there can be no charges against fellow MPs from any party. I will not refer to the MPs from GERB with their immunity removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u228	It was the way it was supposed to be. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The name was mentioned... [[Loud noise.]] One at a time, please. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor for a personal explanation because my colleague Svilensky is quoting material that is next to the prosecution, which has been served to me. Mr. Svilensky, I am the only one who on yesterday I have the right to receive this decree of the first Prosecutor's Office of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. This is the first prosecutor's office, Mr. Svilensky. Three, out of the seven pages, explains what tension and fear caused Mr. Ermenkov's false and false statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But it wasn't filed through the Civil Defense Alert System. Yeah, we didn't say it was through the Civil Defense alert system. I stress that this decree of the first prosecutor, Mr. Svilensky, is subject to appeal under art. 213 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before the Sofia Appeals Prosecutor's Office. So don't ask the wrong people for an apology. If you're going to ask for an apology, if this proceedings are completed, let's finally see how it ends, you will also have my opinion as the addressee of this decree. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Procedure Mr. Nenkov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Personal explanation, Mr. Ivanov? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Yes, but after Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Svilensky, after Mr. Ivanov and after Mr. Nenkov, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u231	Mr. Chairman! I am going out to the National Assembly stand, first, to declare that I have been wrongly summoned, because I am not an importer and no such request written by me has entered into the District and Sofia Prosecutor's Office. But let us say otherwise, it seems that the lie is spreading quite seriously as an infection in the BSP group because it is coming out and lying to fellow Members of the National Assembly here and referring things to me that I feel personally affected by, and that is why I want this personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u232	Use other epithets.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u233	Mr. Svilensky, please check your facts next time you accuse MPs. I expect now a counter-apology from you on this stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, since there is no way I can make a reply to the previous BSP colleague, I would like to remind him that there is a big difference between criminal liability and moral responsibility! Today we are voting on the resignation of a deputy prime minister for allowing himself to miss a line that really literally insulted a small part of the Bulgarian society. He bears no criminal responsibility for his words, but bears moral responsibility. The fact that a colleague who threatened Sophiaans and provided information about whether the court would rule that he committed some kind of criminal offence and is subject to sanctions does not exonerate him for providing such information and frightening people. Please, Mr. Chairman, explain to Mr. Svilensky that there is a huge difference between penal and moral responsibility. Isn't that what you're talking about today?! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u237	Mr. Chairman, at last really one procedure in the manner of conduct. Tell me, in the last three speeches in the form of lines, does it have anything to do with the subject on which we have gathered? And you're in charge of this meeting! [[Loud noise.]] We got to the water, we got to Tasco Ermenkov... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Danail Kirilov, I asked you for the tenth time: do not give him the floor on procedural matters! Why do you give him the floor for a personal explanation when his name is not mentioned, explain it to me?! Without telling him his name, he walks out of here and explains himself. Mr. Kirilov, you shouldn't always, when a member of parliament comes out, you should want a procedure after him. You don't know the rules! Stay and learn the rules and then take attitude! Mr. Ivanov, if I offended you for saying that you were an importer, I apologize to you, but you should apologize for accusing Mr. Ermenkov of some crimes, and there are none.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u238	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Tsonev, you made a statement. You have the floor. I hope we can get this debate back to where it needs to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u239	I think there are a few other people who haven't taken the procedure. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The debate on the resignation of the deputy prime minister, who blew up the society, not today, not yesterday, not a month ago, but with his appearance on the political stage, we at the DPS thought he would have another character. Since this resignation is not a victory of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and neither of the BSP nor of any political party, although the DPS wants this resignation from the first day, it is a victory of the depraved dignity of the most worthy members of our society, the mothers who care with so much love and so much labor for their sick children. We at the DPS had decided not to take part in this debate, but only to give what was due to those mothers who were able to impose their opinions because it was about their dignity and the dignity of the nation. The debate today has shown us otherwise, so we have decided to participate. That is why I am now taking the floor at the end because this debate shows that the crisis is not only not over, not only is the crisis not in this problem, but that the government has no vision at all about what is happening. Dear colleagues of GERB, today's debate and the speech of the chair of the parliamentary group shows: You do not understand that you can no longer manage in this format with this coalition partner. Yesterday, that's what it was. He also showed something, colleagues from GERB: You do not understand that your reading of the successes is not the reading of the opposition, but the worst is that it is not the reading of the society. Whatever successes you see in this government, it is more important not what you see, and I say this as someone with experience who has made the same mistakes to think that by ruling, successes are what he sees them not, successes or failures are what society sees. And he doesn't see them the way you see them! I recall these things because they are the starting point for what will happen, and what will happen will not be what you want. No one will give credit to trust and recharge this coalition. You formed it in the name of the stability of the country. Is there one who can raise his hand and confirm that the country is stable at the moment in this coalition? Is there one of the government? [[GERB's line.]] You're sure about that? I hope the voters don't see you in Haskovo. [[Laughter and applause.]] Because not me, but they're blocking the border near Haskovo. [[GERB lines.]] Honorable colleagues, I speak well. Mr. Nenkov, that's what I said when they besieged parliament. Did you see the goons they're besieging? Yeah, yeah, yeah. With your stones on your head! Read! Read history, watch it, analyze it, what happens is not isolated, it's not the first time it's happened. In the last 10 years, there has not been a full term and each term ends with protests, regardless of who is ruling. So don't you have any light that we all need to change here and that this reading that you have done today is neither for the benefit of GERB, either on the right side or on the left side or on the middle part of the hall, but that it should be shown to the Bulgarian citizens that we read what they want? And they don't want that! What stability is it from morning to evening to the management to deal with someone else yesterday to lock up in the prime minister's office, conditionally lock up to make them understand each other, not to argue, not to have any cramps. What are the fights about for a program? No, they're not for a program, are they? [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" For bone! "]] All right! From today's debate, we've learned that there's some kind of reboot. There is no restart, I would like to tell you on behalf of the entire parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There's no reset, and things are not going to happen the way we want them to, or you want them to. Things will happen in the same way that has happened in the last 10 years if certain things do not change cardinally if the country is not oriented, if there is no minimum agreement between the political forces where the country is going if negative phenomena are not eradicated. Here we are talking about one line, here we are talking about an apology, Mr. Tsvetanov, and who will apologize for the thousands of other things that were said in a very bad language, about which the Council of Europe referred to some of these parties as fascist organizations? Not us. We have repeatedly cited this opinion of the Council of Europe. Who imposed this language, why, who needs this? Yes, but when you legitimize your shoulders, Mr. Tsvetanov. When you legitimize this language with viper posts and with participation in power, that's how it is. What changed today with the resignation by voting on it? The same person will speak out of this tribune the same things he has spoken out of this tribune, what has changed? Nothing has changed and nothing will change, alas! It requires a change, but a change to be meaningful, to be focused, to be one to which the Bulgarian citizens will still give some reboot to the political system, because all needs this restart. I can't understand it at all. I'm ending up with how experienced politicians are scared of elections? Elections are the most democratic instrument of democracy, elections are that tool that restarts, recharges the system, and you have done it several times and you have reached the minimum of confidence, you go to elections and you are elected, you win. You're getting a new trust. It's a new reset. And what happens? What happens when we go to early elections? Where has the country been in chaos, who has lost time for a month, or two months, who is talking about lost political time? Isn't this political time lost where there are no reforms, which we are now boasting here that we are pouring another 5 billion into systems that have not been reformed? How many specialists told you and how many opposition politicians, and not the opposition, that pouring in, that spending in this budget is not praise, but criticism. They're critical because they don't go where they should go because they don't increase the efficiency of public spending. At all, this debate must be held not on the ground of resignations, not in this tone, with which there is no debate on the substance in the Chamber, but there are procedural catch-ups that we are going back to the past so that we do not look at the present and that we do not point to the future because we cannot point to it, and the debate must be conducted with a calm tone. Can it go in such a political format? Does he have the right trust in society? So what if we have 123, 125 or 130? So what? Our conclusion is this: from today's debate we understand that the government does not understand the essence of the problem, alas! There is much talk about the last week what DPS's behaviour will be like and how the DPS would react and resign. I believe that these issues are absolutely unnecessary in view of today's debate. The DPS has had a request from day one and it's nationalists not to be in power! The most natural thing you can expect from us is the same in larger doses. We will continue to fight this model and format of governance with all democratic, political and parliamentary means, of course, being as we have so far been.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u240	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u241	You are much more generous to those who speak than GERB, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u242	Yes, you do. I've given you enough opportunity, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You are talking about morality here, you are talking about parliamentaryism, you are talking about breaking parliamentaryism and other epithets you are using on our behalf, you are talking, of course, about oligarchy, dear Mr Rashidov. Let me ask you: where was your morals, how did you raise parliamentaryism when you created, imported, and voted for a special person, for a oligarch, by which law you simplified 60 million. lv.? Where were you then, where was your morality, where was your government approach and parliamentaryism? Did you forgive sixty million? You've forgiven me! Did you make it and bring it in? Yeah, that's because you're going back to history. I will remind you that empirically in science is proven some theory with experience. Three times you are trying to manage Bulgaria and three times unsuccessfully. You, ladies and gentlemen, have been scientifically proven by the empirical experience that you are unfit to rule Bulgaria. The masks are down, the curtains are down, bow down and leave the station! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u244	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Do you have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u245	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u246	A line to Mr. Popov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u247	Didn't you say a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u248	Mr. Chairman! Colleague, I don't know what 60 million you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u249	Line. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u250	Mr. Chairman, let me make an explanation. I don't know what 60 million I've forgiven someone, but I'd rather ask, because we haven't done anything, but let's turn back from 1990 until now, get whoever you want at random the Minister of Culture, wish to see something that stands out and is visible. Why don't you wish for it? Because he's gone. Now you're blaming me for some $60 million. I don't know them. You probably know better how to transfer money, who forgives it and who they give it to. I'd give an example, but it's not good to do it today. So you better tell me what you've done and show me at least one thing you've done. At least I will stay in time with a nice Bulgarian museum at European level, a wonderful Largo, many more renovated theatres and archaeologists. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u251	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Popov, would you like to use the back? If you're having second thoughts, maybe you should...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u252	Thank you. I'm really having second thoughts: that Mr. Rashidov doesn't know what he voted for is his problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u253	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, there was absolutely no debate today on the topic: the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, and to my greatest amazement there was not a single question to Mrs Nikolova, who was offered to take his post. Not one question! This from now on shows only one thing: the purpose of this whole theatre that you have done by the BSP was not to discuss who is the new person who is coming, because if I were you, I would ask three, four, five specific questions on the policies on which Ms. Nikolova as Deputy Prime Minister, if this proposal is accepted from the House, will work. On the other hand, you have made an attempt to turn this whole debate into a vote of no confidence to the government. I will not repeat the facts and data that Mr. Tsvetanov the Chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB delivered to you. They don't like you, but they're a fact. The fact is that the incomes of Bulgarian citizens are rising. They are raised according to the budget's capabilities. 10% of civil servants with the new budget; since last year the salaries of the military, the teachers, the police; funds for modernization of the Bulgarian army, funds for new vehicles of the Bulgarian police. When you talked about crime, yes, it is a fact, you neglected to mention the fact that those over 1,000 new police officers who were appointed this year, with their work and especially with the mobile sections that were created as a practice, led to results in the fight against domestic crime. Yes, not the results we all expect, because there is no way for one or half year to solve all problems, but the results are prominent. You can't deny that this government, as much as you don't like it, has done everything in its power to raise income. You're telling me, your leader of the opposition, where are the 300th leva? I always remind you of one fact: when, in the 2017 budget, we, the Patriot front, then offered 300 BGN. to vote in the budget, you, ladies and gentlemen, from the so-called House of Records, have fled the House and thanks to you, because you were not in the Chamber, this proposal did not pass with six votes! Now you're telling me: where are the 300 leva? Mr. Tsvetanov answered you were raised, first, the minimum salary of 161 BGN. At 180 leva. And at the end of the year, it was picked up... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u255	The pensions, the pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u256	The pension, I apologize, was raised to 200, now it's up approximately 6%. By the end of the term of office, as is our commitment, we will make sure that this minimum pension is 300 BGN. You didn't. Why didn't you do it when you were in power? You're talking about the street. I'm not going to argue how many the protesters were..... whether they were five thousand, two thousand, 12 thousand. I won't say it, although as a power deputy prime minister, I know who's behind them, who's financing some of the campaign and hooded guys who are chanting football slogans. I won't say or actually say that it was you from the BSP who gave out last Sunday in Stara Zagora from a trunk of leaflets to the protesters. [[Noise and lines.]] But the fact is that there is discontent in society. The fact is that there is discontent in society! The discontent of a part of society is perhaps because of the pace at which things change. Dear colleagues, everyone should be honest with their constituents, because each of us here is chosen by the people and say: you cannot ask for German wages, but work as in Anatolia in the last century. It can't happen in 400,000 people who don't want to work in ghettos, neighborhoods who were taught not by this government or the previous government to receive social benefits, to invent fake diseases and to refuse work. There is a hunger for labour and there is no unemployment in Bulgaria. I apologize, but I'll tell you one more thing: [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] ... That is what we are discussing, thank you Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Valeri Simeonov resigned himself. No one locked him in any office, no one forced him to. Mr. Simeonov felt that in this situation it is better not to cause further public discontent, to resign. That's what we're discussing today! And it should, again, say, discuss some questions to the candidate for his post, but you didn't. This shows that your goal is not to do something constructive, but you are pursuing another goal, and especially your leader. It is known that even right here at the banks, there is now a small group that wants to replace your leader.. you are trying to escalate the tensions, to solve your internal party problems, shaking the state. It's the truth! It's the truth! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] If I were you, I would be ashamed to talk about protests, because if there were protests in the new history of Bulgaria, the most, the most massive and the most vicious were the people when you ruled the country. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] I remember Jean Videnov's time when parliament was besieged, but not by 300 people, but he was probably besieged by 30,000 people and at least 30 wanted to enter parliament, you were huddled in the cafeteria and singing guerrilla songs. [[Applause and laughter by GERB and the United Patriarchs.]] I remember that! I remember that during the Oresharski government literally on the 10th or 12th day the people came out mass, wanted to remove you and remove you at the end. If you're talking about protests, you don't talk about rope in the hanged man's house. Don't you! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB and "United Patriarchs.")]] You're talking about being responsible. When in your history have you ever been nationally responsible? I'm gonna move on to another topic in a little while. Even if you don't know the story, I don't remember who Robespierre was, and Marat is the incorruptible one! At least you read history by studying the revolution. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u257	We've read the story!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u258	Robespierre is known for the guillotine and the principle that you use:... The beneficiary is not with me is against me.................................................. is against me.............................. That's his principle. And you didn't say anything about the man who came back with the wagon from Switzerland and slaughtered the Russian people, or his successor, Stalin. They're great revolutionaries too. He was right when he mentioned to you that the revolution actually only leads to the same things as you still swear in Kim Il-seng.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u259	That Kim Il Sen is a revolutionary don't embarrass yourself. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u260	Mr. Jablyanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u261	Our organization, unlike you, has made a revolution and hasn't been hiding on dairy farms. But that's another topic! [[Laughter, excitement, applause by GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] She didn't rob dairy! Because I used the word "receipt," your leader tried three times to make a suggestion using a lie. You're supposed to be Marxist Lenins, and you're using the principle of Goebbels: A lie said a thousand times, I hope it becomes true. Goebbels, if you don't know who he is, come in, you have modern phones. Three times she tried here to instill the lie she did not mention my name because I would sue her if she had mentioned that I was selling Bulgarian citizenship. Note that a year ago there is an opinion of the SANS and only two weeks ago there is an opinion expressed by the prosecution that neither I nor the formation that I represent has dealt with this. What's that? However, I will tell you something else: where has the problem started again with Oresharski and with your management. I'll tell you why. Because the late Minister of Bulgarians abroad Bozhidar Dimitrov had succeeded as Minister of Bulgarians abroad to do the procedure for the Bulgarians about one year But for your party the Bulgarians have no meaning, and for you the sickle, the hammer and the red flag have always been more important! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] We're talking about the Bulgarians! Which Bulgarians are we talking about? For those Bulgarians you betrayed in 1946 and made them write Macedonians, and beat them, evicted and shot them! These Bulgarians are the ones we're talking about! [[(Replyes: "Bravo!" and violent applauses by GERB and "United Patriarchs." Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria]] I have had to explain to your Prime Minister Oresharski soon will come, because I repeat his name that what is happening is an outrage that today your claims rest on a woman who cut off, destroyed 14 thousand copies of Bulgarians from Macedonia, fourteen thousand fates, and lost their documents, which is a violation of the Personal Data Act, and at the same time 1200 ethnic Turks from the expatriates, I am not talking about the Revival process, which does not have the right to Bulgarian citizenship, received it! I explained this at the time and always said one thing: if we want there to be no corruption in this system, because it is not the Bulgarian Agency for Bulgarians abroad that issues it the Ministry of Justice, and the President as an institution beats the press, if we want there to be no questionable elements, we should simplify the procedure for ethnic Bulgarians and not hang them for years! Do you know what a genius said to me that you had appointed, a genius that you had made Deputy Minister of Justice when I asked Oresharski to arrange a meeting with the then Minister of Justice and to explain to her that this was not working? This genius, Deputy Minister with such a sporty action name, I will not call him the nickname, said to me: "Well, Mr. Karakachanov, but, what Bulgarians are they? Look at him, Ivan Stoyanovski is not even of........... and I had to remind the man what his name is........... is........................................................................................................................................... That's the kind of shit you put in there! [[(Shouting: "Bravo! ") Replies and applauses by GERB and "United Patriarchs.")]] On that subject. In my life, I have said this to the media, I will say it from the National Assembly's stand: in my life I may have compromised politics, but in terms of my ideology and my faith in the fact that there is a Bulgarian population living in Macedonia, I have never changed my mind and I have not been a traitor like your predecessors, first. Secondly, I confirm what I said to the media: take out one proof that I and IMRO have received one penny, not five thousand euros, and some nonsense that your leader here speaks, and I will fulfill my promise, which I said publicly in the square. So please very much: do not make the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian nation a hostage of your domestic party struggles. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Do not let your leader's survival be at the expense of the survival of stability in the country. What I had to tell you, I told you, I can do other things. Finally, honourable Members, I suggest that you accept and support the proposal tabled on behalf of the Prime Minister, which I have had the honour to present for the release of Mr. Valeri Simeonov and for the election of a new Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, as Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov said, there were no questions asked, but if you have a wish... I can't see. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Guys, what's going on? We're in a voting procedure. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Ivanov, right after the vote. Right after the vote, Mr. Ivanov! The decision was presented to the MPs by Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. We are voting on the text presented by Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. Vote 180 MPs: 116, against 63, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. There's a negative vote. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing the re-voting procedure and first of all to invite the part of the parliamentary group of the "United Patriarchs" containing MPs from the "Attack" to invite also the chairman of the parliamentary group of the "United Patriarchs" "Volen Siderov," and to find out why they do not vote on this change in government. [[Noise and lines by GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u264	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You don't have to explain and give me instructions, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u265	On the contrary, invite them to vote. Why aren't the Atakas in the room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u266	We are voting on the Decision on Personal Changes. They voted 178 MPs: 116 against 62 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ademov, you wanted a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I and my colleagues from our parliamentary group voted against the Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is the title of the Decision Project. And another thing: the votes for the Council of Ministers' staff and structure, the votes on budget laws are those demarcation lines that separate the government from the opposition, and that is why we voted against it from our parliamentary group. Honourable Members, you have forcefully imposed the vote in one item. Our position on the movement for rights and freedoms is clear. Since the establishment of this ruling majority, we are for the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov and we are opposed to the election, the appointment of Ms. Mariana Nikolova as Deputy Prime Minister. You were afraid that if there was a separate vote, the procedure for choosing the new Deputy Prime Minister would not pass because of your internal party problems. That is why our parliamentary group voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u268	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. On the negative vote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, we voted against it because you are offering us more of the same, and in large doses I will allow myself to quote Mr. Tsonev. Secondly, we voted against it, because you rejected the proposal for a separate vote, and on it, of course, we would have voted against it, not only Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, but also his personality, in terms of his moral qualities, which he demonstrated with his speech. This should be made clear to you. I am very interested, since here you are telling us that the coalition is stable and you are calling us to vote, where is the chairman of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs, who is part of this coalition? Where is he and why didn't he vote? Explain this to the people! I sincerely hope this President, because I would ask, as in an advertisement was: "Where is Volen Abi?."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u270	Mr. Chenchev, explain your negative vote, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u271	I hope, Mr. Chairman, he's not locked up in someone's office while he was voting here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats! We're going to take an oath from Mrs. Nikolova. Mrs. Nikolova, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u273	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues, let's wish Mrs. Nikolova good luck! [[Noise and lines.]] I am announcing a 20-minute recess in the work of the National Assembly. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u274	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL AIRCRAFT LAW. Mr. Letifov, can you give us the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act No 802-01-42 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 14 November 2018, a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act was discussed, No 802-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Stanimir Leshev, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Air Administration, who presented the Draft. Mr. Leshev said that the proposed amendments aim to establish measures for the implementation of European aviation regulations, as well as to eliminate the findings of discrepancies by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency. As regards the entry into force of Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2018 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and the establishment of an Aviation Safety Agency of the European Union and amending Regulations (EC) No 2111/2005, (EC) No The bill provides for the Director-General of the General Directorate for Air Navigation to issue a certificate of airworthiness of aircraft within the meaning of Commission Regulation (EU) No arena of 3 August 2012 laying down implementing rules for the airworthiness certification and environmental protection of aircraft and related products, parts and equipment, as well as for the certification of design and production organisations, on the basis of a certificate of airworthiness review issued by appropriately qualified staff of the General Directorate for Air Administration. Separate texts of the bill propose an amendment relating to the examination of applications received. If additional documents and/or evidence arise, the time limit for examining the application shall be suspended until the requested documents/proofs have been submitted. The amendment was made to address a non-compliance identified in an inspection by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency. New requirements relating to the declaration of intent to carry out non-commercial flights, to the issue of authorisations for high-risk specialised commercial operations and to the operational requirements for the operation of specialised commercial and non-commercial operations shall also be introduced. It is also envisaged that aircraft operators performing specialised operations but operating non-type certified aircraft should be issued a national aviation operator certificate for specialised operations. Another group of amendments to the Civil Aviation Act relates to the clarification of texts concerning the need to reconcile terminology and functions according to the applicable concepts in other laws and documents under the International Convention on Civil Aviation. Part of the proposed texts in the Bill concern the clarification of existing aviation security regulations, including the introduction of new administrative criminal provisions for infringements carried out in this area. The National Civil Aviation Security Training Programme is also envisaged to be merged with the National Security Certification Programme for Security Officers working at checkpoints in a single document. The establishment of a National Civil Aviation Security Training and Certification Programme is proposed. Similar is the practice in a number of Member States of the European Union, where training and certification are a single process, for example in Romania, Poland, Greece, Germany, Scandinavian countries, France and others. § 7 of the Bill amends Art. 16th. The change stems from the fact that the area concerned is not applicable under the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 300/2008. This, in turn, requires a replacement of the term "Safety Zone" with the term "Safety Zones" at the airport. Also under the legislation in force, the coordination of access to these areas is carried out by the State Agency of National Security and the Directorate-General of Border Police. It is also proposed that access to the security areas of civil airports be agreed with the Directorate-General for Border Police on the criteria set out in the National Civil Aviation Security Programme. The additional provisions of the Bill provide a legal definition of an unmanned aircraft (drone), which complies with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/1139. An administrative criminal liability shall be established for infringements committed by persons who have allowed or carried out a flight with an unmanned aircraft (drone) in the country's airspace without the appropriate authorisation. Participants in the discussion on the Draft took part in the discussion on the Law: Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Valentin Milushev. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 13 votes, for abstention and 8 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 802-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u276	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. You can make your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u277	Mr. Chairman, allow me on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to make a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Stanimir Leshev, Director General of the General Directorate of Air Administration and Mr. Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of the National Representative Halil Letifov. Vote 80 MPs: 77 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate on the bill. You have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 802-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted "The Bill has been adopted in the first vote." We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXPORT PROTECTION. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. Who's gonna read the report? Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing the first procedure for admission in the hall of: Mr. Lachezar Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Four proposals, right? Four admissions? I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber, made by the MP Daniela Saveklieva. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u281	The Commission's Report on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act No 802-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018, adopted at the first vote on 24 October 2018. "Improvement and Supplement to the Export Insurance Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u282	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u283	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u284	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u285	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end of the application; (b) c. 5 other direct and indirect guarantees shall be added after the word. 2. In para. 2 the words the International Export Insurance Board shall be replaced by the oversight board of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u286	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u287	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u288	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u289	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 2 the words "more than 3 months" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3 words in the case of export credit insurance are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u290	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote, the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4, and the text of the importer for § 5, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u291	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u292	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the text of the importer for § 6; the text of the importer for § 7 and the text of the importer for § 8. All three texts shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 82, none, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u293	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) points 1 suppl. 3 are amended as follows: "1." draw up a three-year strategy for the activities of BASEZ-EAD, in accordance with national economic policy and propose it to the Minister of Economy; 2. offer to the Minister of Economy the amount of funds under art. 9, para. 1 to be included in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year; 3. adopt annually the classification of countries by risk level and determine the maximum amount of exposures per country; (c) point 4 is repealed; (d) points 6? 8 are amended as follows: It's six. Each year approves a methodology for dividing costs in relation to the activity under art. 3; 7. annually approves the investment programme of the BASEZ-EAD; 8. requires, on a quarterly basis, information on the insurance contracts concluded, territorial and sectoral analysis of the distribution of the insured exports and investments, the amount of the claims for insurance limits compared to the insurance capacity of the insurance company. (e) point 9 is repealed. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. 3 the words "International Council" shall be replaced by The Minister of Economy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u294	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for § 9 and the text of the importer for § 10, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u295	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Interdepartmental Council shall be replaced by those confirmed by the Supervisory Board. 2. A new para is being created. 4. (Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 3, para. 1 and 2 are paid by the BASES and EAD. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it in t. 4 the words "the International Council" shall be replaced by the "supervisory Council." 5. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 words.............................................................................. 14, para. 4 t. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 and 10 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u296	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version of the Commission for § 11; the text of the importer for § 12; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 13 by text in accordance with the proposal of the Commission and the version of § 13 by importer which becomes § 14. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u297	Dear Mr. President, I am proposing an extension of the time until the end of the bill, as only three more paragraphs remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u298	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u299	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-21.u300	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 15; the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 16; and the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 17. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted. Members of Parliament, the next regular plenary session shall be on 22 November 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
