ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Colleagues, please register. Cancel registration. There's no quorum. Next registration in 10 minutes. 9:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u2	Please, registration mode! We'll do a second try. Abort second registration. In 10 minutes, the last attempt to register. 9:51 p.m. Colleagues, third attempt at registration. Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Colleagues, I propose a Draft Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 31 October 2018: 1. Second vote on the Cyber Security Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. He was accepted in the first vote on 27 June 2018. [[The House is attended by MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms......................................................................................................................................................... Proclaims: "U-u-u-u!" by GERB and OP.]] 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The first vote was adopted on 10 October 2018. 3. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2018. 4. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works. Importers are Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krasteva on 6 February 2018. He was adopted on the first vote on 4 July 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 1 November 2018 6. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The first vote was adopted on 18 October 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 1 November 2018 7. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. Point 3 for Thursday, 1 November 2018 8. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov on 29 October 2018. Point 1 for Friday, 2 November 2018 9. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the Programme Project. They voted 153 MPs: 127, against 5, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u3	Thank you, Madam President. There's a problem with the system. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u4	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please, re-election mode. Vote 172 MPs: 134 against 8, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Commission on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of specialised intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on the Bulgarians in Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Countering Economy. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. Draft budget bill for state social security for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Messages: On 30 October 2018, the Programme format of the budget of the Ministry of Defence, the parameters of which correspond to the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 and the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2019. By letter of the President, the material is provided to all permanent committees and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 30 October 2018, the National Assembly received opinions from the Fiscal Council on Projects: Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, Act on the Budget of the State Social Security for 2019 and Strategy for Government Debt Management for the period 2019. By letter of the Chair, the materials are provided to all Standing Committees and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. Opinions are published on the website of the Board on the Internet. Message: In the performance art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria and the non-military residence in the inland waters, and a visit to the port of Burgas of ships belonging to the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Spain in the period from 9 November to 17 November 2018 including. The visit of the ships from the NATO Permanent Armistice Group in the city of Burgas is related to the implementation of the established timetable of the group and their participation in the Bulgarian-Romanian anti-mining exercise. The notification was received on 29 October 2018 with entry No 803-09-60, provided to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 September 2018. "24 October 2018, and Protocol No 43 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund of 29 October 2018, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information on the business structure in October 2018........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Moving on to the first item of today's agenda. SECOND VOICE OF THE KIBERSIGUURITY LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2018. The first vote was adopted on 20 July 2018. Mr. Tsvetanov, please give us the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber: on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister of Interior; Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Atanas Temelkov Chairman of the State Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u6	Please vote on the procedure. Vote 152 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u7	On 30 May 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Cyber Security Bill No 802-01-18, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 27 June 2018. "Cyber Security Act." "Cyber Security Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapters 1 and 2 of Title III of Title III of Title III of Title III of Title III of Title The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u8	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the Law and Chapter One, which the Commission supports. They voted 124 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u9	It's an object. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: "Instruction" Art. 1. (1) This law shall regulate the activities under: 1. the organisation, management and control of cyber security, including cyber defence activities and projects and countering cybercrime; 2. taking the necessary measures to achieve a high common level of network and information security. (2) This law also lays down the powers and functions of the competent authorities in the field of cybersecurity. The Commission proposes to create new art. 2 and 3: Cybersecurity. Network and Information Security Art. 2. (1) Cybersecurity is a state of society and the state in which, through the application of a complex of measures and actions, cyberspace is protected from threats related to its independent networks and information infrastructure or which may disrupt their work. (2) Cybersecurity shall include network and information security, countering cybercrime and cyber defence. (3) Network and information security shall be the ability of networks and information systems to oppose a certain level of impacts affecting the negative presence, authenticity, integrity or confidentiality of stored, transferred or processed data or related services offered by those networks and information systems or accessible through them. Network and information security measures Art. 3. (1) Network and information security measures shall be organisational, technological and technical and shall be applied in accordance with the specifics of the entities under art. 4, para. 1 and proportionate to the threats in order to minimise the risk of their implementation. (2) The minimum scope of network and information security measures, as well as other recommended measures, shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the President of the State Agency. Measures may not require the use of a particular type of technology. (3) The ordinance under para. 2 shall not apply to their offices and functions under art. 5, t. 2. (4) Subjects under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 maintain a security management system for information which includes the following minimum organisational measures: 1. allocation of network and information security responsibilities; 2. implementation of network and information security policy; 3. management of: (a) the risk; (b) information assets, including human resources; (c) incidents; (d) accesses (physical and logical); (e) the amendments; (f) continuity of activity and/or services (essential, digital); (g) interactions with third parties. It's all right. It's all The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2 which becomes art. 4. suppression Art. 4. (1) This law lays down the requirements for: 1. the administrative authorities; 2. operators of essential services and digital service providers for each sector, subsector and services referred to in Annexes 1 and 2; 3. persons exercising public functions which are not designated as operators of essential services where such persons provide administrative services electronically; 4. organisations providing public services which are not designated as operators of essential services or are not digital service providers within the meaning of that law where such organisations provide administrative services electronically. (2) The operator of essential services shall be a public or private entity of the categories listed in Annex No 1 which meets the following criteria: 1. to provide an essential service, and 2. the provision of this essential service shall depend on networks and information systems, and 3. incidents in network and information security have a significant damaging effect on the provision of this service. (3) The administrative bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 define operators of essential services according to the criteria under para. 2 and in accordance with a methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers and notified to the President of the State Agency. The methodology shall be adopted on a proposal from the President of the State Agency. (4) Where an operator provides a substantial service in two or more Member States of the European Union, the administrative authority under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall consult the countries concerned before deciding on the operator's designation. (5) The operators of essential services shall comply with the network and information security requirements laid down in this Law only in respect of the essential services they provide. (6) Where a legal act of the European Union or a law specific to a particular sector or service referred to in Annexes 1 and 2 provides for operators of essential services or digital service providers to ensure their network and information security or to notify incidents, those acts shall apply, provided that their requirements are at least equivalent as a result of the obligations laid down in that law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3 which becomes art. 5. "Exhibitions" Art. 5. This law shall not apply: 1. for communication and information systems for processing classified information within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information; 2. for the Networks and Information Systems of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence and the State Agency of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Military Information and the National Security Office, which are not related to the provision of administrative services by electronic means and exchange of electronic documents between the administrative authorities; the requirements, management and control of these networks and information systems shall be carried out under conditions and in order specified by the relevant Heads; 3. as regards undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Communications, with the exception of art. 14, para. Art. 5, art. 15, para. Art. 6 and art. 19th para. 3; 4. for certification-service-providers within the meaning of art. 3, p. 19 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows:) 5. for digital service providers which are micro and small enterprises within the meaning of art. 3, para. 2 and 3 of the Small and Medium Enterprises Act. "Register." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4 which becomes art. 6: "Register" Art. 6. (1) The Chair of the State Agency "Electronical Management" shall establish, keep and maintain a register of essential services within the meaning of this Law, which shall contain: 1. types of essential services; 2. a list of operators of essential services and their services; 3. sphere of activity; 4. number of users relying on the service provided by the operator; 5. geographical scope of the area that may be affected by an incident. (2) The list under para. 1, t. 2 shall be reviewed and updated every two years by the relevant administrative authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of which they shall notify the President of the State Agency. (3) The order of keeping, storing and accessing the register shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2. (4) The register under para. 1 is not public. Management and organization of the cyber security system. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5 which becomes art. 7. The cybersecurity system Art. 7. (1) The cybersecurity system is part of the national security protection system. (2) The management and organisation of the cyber security system shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers. In order to support the implementation of these activities, the Council of Ministers shall establish a Cyber Security Council. (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt by decision the National Strategy for Cybersecurity, and in the cases referred to in art. 8, para. 3 and National Strategy for Network and Information Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u10	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, importers! I am referring to the proposal for a second vote on the Cyber Security Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers with the following reasons. With colleagues Kolyo Milev, Tasco Ermenkov and Nikolay Tsonkov, we made proposals which, in general and in total, four proposals, the Commission does not support. That is why I am motivated for such a statement. I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u12	Mr. Velkov, just a moment. Here in these proposals, which Mr. Tsvetanov read, there were no suggestions from you. Perhaps somewhere behind are your suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u13	How did you get back? They're not back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u14	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u15	If you want me to step back and come back, I'll step forward? If you want? First of all, I would like to say, Madam President, about the law itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u16	Because we're at the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u17	Let us be clear, honourable Members, that this is another document which has been created, I would not say created, but created, on the occasion of a requirement of a European structure and organisation to have such a law. We have a National Security Strategy, which has a cybersecurity section, we have a separate document of the Ministry of Defence for cybersecurity, we have mostly "Ciberating Bulgaria 2020." I would like to ask the importers: Do you give up this document which was developed and adopted in 2016 and foresees actions to maintain and establish cybersecurity by 2020, or does it continue to exist in parallel to what we are now going to accept? There is something that disturbs, Madam President and honourable importers, namely that in this "Cyberproof Bulgaria 2020" the role of the Head of State in the management and management of the cyber security system is defined precisely and clearly, and it is written there, this is not our quote that the President of the Republic receives comprehensive information about the state and development of the National Cyber Security and Sustainability System and in the declaration of war, military or other emergency, note another emergency situation, the President directs the activities of ensuring cyber resistance of state and military government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u18	This, Mr. Velkov, has not been read. You are speaking on something that has not yet been reported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u19	What do you suggest, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u20	You come out, and then you don't have to say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u21	Yes, thank you. I'll speak now and then I won't speak. Yes, let's let Mr. Tsvetanov calmly report his paperwork. Now, I ask the importers why did you give up this set-up that you created in 2016? The hypothetical answer could be because the president wasn't who he was. Well, well, we're making legislation because of the person who's in charge of a state institution or because of the law?! From now on we have made proposals, you do not accept them, but I want to tell you the following: You enter into a Coliseum with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 100, powers of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior, but not of the President of the State Agency of National Security. It's recorded in wartime who's supreme commander, who's in charge! I would also like to tell you something else, that now in the draft budget we will be looking at the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence, there is not a word, not a penny intended for cyber resistance and for the creation of cyber resistance structures, you are creating a Cyber Security Council, you are proposing that it be a helpful, stuffy body, and you are giving it huge powers, you want us to do a cybersecurity strategy! Don't we have a National Security Strategy that has a whole section of Cybersecurity? It gives the impression that the Law is being done to meet some requirement, but also to create a body that suits someone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u22	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u23	Thank you, too. I'm done talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u24	Ah, speak up, please. Any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I believe that Mr. Velkov's statement was not in line with all that has been read so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u26	That's right, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u27	The next paragraph referred precisely to Mr. Velkov's proposal, and I do not know whether we should debate the topic of the speech that Mr. Velkov made or move on to the next texts of the Report and then return to the substance to debate and discuss?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u28	If you want, continue the debate so that we can close it, and then proceed with the vote afterwards. He even read the whole proposal, so it's not necessary to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u29	I will read it as per the Report so that the proposal or statement made by Mr. Velkov is relevant to what is to be read now. Offer of the National Representative Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs: Article 3 is replaced by the following: 5a: Art. 5a. The President of the Republic shall receive comprehensive information on the state and development of the national cybersecurity and sustainability system. In the event of a declaration of war, military or other emergency, the President shall direct the activities of ensuring cyber resistance of state and military government. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new art. 8 and 9: "Strategies" Art. 8. (1) The National Cyber Security Strategy shall be a strategic framework of cybersecurity policy, which shall include: 1. objectives, principles and priorities; 2. areas of action and measures: (a) cybersecurity system; (b) network and information security; (c) countering cybercrime; (d) cyber defence; (e) cyber-intelligence; 3. interaction between state, business and society; 4. development and improvement of the regulatory framework; 5. raising awareness, knowledge and competence; stimulating research and innovation in cyber security; 6. international interaction; 7. cyberdiplomacy; 8. interaction at technical, operational and strategic (political) level. (2) The National Network and Information Security Strategy shall be a strategic framework of network and information security policy, which shall include: 1. objectives and priorities for network and information security; 2. a management framework for achieving the objectives and priorities under point 2. 1, including the functions and responsibilities of state authorities and other actors; 3. measures relating to preparedness, response and recovery in networks and information systems, including cooperation between the public and private sectors; 4. essential information on education and training programmes and awareness-raising programmes in relation to network and information security; 5. an indication of the plans for research and development on network and information security; 6. a risk assessment plan to identify risks; 7. a list of the different participants in the implementation of the strategy. (3) The National Strategy for Network and Information Security shall be drawn up when the National Strategy for Cybersecurity does not contain the information under para. 2. Cyber Security Council Art. 9. (1) The Cyber Security Council shall be an advisory and coordinating body of the Council of Ministers on cybersecurity matters. (2) The Chairman of the Cyber Security Council shall be the Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the Prime Minister. (3) Members of the Cyber Security Council shall be: 1. the Minister of Interior; 2. the Minister of Defence; 3. the Minister of Foreign Affairs; 4. the Minister of Finance; 5. the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 6. the Minister of Energy; 7. the Minister of Health; 8. the Minister of Environment and Water; 9. the Chief of Defense; 10. the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior; 11. the Chairman of the State Agency 12. the Chairman of the State Agency 13. the Director of the Military Information Service. 14. the head of the National Security Service; 15. the Chairman of the State Agency 16. the Secretary of the Cyber Security Council; 17. the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; 18. a representative of the President of the Republic, expressly appointed by him by decree. (4) The President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister may participate personally in the meetings of the Cyber Security Council. (5) In certain cases and on individual issues in the work of the Cyber Security Council at the invitation of its Chair, chairmen of permanent committees of the National Assembly, MPs and heads of departments and organizations may participate. The Cyber Security Council. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6 which becomes art. 10: "Cyber Security Council activity" Art. 10. The Cyber Security Council shall: 1. analyse the trends of cyber threats, risks, methods of countering and the development of the necessary capacity, priorities for the construction and development of human, technological, infrastructure, financial and organisational components, and, where necessary, propose solutions and actions in relation to them; 2. propose to the Council of Ministers the National Cyber Security Strategy and the roadmap to it, as well as prepare their periodic update; 3. provide information to the Security Council of the Council of Ministers on the state of cyberspace security for inclusion in the draft annual report on the state of national security under art. 9, p. 7 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System; 4. interact with the competent authorities in the field of cybersecurity, including with the national competent authorities under art. 16, with the National Single Contact Point, with regulatory authorities and with other institutions; 5. make proposals for harmonisation and coordination of sectoral policies to achieve a high overall level of cybersecurity of the economy and society; 6. propose to the Council of Ministers a National Cybercrises Management Plan; 7. interacts with the Security Council of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u30	Statements? I can't see. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u31	I am speaking on the proposal which I read just now related to the proposal of the MP Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs. Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity to read and art. 9 because according to Art. 9, para. 3 The President of the Republic shall have a representative of a permanent member of the Cyber Security Council of the Council of Ministers. According to para. 4 of the same art. The President may participate personally in Council meetings. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 describe all activities carried out by the Council, including e.g. 1: analyzes, i.e. gets all relevant information at national level, respectively all information is provided to the President through his representative. Second, in order to be able to produce information under art. 10, para. 1, t. 3, The Council must receive all information on the state and development of the national cyber security and sustainability system, respectively the President's representative. Third, the Council interacts with all competent authorities in the field of cybersecurity under art. 10, para. 1, t. 4. Regarding the second part of the proposal: in the event of a declaration of war, military or other emergency, the President directs the activities of ensuring cyber resistance of state and military government. The functions and powers of the President are described in Chapter 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in so far as it is constitutional and lawful by law to impose obligations. ) (a.k.a. 3 It is important to note that constitutional norms have direct effect and are proclaimed in art. 5, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The norms are applied directly by the legal entities. There is no need for their legal regulation by parliamentary laws and other sources of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u33	Thank you, Madam President. The line, Mr. Tsvetanov, thanks for mentioning me several times, is precisely in connection with the proposal, as under the Constitution, the President of the Republic is the supreme commander of the armed forces. You're quoting the state of war or any other state of emergency. The President of the Republic cannot be absent from the law, it can't be done. You've included him there at several points.... his representative may be present, however a decree has been issued about this thing. And the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the President may attend, if they wish, of course, a meeting of the Cyber Security Council. We are talking about something quite different, Mr. Tsvetanov..... about the worst state of a society............. the state of war! And, please, you've accepted that cyber defense will be dropped, which is why I thank you, respect the fact that cyber threats are manifesting themselves in cyberspace! They don't usually kill people, like terrorism or military action, but they do cause huge losses to entire systems. To tell you the truth, it's more of a hit on the software than on hardware and on people. So we should be precise and clear. Why, I'll ask you again, Mr. Tsvetanov, you're not answering? Why is the document you adopted two years ago the president's chapter, and now it's gone? Are you giving up that document? I'm answering you because it was another president. What difference does it make who's president when the President Institution should be present in the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Tsvetanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u35	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Velkov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I hope everyone has heard from the text I read in art. 9, and here I will give a very clear answer to the line that was made by Mr. Velkov: in art. 9, para. 2, p. 18 The President of the Republic's representative, expressly appointed by him by decree. But notice al. 4 where the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister may participate in the meeting of the Cyber Security Council in person. So here we can say that what has been presented as a motive is vitiated as an attitude to both the Prime Minister of the country and the President of the Parliament. And we, in this article and in this paragraph, are just adding and enabling the President personally, the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament to participate in this meeting! So, the president, when he decides, can participate or his representative can report to him all that is being discussed and what is being done. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u36	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Dear colleagues, a delegation of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament is visiting the National Assembly today. The guests are on the balcony in plenary. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause.]] Thanks, guys. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1; the establishment of new Articles 2 and 3; art. 2 which becomes art. Article 4; 3 which becomes art. Article 5; 4 which becomes art. Art. 6, Art. 6. 5 which becomes art. 7 on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: 80, against 29, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Slavcho Velkov. Voted 103 MPs: 34 against 53, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new art. Article 8 and 9 and the version of Art. 6 which becomes art. 10 on the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: for 76, against 23, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u37	There is a proposal from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs under the "Strategies." 7, para. 1: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1, in a sentence first after the word "cybersecurity" the quotes are placed and added "Cyberproof Bulgaria 2020." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes art. 7 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 11: National Cyber Security Coordinator Art. 11. (1) The Prime Minister shall designate a national cybersecurity coordinator, who shall also be the Secretary of the Cybersecurity Council. (2) The National Cybersecurity Coordinator shall: 1. direct the preparation and updating of the National Cyber Security Strategy and the roadmap to it; 2. participate in the construction and development of the National Coordination Organisational Network for Cyber Security and ensuring its reliability, security and sustainability; 3. participate in the establishment and development of the National Cyber Situation Centre, coordinate actions and complex reaction to cybercrisis threats and hybrid threats; 4. propose to the Cyber Security Council: (a) levels for assessing the threat of cyber attacks and cyber incidents and criteria for determining them; (b) degrees to determine the level of preparedness for countering cyber attacks and cyber incidents, depending on the level of threat; (c) the measures to be taken in the appropriate stages of preparedness; 5. where necessary, in a state of increased threat of cyber- or hybrid nature assists the formation of teams for analysis, response and recovery, with the participation of experts from different departments and organisations; 6. assist in the planning, preparation and implementation of cyber security exercises; 7. ensure the interaction and support the activities of the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u38	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Slavcho Velkov. They voted 87 MPs: for 7, against 62, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 7, which is generally supported, but is reflected in its systematic place in a new Article. Article 8 and the version of Art. 8 8 which becomes Art. 11 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u39	Vote 95 MPs: 73, against 20, abstention 2. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u40	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 12: "President of the State Agency "E-Management" Art. 12. The Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management": 1. conduct the state policy in the field of network and information security; 2. prepare and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers National Strategy for Network and Information Security in the cases under art. 8, para. 3; 3. issue methodological guidelines and coordinate the implementation of network and information security policies; 4. certify the compliance of information systems implemented by administrative authorities with network and information security requirements and supervises administrations to comply with these requirements; 5. exercise control to comply with network and information security requirements of the administrative authorities, except for the departments under art. 5, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. carry out checks through persons authorised by him of the information security of a certain information system or of the measures taken by the administrative authority and give prescriptions for their improvement; the scope of the checks shall not fall into the information systems of the departments under art. 5, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. develop a methodology and rules for carrying out an assessment of compliance with the network and information security measures defined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. coordinate, organise and conduct international and national trainings in the field of network and information security. There is a proposal under art. 10, para. 1 of the MP Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 13: Minister of Defense. Head of Defence Art. 13. (1) The Minister of Defence shall conduct a state policy to protect and actively counter cyber attacks and hybrid impacts on defence and armed forces management systems. The Minister of Defence organised the preparation for cyber defence of the country's management systems in a situation of war, martial law and state of emergency. (2) The Minister of Defence shall: 1. organise the development and development of cyber defence capabilities to protect defence and armed forces management systems, including the Cyber Defence Centre and their resource security; 2. organise coordination and interaction in relation to the implementation of collective defence commitments of shared cyberspace with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the European Union; 3. co-operation with the Minister of Interior and the Presidents of the State Agency (a) prepare additional requirements regarding the planning and implementation of the cyber defence and cyber resistance activities of the country in the event of a declaration of emergency, martial law or state of war and organise the implementation of the control of their implementation; (b) organise the construction, development and maintenance of potential for protection and active countermeasure, adequate to modern challenges and threats in cyberspace. (3) The Minister of Defence shall determine by regulation the terms and conditions for the construction and maintenance of a cyber reserve in order to increase the capacity and capabilities for cyber defence in interaction with the research and education community and industry. The Cyber Reserve participates in joint trainings and trainings and can be included if necessary to solve practical tasks related to cyber defence. (4) The Chief of Defence shall: 1. organise the maintenance of cyber defence capabilities to protect defence and armed forces management systems; 2. assign the integration of cyber defence tasks as an element of strategic planning into defence capabilities building plans and military operations plans; 3. organize and coordinate the conduct of international or national classes, trainings and exercises in the field of cyber defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u41	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the editorials of the texts proposed by the Commission to art. 9 which becomes Art. Art. 12, and to art. 10, which becomes art. 13. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 14: "Minster of Home Affairs" Art. 14. (1) The Minister of Interior shall conduct state policy in the field of countering cybercrime. (2) The authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall: 1. carry out operational and search activities to counter cybercrime and the resulting threats to national security and to the protection of public order; 2. maintain and develop capabilities for cyberprevention and protection, response, investigation and enforcement of computer crimes; 3. improve the organisational base and capabilities of the authorities to detect and investigate criminal activities in cyberspace and interact with all stakeholders; 4. conduct investigations into computer crimes committed, which result in threats to national security and public order; 5. carry out activities to raise public awareness of existing and emerging cyber threats and the associated risk of criminal acts. (3) In the General Directorate of Organized Crime Combating the Ministry of Interior shall be built: 1. A cybercrime centre carrying out activities to detect, investigate and document computer crimes at national level; 2. A team for response to computer security incidents for the Ministry of Interior. (4) In the performance of the activities under para. 2 and 3 General Directorate of Organized Crime at the Ministry of Interior: 1. maintain readiness for coordinated, joint reaction with the National Response Team for Computer Security incidents under art. 19; 2. assist the investigative bodies by preparing digital expertise on material evidence; 3. has technical, financial and human resources to ensure the effective implementation of the activities under para. 2 and for the construction of the Center under para. 3, p. 1. (5) Upon notification by the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry of Interior, enterprises providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall immediately, where technically possible, filter or cease harmful Internet traffic to a source of cyber attack, networks and information systems of the entities under art. 4, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal by the MP Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs: Article 2 is created. 11a: President of the State Agency "National Security" Article 11a. The Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" conducts the policy of the Council of Ministers in the field of specialized countering cybercrime and cyber terrorism. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 15: "National Security" State Agency Art. 15. (1) The State Agency shall implement the policy of cyber-incident protection in the communication and information systems of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security. (2) The State Agency shall establish and maintain a Centre for monitoring and response to incidents with significant detrimental impact on the communication and information systems of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security. (3) The Center under para. 2 performs the following activities: 1. monitoring and gathering information on events and incidents related to the security of communication and information systems of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security; 2. submitting cyber threat warnings and information on cyber incidents to strategic sites and activities relevant for national security; 3. providing methodological assistance in the process of managing cyberincidents; 4. ensuring a comprehensive analysis of the incoming information and an assessment of the information protection of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security. (4) The Center under para. 2 shall be prepared for a coordinated joint response within the National Coordination Organisational Cyber Security Network when incidents related to the security of communication and information systems of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security occur. (5) The Centre under para. 2 performs tasks related to the functions of the State Agency "National Security" under art. 6, para. 5 of the State Agency Act "National Security." (6) Upon notification by the State Agency, the Strategic Sites and Contracting Parties and the Strategic Activities shall immediately, where technically possible, filter or terminate the harmful Internet traffic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u43	Colleagues, speeches? Mr. Velkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to speak on the proposal, which Mr. Tsvetanov said was not accepted by the Commission and is about the President of the State Agency. We suggest to be included in art. 11a: The Head of the State Agency "National Security" conducts the policy of the Council of Ministers in the field of specialized countering cybercrime and cyber terrorism. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, when you set up the institutions, the Ministry of Defence, you say so: "Minster of Defence, the Minister of Defence conducts the state policy of protecting and actively countering cyber attacks and then: "Minster of Interior," the Minister of Interior conducts state policy in the field of countering cybercrime. It is now the turn of the State Agency of National Security, which is as if there is no President. You are going directly to: The State Agency is a specialized body of the Council of Ministers. This is written in the State Agency Act. It was about the function of the President, and in both places you refer to subjects, and here you only refer to the object. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Tsvetanov! I would like to tell you, and I have just missed, Mr President, that this draft law, given that in it the Minister of Defence is the prime minister of defence, is now also Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior, should be assigned to the committee responsible for the defence commission, which is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Hey, guys, any lines? Any other speeches? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Slavcho Velkov and a group of MPs. They voted 83 MPs: 23, against 44, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I will put two texts to the vote: the first text is the version proposed by the Commission for art. 11 by importer, which becomes art. 14; the second text is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 12 by importer, which becomes art. 15. Vote 81 MPs: 68 against 12, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u46	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 13 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new article. 15. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14, which becomes art. 16: "National Competent Authorities" Art. 16. (1) The Council of Ministers shall determine by decision the administrative bodies to which national competent network and information security authorities are established for the sectors and services referred to in Annexes 1 and 2, where they are not established by a special law. (2) National competent authority for all administrative bodies, as well as for persons and organisations under art. 4, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 is the State Agency. (3) The national competent authorities shall: 1. coordinate and control the implementation of the tasks related to the network and information security of the administrative authorities, operators of essential services and digital service providers under this law; 2. adopt, in coordination with the State Agency "ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT" guidelines on the circumstances under which the entities under art. 4, para. 1 are obliged to notify incidents; 3. assess whether the administrative authorities, essential service operators and digital service providers fulfil their obligations under Chapter Two, as well as the impact of such implementation on network and information security and take appropriate measures in the event of non-compliance; 4. in cooperation with the European Union Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) draw up recommendations and guidelines regarding technical areas to be taken into account in relation to the use of European or international standards and specifications relevant to network and information security; 5. In cooperation with the European Union Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), recommendations and guidelines relating to the use of existing standards, including national standards, shall be drawn up in order to ensure uniform application of Chapter 2. (4) National competent authorities shall ensure that computer security incident response teams under art. 18 and 19 receive notifications of incidents under this law. (5) The national competent authorities shall be entitled to require the administrative authorities and the operators of essential services: 1. information necessary to assess their network and information security, including existing security policies, results of network and information security audits where carried out by another qualified auditor and the evidence on which they are based; 2. evidence of effective implementation of the recommendations of audits of their network and information security. (6) In the request under para. 5 national competent authorities shall specify its purpose and specify what information or evidence is required. (7) After the assessment of the information or of the evidence under para. 5 the national competent authority concerned shall provide, where necessary, mandatory instructions to address the deficiencies identified in the fulfilment of the requirements laid down in Chapter 2. (8) For the purposes of Chapter 2, national competent authorities shall be entitled to require digital service providers to: 1. provide the information necessary to assess their network and information security, including existing security policies; 2. remove any failure to comply with the requirements laid down in Chapter 2. (9) When it receives evidence that a digital service provider does not meet the requirements laid down in Chapter Two, the relevant national competent authority shall take action under its powers under para. 8. Such evidence may be provided by a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union in which the digital service provider provides the service. (10) National competent authorities shall have the right to require from the computer security incident response teams under art. 18 and 19 information under art. 17, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 7. (11) National competent authorities shall assist the National Single Contact Point in carrying out its functions under art. 17, para. Two, three, four and seven. (12) National competent authorities shall cooperate with the personal data protection authorities in handling incidents leading to a breach of personal data security. (13) National competent authorities must have technical, financial and human resources to ensure that they are able to carry out the tasks entrusted to them effectively in accordance with this law. Article 15 "National Single Contact Point'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 17: National Single Contact Point Art. 17. (1) The National Single Contact Point shall be established at the State Agency. (2) The National Single Contact Point shall coordinate network and information security issues and cross-border cooperation issues with the relevant authorities in other Member States of the European Union. (3) The national single contact point shall provide every two years to the European Commission with information on the consistency of approaches for the identification of operators of essential services, which shall include: 1. the national measures by which the operators of essential services are designated; 2. a list of essential services; 3. the number of operators of essential services defined for each sector in Annex 1 and their importance for that sector; 4. the thresholds, where any, for determining the minimum level of service supplied in relation to the number of users relying on them; 5. the importance of the specific operator of essential services to maintain a sufficient level of service given the availability of other options for providing this service. (4) The National Single Contact Point shall inform the European Commission of: 1. the scope of the tasks of the response teams to computer security incidents under art. 18 and 19 as well as the essential elements of their incident response procedure, after their establishment or in the event of an amendment of their status or procedures; 2. the adopted National Network and Information Security Strategy within three months of its adoption. (5) In the event of a cross-border incident, the National Single Contact Point shall inform the national single contact point of the other Member State concerned where a request under art. 19th para. 2, p. 9 from the National Computer Security Accident Response Team. (6) In the cases under para. 5 The National Single Contact Point shall retain the commercial interests of the operator of essential services or of the digital service provider, as well as the confidentiality of the information contained in their notifications, in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation and European Union law. (7) The National Single Contact Point shall submit once a year a summary report to the Cooperation Group on the notifications received under art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 22, para. Art. 2, Art. 23, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 25, para. 3, the nature of the incidents and actions taken to resolve them. (8) The National Single Contact Point shall have the right to request from the national competent authorities the information under para. 3 and para. 4 t. 1 and by the National Team for Response to Computer Security Accidents "The Information under para. 7. (9) In case of necessity, the national competent authorities and the National Single Contact Point shall cooperate with the relevant law enforcement authorities and the Commission for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote three texts: the Commission's proposal to reject art. 13 by importer; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14 by importer, which becomes art. 16; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 15 by importer, which becomes art. 17. They voted 86 MPs: for 73, against 6, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u48	Article 16 "Secretary Response Teams for Computer Security Incidents." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 18: "Secretary Response Teams for Computer Security Accidents" Art. 18. (1) The administrative bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, including the State Agency of Electronic Management, create sector response teams for computer security incidents. The teams shall be set up with the national competent authorities in accordance with the methodological guidelines of the European Union Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA). (2) Sectoral teams shall carry out their activities in accordance with procedures established by the head of the office to which they are established and shall comply with the following requirements: 1. to have high reliability communication channels to enable them to be searched at any time and to be clearly indicated and well known to the entities under art. 4, para. 1 and of the partners; 2. sector teams and information systems supporting their activities shall be located in protected areas; 3. ensure continuity of their activities by: (a) an appropriate system for managing and allocating requests; (b) sufficient personnel to be permanently available; (c) infrastructure with a guaranteed continuity of operation provided by backup systems and back-up workspace; 4. the implementation of reactive, proactive activities and security management activities in accordance with the EU regulations and recommended documents, with the instructions of the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) and with the Bulgarian legislation. (3) Sectoral computer security incident response teams shall have resources to perform their tasks effectively, which shall include at least the following: 1. monitoring of incidents at national level; 2. the submission of early warnings, alarms, communications and dissemination of incident information and risks to the relevant entities; 3. reaction to incidents and provision of methodological assistance in solving accidents... on request; 4. providing dynamic analysis of the risks and incidents and information about the current situation. (4) Sectoral response teams to computer security incidents shall cooperate with the private sector and with academics. (5) In order to facilitate cooperation, sector response teams to computer security incidents shall promote the adoption and use of common standardisation practices for: 1. procedures for taking action in incidents and risks; 2. schemes for classification of incidents, risks and information. (6) Sectoral response teams for computer security incidents shall cooperate in the National Network of Computer Security Accident Response Teams, which shall be built by sectoral teams and by the National Team under art. 19. (7) Sectoral computer security incident response teams shall immediately inform the National Computer Security incident response team of the notifications of incidents with significant detrimental effects, of incidents with significant impact and of cross-border incidents submitted under this law. (8) Sectoral computer security incident response teams shall send once every three months aggregated statistical information to the National Computer Security incident response team on all network and information security incidents recorded by them. (9) Sectoral response teams to computer security incidents covering strategic sites and activities relevant for national security: 1. build communication with the Center under art. 15, para. 2 which is used to support the implementation of the activities under art. 15; 2. notify immediately the Centre under Article 2. 15, para. 2 for the occurrence of accidents. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9, p. 2 the follow-up of the entities referred to in Article 2. 4, para. 1 shall coordinate with the Centre under art. 15, para. 2 and with the relevant sector response team for computer security incidents. Article 17 "National Computer Security Incident Response Team." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 19: National Team for Response to Computer Security Accidents Art. 19. (1) A National Team for Response to Computer Security Accidents shall be established at the State Agency. It shall meet the requirements of art. 18, para. 2. (2) The National Computer Security Accident Response Team shall: 1. act as a contact point on issues related to network and information security at national level and on operational issues at international level; 2. assist the activities of the establishment of sector response teams for computer security incidents; 3. participate in the construction and activities of the National Network of Response Teams in computer security incidents; 4. summarize and analyse the information provided by sector response teams to computer security incidents and prepare reports if necessary; 5. provide advice and recommendations to the authorities of the government, local self-government bodies and legal entities established by a special law on important issues related to network and information security; 6. provide expert support to the administrative authorities and other legal entities in the construction, deployment and maintenance of IT security management systems under national and international standards in this area; 7. participate in the development and testing of national and European Union and NATO standard operational procedures; 8. in the event of network and information security incidents, give recommended instructions to administrative authorities, national competent authorities and sector response teams for computer security incidents; 9. inform immediately the National Single Contact Point of notifications of cross-border incidents with significant detrimental effects and of cross-border incidents with significant impact submitted under this Law and, where necessary, request assistance from the National Single Contact Point for their authorisation; 10. participate in international cooperation networks. (3) The undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall assist the National Response Team in computer security incidents to eliminate cyber incidents identified by it in their networks and/or services. Article 18 "Cooperation and coordination'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 20: "Cooperation and coordination" Art. 20. (1) The coordination and management at strategic level shall be carried out by the Cyber Security Council in cooperation with the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The National Cybersecurity Coordinator shall ensure the link between the strategic management and the operational coordination system. (2) The State Agency shall coordinate the activities of the establishment of the National Cyber Security Coordination Network and of the National Cyber Situation Centre in cooperation with the State Agency of National Security, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. (3) For the coordination and exchange of information in the event of an incident or in the case of the carrying out of a computer crime at an interdepartmental level, contact points shall be established to inform the competent institutions in the case and to prepare a common response. The procedures and rules for such cooperation shall be laid down by an agreement on the interaction between the institutions concerned. (4) For the coordination of cyber-attack response activities and large-scale incidents, the Chairman of the State Agency of Electronic Management may establish inter-agency operational groups with the participation of departments, organisations and institutions, including from the private sector involved in these activities. (5) Cooperation at international level shall be carried out through the Cooperation Group and coordination and cooperation between computer security incident response teams on the Network of National Computer Security Response Teams.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Switching to vote. I shall put to the vote three texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 16 by importer, which becomes art. 18; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 17 by importer, which becomes art. 19; and the version which the Commission proposes for art. 18 by importer, which becomes art. 20. Vote 91 MPs: 77 against 11, abstention 3. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u50	"Chapter 2 " Network and Information Security of Administrative Authorities, Public Services Organizations and Public Functions. " The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 2 be amended as follows: "Chapter 2" "Network and Information Security." "Requirements to the administrative authorities'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 21: "Administrations of administrative authorities with regard to security requirements and incident notification Art. 21. (1) The administrative authorities shall ensure and be responsible for the security of the networks and information systems they use. (2) The administrative authorities shall undertake: 1. appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure a level of network and information security corresponding to the existing risk; 2. appropriate measures to prevent and minimise the impact of incidents affecting their network and information security in order to ensure continuity of their activities; 3. the measures determined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2. (3) The administrative authorities shall notify the sector's computer security incident response team of incidents having an impact on the continuity of their activities. (4) Initial notification shall be made within two hours of the occurrence. Notifications shall be submitted in accordance with a template according to the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2 and contain information enabling the sectoral team to determine the possible cross-border impact of the incident. (5) Within 5 working days the administrative authority shall provide the sectoral team with the full information on the incident determined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2. (6) In the presence of a reasoned assumption that the reported incident may be classified as a computer crime, the sector team shall inform the General Directorate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (7) The Sectoral Team shall maintain the confidentiality of the information contained in the notifications. "Requirements to public service providers'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20, which becomes art. 22: "Indemnities of persons in public functions and organisations providing public services with regard to security and incident notification requirements Art. 22. (1) The persons and organisations referred to in art. 4, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 provide and are responsible for their network and information security in the provision of administrative services by electronic means. (2) The persons and organizations under para. 1 notify the sector's computer security incident response team of incidents having an impact on the continuity of the administrative services they provide electronically. In these cases, art. 1 shall apply accordingly. 21, para. 4, 5 and 6. (3) The Sectoral Response Team shall preserve the commercial interests of persons and organisations under para. 1 as well as the confidentiality of the information contained in their notifications. "Requirements to public functions'. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 21 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new Article. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u51	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I'll put four texts to the vote. The first text is the change of the name of Chapter Two, which is proposed by the Commission; the second text of the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 19 by importer, which becomes art. 21; the third text of the draft version proposed by the Commission to the text of art. 20 by importer, which becomes art. 22; and the fourth text the rejection of art. 21 by importer which the Commission proposes. Vote 85 MPs: 69 against 14, abstention 2. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u52	"Chapter 3 " Network and information security of operators of essential services ". The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name "Instructions of operators of essential services with regard to security requirements and notification of incidents'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 23: "Indemnities of operators of essential services with regard to security requirements and incident notification Art. 23. (1) The operators of essential services shall undertake: 1. appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure a level of network and information security corresponding to the existing risk; 2. appropriate measures to prevent and minimise the impact of incidents affecting their network and information security in order to ensure continuity of their essential services; 3. the measures determined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2. (2) The operators of essential services shall notify the relevant sector response team to computer security incidents of incidents having an impact on the continuity of the essential services they provide. In these cases, art. 1 shall apply accordingly. 21, para. 4, 5 and 6. (3) Where a material service operator relies on a digital service provider to provide a material service, the operator shall notify the digital service provider of any significant damaging effect on the continuity of the essential service due to an incident affecting the digital service provider. (4) The relevant sector response team to computer security incidents shall retain the commercial interests of the material service operator and the confidentiality of the information contained in its notification. "Provide information." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 24: supplied information Art. 24. (1) The relevant computer security incident response team shall, upon request, provide the applicant with the notification of an administrative authority, person or organisation under art. 4, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 and a material service operator relevant information on the follow-up of the notification, including information that would help to take effective action in the incident. (2) After consulting the relevant entity under para. 1 filed the notification, the relevant computer security incident response team may inform the public of individual incidents where public awareness is needed to prevent an incident or address an ongoing incident. "Application and implementation." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 24 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u53	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first is the Commission's proposal to reject the name by importer of Chapter Three; the second text which the Commission proposes in the text of art. 22 by importer, which becomes art. 23; the third version which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 23, which becomes art. 24; the fourth supposed proposal of the Commission to reject the text of the importer under art. 24. Vote 78 MPs: 67 against 7, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted. I'm calling off work by 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u54	Here we go, honourable Members of the House. Mr. Tsvetanov, we'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u55	"Chapters 4 - Network and Information Security of Digital Service Providers." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name Security requirements and notification of incidents. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: supplies of digital service providers with regard to security requirements and incident notification Art. 25. (1) Digital service providers shall undertake: 1. appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage the risks to the security of networks and information systems used by them in providing the services referred to in Annex No 2 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. appropriate measures to prevent and minimise the impact of incidents affecting their network and information security on the services provided by them in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria referred to in Annex 2 in order to ensure continuity of those services; 3. the measures determined by the ordinance under art. 3, para. 2. (2) The measures under para. 1, t. 1 provide a level of network and information security corresponding to the existing risk, taking into account: 1. the security of systems and facilities; 2. actions in incidents; 3. management of continuity of activities; 4. monitoring, audit and testing; 5. Compliance with international standards. (3) Digital service providers shall notify the relevant sector response team to computer security incidents of incidents which have a significant impact on the continuity of the digital services they provide. In these cases, art. 1 shall apply accordingly. 21, para. 4, 5 and 6. (4) In order to determine the impact of an incident, account shall be taken of: 1. the number of users affected by the incident, in particular users relying on the service to provide their own services; 2. the duration of the incident; 3. the geographical scope of the area affected by the incident; 4. the degree of disruption of the operation of the service; 5. the degree of impact on business and public activities. (5) Digital service providers shall submit a notification under para. 3 only when they have access to the information necessary to assess the impact of the incident as material under para. 4. (6) After consulting the digital service provider concerned, the relevant sector response team for computer security incidents and, where applicable, the authorities or response team for computer security incidents of other Member States concerned, may inform the public of individual incidents or request the digital service provider to inform the public where public awareness is necessary to prevent an incident or to deal with an ongoing incident or where disclosure of the incident is in the public interest for other reasons. (7) The relevant sector response team to computer security incidents shall retain the commercial interests of the digital service provider and the confidentiality of the information contained in its notification. "Application and implementation." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 26 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u56	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any who wish to speak on the reported texts? I don't see any requests. We are voting on the name of Chapter Four, which the Commission does not support and proposes to reject. They voted 86 MPs: 75, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposed version of the Commission for a text of art. 25. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission the text of art. 26, proposed by the importer, to be rejected. They voted 83 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u57	"Chapter 5" "Jurisdiction and territoriality." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 26: "Jurisdiction and territoriality in relation to a digital service provider Art. 26. (1) Where a digital service provider has its registered office and address of management or representative in the Republic of Bulgaria, but its networks and information systems are located in one or more other Member States of the European Union, the relevant national competent authority and the competent authorities of the other States shall cooperate and assist each other if necessary. Aid and cooperation may include exchange of information between the relevant competent authorities and requests to take action under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 8. (2) A digital service provider not established in a Member State of the European Union but offering in the European Union the services listed in Annex No 2 shall designate a representative in the European Union. The representative must be established in one of the Member States of the European Union where the services are offered. Where the representative has its registered office and address of management in the Republic of Bulgaria, it is assumed that the digital service provider is under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The designation of a representative by the digital service provider shall be without prejudice to legal proceedings which could be initiated against the digital service provider itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u58	Are there any statements on the reported texts? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Five, not supported by the Commission, and the proposal of the Commission to edit art. 27, which becomes art. 26 reported by Mr. Tsvetanov. 90 MPs voted: 81, against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u59	"Chapter 6" - Standardization and voluntary notification. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name "Standartization." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 28 to be rejected. "Voluntary notification" The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 27: "Notification of incidents by entities other than those referred to in art. 4, para. 1 Art. 27. (1) Entities other than those referred to in art. 4, para. 1 may notify sector response teams to computer security incidents of incidents having an impact on the continuity of their services. (2) When processing the notifications, the sectoral response teams for computer security incidents shall act in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Chapter, such as the notifications of the entities under art. 4, para. 1 shall be treated with priority over the notifications under para. 1. (3) The notifications under para. 1 shall be processed only where this does not constitute a disproportionate or unjustified burden.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u60	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the reported texts for Chapter Six: the name of Chapter Six, which the Commission proposes to reject, the Commission proposal art. 28 to be rejected, the Commission's proposal for art. 29, which becomes art. 27. Vote 91 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u61	..criminal administrative provisions.. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 7 which becomes Chapter Three. "Administrative penalties and capital punishments." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 30 to be rejected. "Accomplishment of administrative authorities, public service organisations and public functions persons for infringements related to incident notification'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 28: ? Responsible for incidents related to notification of incidents Art. 28. (1) An administrative body which does not notify or notify after the period referred to in art. 21, para. 4 the sector response team for computer security incidents for each incident having an impact on the continuity of its activity and where the notification does not contain sufficient information under art. 21, para. 4 sentence two, in case the act does not constitute a crime, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 penalty is a fine from 2000 to 20 000 leva. (3) Person or organisation under art. 4, para. 1, t. 3 and 4, which does not notify or notify after the term referred to in Article 4. 21, para. 4 the sector-specific computer security incident response team for each incident which has an impact on the continuity of the administrative services provided by them electronically and where the notification does not contain sufficient information under art. 21, para. 4 sentence two, in case the act does not constitute a crime, a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. or a penalty of 1500 to 15 000 BGN. (4) In case of repeated infringement under para. 3 the fine is from 2000 to 20 000 BGN and the penalty is from 5000 to 25 000 BGN. (5) Fines and property penalties under para. 3 and 4 shall also be imposed on an operator of essential services which does not notify or notify after the period referred to in Article 4. 21, para. 4 the sector-specific computer security incident response team concerned for each incident having an impact on the continuity of the essential services provided by it and where the notification does not contain sufficient information under art. 21, para. 4 sentence two, in case the act does not constitute a crime. (6) Fines and property penalties under para. 3 and 4 shall also be imposed on a digital service provider which does not notify or notify after the period referred to in Article 4. 21, para. 4 the sector-specific computer security incident response team concerned for each incident having a significant impact on the continuity of the digital services provided by it and where the notification does not contain sufficient information under art. 21, para. 4 sentence two, in case the act does not constitute a crime. The operator's response to material services for infringements related to the notification of incidents. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 32 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in para. 5 of the new Art. 28. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 33 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in para. 6 of the new Art. 28. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 29: "Guidelines for non-information or non-compliance with instructions Art. 29. (1) An administrative body which does not provide the information and evidence under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 5 or does not comply with mandatory instructions under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 7, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 leva. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 penalty is a fine from 2000 to 20 000 leva. (3) When the act under para. 1 is carried out by an operator of essential services, a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. or a penalty of 1500 to 15 000 BGN. (4) In case of repeated infringement under para. 3 the fine is from 2000 to 20 000 BGN and the penalty is from 5000 to 25 000 BGN. (5) Fines and property penalties under para. 3 and 4 shall also be imposed on a digital service provider which does not provide the information under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 8, p. 1 or not to remove a failure under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 8, p. 2. "Requirement for other violations" "Art. 34. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 30: Other infringements shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. Art. 30. (1) An official who commits or allows another infringement under Chapter 2 shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN, unless the act constitutes a crime. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 penalty is a fine from 1500 to 15 000 leva. (3) A person who fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 14, para. Art. 5, art. 15, para. Art. 6 and art. 19th para. 3, a fine from 1000 to 10 000 leva is required. or a penalty of 1500 to 15 000 BGN The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 35 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in para. 3 of the new Art. 30. "Declaration of violations, issue, appeal and execution of criminal The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 31: "Establishment of infringements, issue, appeal and execution of criminal decrees Art. 31. (1) The acts for the detection of infringements under this law committed by administrative authorities, as well as for infringements under art. 28, para. 3 and 4 and under art. 30, para. 3 in relation to Art. 19th para. 3 shall be composed of officials appointed by the President of the State Agency. (2) The acts establishing infringements under this law carried out by operators of essential services or digital service providers shall be drawn up by officials appointed by the heads of administrative bodies under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (3) The acts for the detection of infringements under art. 30, para. 3 in relation to Art. 14, para. 5 shall be composed of officials appointed by the Minister of Interior. (4) The acts for the detection of infringements under art. 30, para. 3 in relation to Art. 15, para. 6 shall be composed of officials appointed by the President of the State Agency. (5) Penal orders shall be issued by: 1. the President of the State Agency 1; 2. the heads of the administrative bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 or by the officials expressly empowered by them in the cases referred to in para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the Minister of Interior or by the officials expressly empowered by him in the cases under para. 3; 4. the President of the State Agency "National Security" or by the officials specifically appointed by him in the cases under para. 4. (6) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want to make speeches. We are going to vote on the reported texts. First, the name of Chapter 7, which becomes Chapter Three; the Commission proposal art. 30 to be rejected; the name of the unit of responsibility of the administrative bodies and bodies providing public services and public functions for infringements related to the notification of incidents; the proposal of the Commission for editing of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 28; the proposal in the Commission Report, by which it generally supports the text of the importer and proposes art. 32 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place; the motion to reject art. 33, as it is reflected in its systematic place in para. 6 of the new Art. 28; the proposal in the Commission Report on the creation of a new art. 29 in the Report; the name of the department of responsibility for other violations and the proposal of the Commission for editing of art. 34, which becomes art. 30; the Commission proposal in support of the text of the importer art. 35 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in the new article. 30; and the proposal of the Commission for editing of art. 36, which becomes art. 31 in the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 3, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u63	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, and in it the word "the provisions' shall be replaced by "the provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall provide for and provide for measures to be adopted by the applicant for § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. For the purposes of this law: 1. "Administrative authority" is the concept within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Governance. 2. The Cooperation Group shall be the group within the meaning of art. 11 of Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union (OB, L 194/1 of 19 July 2016).). 3. All procedures supporting the identification, analysis and limitation of an incident and the response to such an incident are actions in the event of an accident. 4. The term of office of a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 5. A DNS service provider is an entity providing DNS services over the Internet. DNS (Domain Name System) is a domain name system that is a hierarchically distributed network system for naming domains that distribute domain names. 6. "Digital service provider' is a legal entity providing a digital service. 7. "World Internet traffic" is anomaly of Internet traffic caused by hardware or software damage to Internet packages with maliciously modified options. 8. It is a complex of organizational, legal, technical and technological measures for monitoring, analysis, active prevention, reducing the impact of vulnerability, sharing information about them, including eliminating the consequences of incidents. 9. The following indicators shall be determined to take into account the following indicators: (a) number of users relying on the services provided by the entity; (b) the dependence of other sectors on the service provided by the entity referred to in Annex 1; (c) the impact that incidents could have in terms of scale and duration on business and public activities or on public safety; (d) the market share of the entity; (e) the geographical scope of the area that would be affected by an incident; (f) the importance of the entity to maintain a sufficient level of service, taking into account the availability of other means for the provision of that service. Where appropriate, sector-specific indicators shall also be taken into account to determine whether an incident would have a significant detrimental effect. 10. "Ciberate attack" is an attempt to destroy, detect, modify, ban, steal or obtain unauthorised access to/or unauthorised use of an information asset. 11. The cyber threat is the possibility of malicious attempt to damage or disrupt the computer network, system, services and data. 12. "Cyberency" is an event or a series of unwanted or unexpected cyber-security events that are highly likely to cause the activities to be compromised and threaten the security of information. 13. It is a cyber incident that has a serious impact on the government's activities, on the provision of essential services to a large part of the Bulgarian population or on the economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 14. A high priority cyberincident is a cyber incident that has a serious impact on a large organization or on wider/local governance or which poses a significant risk for the provision of essential services to a large part of the Bulgarian population or the economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 15. "Cyberincident with a high priority' is a cyber incident that has a serious impact on a medium-sized organisation or which poses a significant risk to a large organisation or to wider/local governance. 16. It is a complex of measures and capabilities to protect and actively counter cyber attacks and hybrid impacts on communication and information systems and defence and armed forces management systems, as well as on country's emergency management systems, martial law or state of war and on strategic sites that are relevant for national security. 17. The Cyberspace is a global network of computer processing systems, electronic communications networks, computer programs and data. 18. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts and experts in the field of cybersecurity, information and information technology, with competences relating to the protection and sustainability of communication and information systems. 19. A computer service in a cloud is a digital service that enables access to a variable in scale and elastic set of computer resources that can be used jointly. 20. "Persons in public functions" is the concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 11 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Governance. 21. There is a massive incident when there have been incidents with an average priority in networks and information systems of more than 4 of the entities under art. 4, para. 1 with a high priority in networks and information systems of more than two of the entities under art. 4, para. 1 and with a significant priority of more than one of the entities under art. 4, para. 1. The classification of incidents according to the type of attack shall be determined by a methodology of the European Union Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA). 22. The Network of National Response Teams for Computer Security incident is the Network within the meaning of art. 12 of Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union (OB, L 194/1 of 19 July 2016).). 23. The Network and Information System is: (a) an electronic communications network within the meaning of § 1, t. 15 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications; (b) any device or group of connected or connected devices, one or more of which processes digital data automatically by programme; or (c) digital data stored, processed, extracted or carried by elements covered by points 24. The online trading venue is a digital service which gives users or traders within the meaning of § 13, item 13. 1 and 2 of the additional provisions of the Consumer Protection Act the possibility to conclude contracts for online sales or services with traders or on the website of the online trading venue or on the website of the trader using electronic services provided by the online trading venue. 25. "Online search engine" is a digital service that enables Internet users to search as a rule on all websites or websites in a given language based on an inquiry on any topics in the form of a keyword, expression or other type of input data, in response to which it submits internet links containing information related to the requested content. 26. The concept of § 1, point (c) is that of the public service undertaking which is a public service undertaking which is a public service undertaking. 14 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Governance. 27. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the violator for the same type of infringement is repeated. 28. The Member State of the European Union, which is specifically designated to act on behalf of a digital service provider not established in a Member State of the European Union, is a natural or legal person established in a Member State of the European Union and to which a national competent authority or a computer security incident response team may address, instead of the digital service provider, the digital service provider's obligations under that law. 29. "Register of first-level domain names" is an entity that carries out and manages the registration of internet domain names in a first-level domain (top-level domain "TLD). 30. Risks are the potential for a threat to occur by exploiting the vulnerability of information assets in order to cause harm. 31. The services in question are services which are essential for maintaining particularly important public and/or business activities in one of the following sectors: energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructure, healthcare, supply and supply of drinking water or digital infrastructure. 32. The specification is technical specification within the meaning of art. 2, p. 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on European standardisation amending Council Directives 89/686/EEC and 93/15/EEC and Directives 94/9/EC, 94/25/EC, 95/16/EC, 97/23/EC, 98/34/EC, 2004/22/EC, 2007/23/EC, 2009/23/EC and 2009/105/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Decision 87/95/EEC and Decision No 1673/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 316/12 of 14 November 2012).). 33. The Internet Exchange Point (IT) is a network tool that enables the connection of more than two independent autonomous systems primarily to facilitate the exchange of internet traffic. Only autonomous systems are connected through IT. It does not require Internet traffic passing between any two autonomous systems involved to pass through a third autonomous system, nor does it alter or otherwise affect such traffic. 34. "Vulnerability" is the uncertainty of the information system, internal control and security procedures and their implementation, which can be used for the destructive impact of the system. 35. A service is a service within the meaning of art. 1 Paragraph 1 (b) of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 establishing a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services (OJ L 241, 17 September 2015);), of the categories listed in Annex No 2. 36. The infrastructure is an infrastructure that includes TOI, DNS service providers and first-level domain names registers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any statements on the reported texts? No. We are going to vote on the name "Additional provisions" in favour of the Commission; the Commission's proposal for a text of § 1 by amending a single word with requirements. The Commission's proposal for a text of § 2 and the Commission's proposal for § 3 of Section "Additional provisions." Vote 100 MPs: 90 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u65	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The Council of Ministers shall: 1. within two months of the entry into force of the Law, the administrative authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and adopt the methodology referred to in Article 1. 4, para. 3; 2. within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law shall adopt the regulation under art. 3, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The administrative bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - 1. within two months of the adoption of the judgment under § 4, item 1. 1 establish national competent authorities and sectoral teams to them under art. 18, para. 1 as well as laying down the rules for the activities of their administrations in accordance with the Law; 2. within 5 months of the adoption of the judgment under § 4, item 2. 1 designate the operators of essential services and notify the President of the State Agency. 2) Within 4 months of the entry into force of the Law, the State Agency of Electronic Management shall establish a sectoral team under art. 18, para. 1 and aligns in accordance with the Law the Rules of Procedure under art. 7a, para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 5 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in the new § 5, para. 1, t. 2. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 6 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in the new § 5, para. 1, t. 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 243b, para. 4 after the word....................................................... 19th para. 1 of the Cyber Security Act The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Electronic Governance (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) c. point (d) is repealed; (b) point 6 is repealed; (c) c. 12 the words "net and information security" and the comma before them are deleted; (d) shall be established. 27: "27." Implements the powers under the Cyber Security Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7k, para. 2, p. 3 is canceled. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 2 the 4. In Chapter 4, Section III with art. 54, 55 and 55a is canceled. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 1 The words of this law are deleted and finally added under this law and under the Cyber Security Act. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the words "skill and information security" shall be deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the title, the words "skilling and information security' shall be deleted; (b) in para. 1 the words "net and information security" and "information security" shall be deleted; (c) in para. 2 the words "information security" and "information security" are deleted. 8. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 is amended as follows: ..10. "Network and Information Security" is the concept within the meaning of art. 2, para. 3 of the Cyber Security Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) in § 145, para. 14, p. 27 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words "Art. 43, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Governance. 3, para. 2 of the Cyber Security Act. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: To create § 10a and 10b: 10a. In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. (c) in § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Council of Ministers shall, by 31 December 2018, adopt the Rules implementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 11 and 12: ..................................................... In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. (c) in § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words § 12. The Council of Ministers shall, by 31 December 2018, adopt the Rules implementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National In § 12 it must be added that § 10a enters into force from 1 October 2018 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 15, para. Art. 3, 4 and 5 and art. 18, para. 9, p. 2 and para. 10 shall enter into force from 1 January 2022 and § 11 shall enter into force from 1 October 2018. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u66	So far, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? I don't see any requests for a statement. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter. shown and final provisions. The Commission's proposal for a text report of § 4; the Commission's proposal is to create a new § 5; the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 on the Report as it is reflected in its systematic place; the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 as it is reflected in its systematic place at the new § 5; a proposal in the Commission's report on the version of § 7 which becomes § 6; the Commission's proposal to support the Commission's report on the text of § 8; the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 9 which becomes § 8; the Commission's proposal for a text of § 10, which becomes § 9; the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 10; the Commission's proposal to support the proposal of the proposal of the Member of the National Representative Ts Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules establishing new § 10a and 10b; a proposal on the Commission Report for a text of § 11; a proposal for the text of § 12 of the Commission Report; a proposal for support of the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 13; a proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Finally, it is the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 12, which becomes § 14. Vote 108 MPs: 93 against 9, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u67	Annex 1 to art. 2, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 1: Annex 1 to art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 - List of sectors and subsectors under art. 4, para. 1, t. 2. Annex 2 to art. 2, para. 1 "Species of digital services'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 2 and shall in it the words......................................................................................................... 2, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 4, para. 1, t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u68	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposed texts for Annex 1 to art. 4, para. 1 and the proposed version for text of Annex 2 to art. 2, para. 1 reported by the rapporteur. Vote 91 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 3. The proposals have been adopted and, with this, the full text of the second vote. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u69	First of all, I would like to thank all those who worked in the expert group, these were representatives from all departments, including the State Agency of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information, the Ministry of Defence and all non-governmental organizations that participated actively so that they could actually between first and second reading the huge amount of work that was done should be supported in the meeting that was held at the Internal Commission last Wednesday. I thank all my fellow Members who participated today in the vote, because this bill allows us to be one of the first countries to fulfil its commitment to the adoption of the directive and to align national legislation. I am convinced that this will enable the competent authorities and the creation of these units to be much stronger and to counter cyber attacks and threats to the country and the relevant institutions or Internet providers. Thank you all for your efforts and for the vote we have made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We're done working on that. 1 of our weekly Programme "Second vote on the Cyber Security Bill adopted at the first vote on 27 June 2018. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE RIGHTS AND HIS NEIGHBOURHOOD RIGHTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. Adopted in first vote on 10 October 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u72	There's been a procedural proposal for admission to the court. Please vote regime for admission of Deputy Minister Dimitrov. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Deputy Minister Dimitrov to the hall. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u73	On 13 August 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on an amendment and supplement to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018, which was adopted at the first vote on 10 October 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Copyright and Related Rights Act (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u75	Under paragraph 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Evgeni Budinov, made in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Chapter 5 before Article 5. 23 a name is created
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u76	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 1. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u77	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u78	And § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2 and the text of the importer for § 3. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u81	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Section II shall be established in Chapter Five with art. 26a "26e": "Department II" Specific provisions for persons with disabilities who do not allow the reading of printed materials Subject matter Art. 26a. (1) Without the consent of the holder of rights and without payment of remuneration, the use under this section of written works or related other objects of protection for the benefit of disabled persons who do not allow the reading of printed materials shall be permissible. (2) A written work or related other subject of protection shall be: 1. a work created in writing which has been disclosed and reproduced in accordance with this law in any way and in any form as a book, specialized edition, newspaper, magazine, notable material, musical score and illustration; 2. subject to a related right, which includes the object under point 2. 1 or is an integral part of it. (3) A person with a disability who does not allow the reading of printed materials shall be a person who: 1. is blind; 2. has permanently impaired vision and is unable to read printed works to the same extent as a person without such damage; 3. has sensory or obstruction of reading damage and is incapable of reading printed works to the same extent as a person without such damage; 4. due to physical impairment is unable to hold a book or handle it, or cannot focus your sight or move your eyes to the extent that is usually necessary for reading. Creating and providing for the use of an accessible format copy Art. 26b. (1) Use under art. 26a, para. 1 of a written work or related other object of protection for the creation of an accessible format copy must meet the conditions of art. 23, be directly related to the specific damage and not to be carried out for profit purposes. The use by sentence first is permissible: 1. by actions under art. 18, para. 2, p. 1... 5, 7, 8 and 10; 2. when lending under art. 22a, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 84, 90 and 90c concerning Art. 22a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. by actions under art. 76, para. 1, t. 1 "On recording, video recording, reproduction of the recordings and their dissemination, etc. 3; 4. by actions under art. 86, para. 1, t. Art. 1, 3 and 4 and art. 88; 5. by actions under art. 90a, para. 1, t. 1, 5, 6 and 8; 6. by actions under art. Reg. 91, para. 1, t. 1...................................................................................... 2, 3 and 4; 7. by actions under art. 93c. In the cases referred to in the sentence, second paragraph is replaced by the following: 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 18a shall not apply. (2) A copy in accessible format shall be a copy in a form or form by which a person with a disability who does not allow the reading of printed materials shall have access to a written work or to a related other subject of protection in a manner and to the same extent as a person without damage under art. 26a, para. 3. An accessible format is braille font, large font, adapted e-book, recording of the content of a written work (audiobook), radio transmission and the like. (3) An accessible format copy may create: 1. person with disability under art. 26a, para. 3 in person or through a person acting on his behalf; 2. a legal person who has notified the Minister of Culture has its headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria and is: (a) a community center, or (b) for non-profit purposes for carrying out socially useful activities for the benefit of disabled persons under art. 26a, para. 3, or (c) a public or municipal cultural organisation operating in a library, or (d) a special school for training and support to students with sensory impairments. (4) Legal person under para. 3, p. 2 may provide a copy in accessible format directly to a person with damage under art. 26a, para. 3 or by another person under para. 3, p. 2 regardless of the Member State of the European Union in which its permanent address or seat is located. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, use by: 1. Article 18, para. 2, p. 2, 4, 5 and 10; 2. Article 76, para. 1, t. 1...................................................................................... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 3; 3. Art. 86, para. 1, t. 1...................................................................................... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 4; 4. Article 90a, para. 1, t. 3...................................................................................... 4, 6 and 8; 5. Art. 91, para. 1, t. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of (5) The accessible format copy shall preserve the integrity of the written work or the associated other object of protection from which it was created, taking into account the changes necessary for its creation. (6) Person with disability under art. 26a, para. 3 or a legal person under para. 3, p. 2 with a permanent address or headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be entitled to receive a copy in accessible format or access to such a copy by another person under para. 3, p. 2 regardless of the Member State of the European Union in which its seat is located. (7) The contract limiting the rights under this section shall be null and void. Obligations of the legal person under art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 Art. 26c. (1) The legal person referred to in art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 inform the Minister of Culture of its intention to create and provide accessible format copies, including changes, within three months of the decision of the Management Authority. The notification shall contain a name, legal status and contact details. (2) The actions under art. 26b, para. 1 and 4 shall be documented and carried out by the legal person referred to in Article 4. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 with due care and in a way that ensures that the created copy is in accessible format: 1. does not violate the non-material rights under Article 1. 15, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and 5, Art. 75, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 87; 2. shall be provided according to art. 26b, para. 4 only of persons with disabilities under art. 26a, para. 3 or of legal persons under art. 26b, para. 3, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. shall not be used in violation of Article 3. 26b. (3) The legal person referred to in art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 publish information on compliance with the obligations under para. 2 on your website as well as in another appropriate way. The information shall be updated twice a year. (4) The legal person referred to in art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 with a seat in the Republic of Bulgaria upon request of a person with a disability under art. 26a, para. 3 from another person under art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 or from a holder of a right, inform him in an accessible way of: 1. the list of written works or related other objects of protection with accessible format copies of which it has, as well as the available formats; 2. the name and contact details of legal persons having their registered office in other Member States of the European Union with which they exchange accessible format copies. List of legal persons under art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 Art. 26 years old. (1) The Minister of Culture or his authorised Deputy Minister shall maintain and publish on the website of the Ministry of Culture a list of legal persons under art. 26b, para. 3, p. 2, notified. (2) The Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall provide the European Commission with the list under para. 1 and shall notify the Commission of changes to it within three months of their entry into force. Protection of personal data Art. 26e. Personal data provided in connection with this section shall be processed in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 4. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u83	Proposal by the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. 4 after the words. 943b1 "supplied" is added as "supplied." 3 " 6 ". 2. In para. 6 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the 3. In para. 7 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u84	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 5. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u85	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94d The 1. In para. 1 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the words.............................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 5 after the words the Minister of Culture and the Deputy Minister of Culture shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u86	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u87	Proposal by the National Representative Emilia Milkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95c, para. The second sentence of paragraph 2 shall be the following: 1, t. 1s and 1s are replaced by... for collective management of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u88	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u89	Under Paragraph 7, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 "The legal person referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall be the legal person referred to in Article 2 (2) of that Regulation. 26b, para. 3, p. 2 which failed to fulfil obligations under Article 2. 26c, para. A penalty of five hundred to ten thousand BGN is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 7, which becomes § 8. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u91	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. By § 8 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u93	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u94	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u95	Under § 9, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Legal person of the People's Chitalishte, for non-profit purposes for carrying out socially useful activities for the benefit of disabled persons under art. 26a, para. 3, a state or municipal cultural organisation operating in a library, or a special school for training and support of students with sensory disabilities.. damaged hearing or impaired vision, based in the Republic of Bulgaria, which until the entry into force of this law carried out the actions under art. 26b, para. 1 and 4, within three months of its entry into force, submit to the Minister of Culture the notification under art. 26c, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u96	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 9, which becomes § 10. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 11. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and the Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers has been passed in second vote. Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. We move to the next item on the agenda: Report on the implementation of the Law on the Export Control of Products RELATED TO THE RECEIVED, AND OF TECHNOLOGY AND THE DUAL USE TECHNOLOGY IN 2017 BY THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE DEFENSION AND SECURITY OF DELIVERY TO THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL. Dear Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u99	"COMMODITY" on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, No 802-00-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 10 October 2018 examined and discussed the Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Council of the Council of Ministers No 802-00-41. The meeting was attended: by the Council of Ministers "Anyu Angelov" Secretary of the Interdepartmental Council on the Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, and Dimitar Ivanov State Expert; by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Anyu Angelov. In 2017, the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply held 7 meetings at which 106 applications were examined. 58 export and import licences have been issued for defence-related products (PSO); four CSR transport licences between two third countries; 39 certificates for registration of a brokerage activity with CSR between two third countries; 38 certificates for registration and transfer of CSRs, 24 certificates for registration of a brokerage activity with CSR between two third countries; 5 amendments to import, export and transport of CSRs; 6 amendments to certificates for registration of transfer and brokerage activities in CSR. The Interdepartmental Council in 2017: - stopped the operation of 2 licenses for export and import of CSR: Supply and trade "MO" Ltd., gr. Sofia, and Emko "Emko" Ltd, city of Sofia; - stopped the operation of 4 certificates for transfer and registration of PSOs of companies: - stopped the operation of two certificates for registration of brokerage activities with companies: Burgas; - terminate at the request of ET "ЕТА" - Stancho Aderski, Sofia, issued certificate of registration for transfer of SSR; - restore the operation of 2 export and import licenses of companies: - restore the operation of 3 registration certificates for the transfer of companies: "Supporting and trading "MO" Ltd., Sofia, "Emko" Ltd., Sofia, and "Metalika kommers" Ltd., Burgas; - restore the operation of two certificates of registration for brokerage activity with the company CSR of the companies: - postpone to submit additional information making a decision on 5 applications; - examine and accept, for information, 28 applications for changing the circumstances under which export control documents of the SSP have been issued which do not lead to amendments to them; - consider 5 applications to change the circumstances under which export control documents have been issued and issue 11 amendments thereto. The Interdepartmental Council noted an increase in the number of applicants for export control documents as well as the number of documents held by them from 202 pieces at the end of 2007 to 575 pieces at the end of 2017. The number of licensed and registered forms from 191 pieces at the end of 2014 to 243 at the end of 2017. It was assessed as a positive fact that the increase in the number of applications for change of circumstances in which licences were issued was also increased. It is necessary to periodically carry out compliance checks between the requested data when issuing licences and/or registration certificates and the circumstances recorded in the Commercial Register and the Registry Agency. In 2017, the Interdepartmental Council established three interdepartmental committees that examined 35 companies that carried out export, import and transfer of defence-related products. The Interdepartmental Council adopted a draft PID of the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes relating to the implementation of Regulation 1907/2006. People's representative Rumen Gechev raised questions about the calming of the exporting sector and control over the final recipients. After the discussion and the vote with results is closed: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes the National Assembly to take the following ?? RESPONSIBILITY: on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Board of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u101	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take note of what we heard from my colleague Kanev and we discussed the matter yesterday. Of course, we will support what you want, but I would like to draw attention to the following. When we talk about the need for export control of defence products and dual-use products, I would like to say that defence-related products and the export of such products are primarily weapons and ammunition. These weapons and ammunition are designed to kill, they sow death, they cause tension and produce huge refugee flows. I can give you an example of a study by the United Disarmament Council, which says that if the leading manufacturers and arms exporters stop exporting it to the world for one month, there will be no conflict in the hot spots. I say this not because I do not agree, but because Bulgaria is one of the serious exporters of arms for the Middle East region, but not as a state policy, but as a policy of 19 - 20 companies. We discussed yesterday that this brings revenue. It brings revenue to private companies and to those who sell it. It's no secret that last year, in 2017 there were thousands of tons of weapons coming out of Bulgaria that were going to Saudi Arabia, through there to Jordan, to Iraq and found themselves in the hands of radical terrorist groups. So the need for export control is obvious, but we need to keep our eyes open and control this process. If it really were true that there were one billion and two hundred million revenues, we should see hundreds of millions of revenue from the revenue from the budget, and there is no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u102	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. We are voting on the Decision on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal and decision have been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE INTERVIEW COMMISSION ON EXPORT CONTROL AND INDISTINCT DISTRIBUTION OF THE MARITIME DESTRUCTION ARMY TO THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC FOR 2017 Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u103	Colleagues, the report is identical, only it belongs to the Interdepartmental Commission of the Minister of Economy. "COMMODITY" on the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017, No 802-00-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 10 October 2018 examined and discussed the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister; Ivan Penchev Director of the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate. The report was presented by Deputy Minister Borisov. The aim of the report is to provide detailed information related to the responsible and consistent policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of export control of the SSR and dual-use items and technologies, which our country carries out in accordance with the commitments made under multilateral regimes and arrangements in the field of export control, taking into account the sanctions imposed by the Security Council of the United Nations, the European Union and the OSCE. The report also presents the scope of the national system for export control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of the Republic of Bulgaria, including regulations, control bodies and lists of controlled defence-related products and dual-use items. In the first main direction, defence-related products, so-called CSRs, in 2017. The Interdepartmental Commission issued a total of 1096 authorisations. The Report does not include information on authorisations/certificates for temporary and reverse exports/transfers for repair, demonstrations and others. The Interdepartmental Commission has issued 640 authorisations/export certificates and transfers of SPOs from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The total value of the authorisations granted is 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, with most of the exports being made, is for Saudi Arabia, India, the United States and Iraq. In 2017, exports and transfers of SSR to total amount of 1 billion were made. The Commission therefore concludes that 377 import/transfer certificates and import certificates were issued for the territory of the country of the SSO for a total value of 393 million. euros from Serbia, Belarus and Romania. The total value of the imports and transfers on the territory of the country is 247 million. euros, with most of the imports and transfers made, are from Poland, Serbia and Romania. For the period for issuing 162 international certificates for imports of SCOs. In 2017, the Interdepartmental Commission issued 57 authorisations for transit and transport of SDPs through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, 14 authorisations for brokerage transactions with SSOs and 8 authorisations for participation in international trade exhibitions of SSOs. The Commission has refused 13 export authorisations, two import authorisations, two transfer authorisations from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and one authorisation for transit of the CPC. In the second main direction, dual-use items and technologies, the Minister of Economy issued 11 certificates for the registration of export and transfer of dual-use items and 5 certificates of right to carry out brokerage activities with them, for which a public register is maintained. In 2017, exports and transfers of more than 15 million were made within this group of products. Euros. This figure includes exports carried out and export authorisations issued by 2016 in this respect. In 2017, 24 individual export authorisations were granted for a total of 23 million. EUR, with no exports being made on three of them. The total export value of individual authorisations is more than 14 million. Euros. In 2017, an individual authorisation for the transfer of dual-use items and technologies of 1.1 million was granted to the Interdepartmental Commission. Euros. The value of the transfer of dual-use items is nearly 1 million. Euros. 51 import certificates worth more than 383 million were issued. EUR, with the total value of the imports being made above 223 million. EUR, including 9 import certificates issued in 2016 The inter-agency commission in 2017 did not order refusals on applications for export and transfer and no registration of imports of dual-use items and technologies was refused. In 2017, the Interdepartmental Commission did not issue authorisations for transit of dual-use items and technologies and authorisations for brokerage transactions with them. People's representative Rumen Gechev raised the issue of the revenues received from the fees for the licenses and authorisations issued and how much they cover the costs of the labor employed by the employees. After a 15-vote vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed that the National Assembly take the following: ?? RESPONSIBILITY: On the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission for Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-31.u104	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There's no wish to make a statement. I vote on the Decision on the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2017. The decision that has just been read. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposal and the Decision have been adopted, which concludes the work on today's agenda. Regular meeting tomorrow, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
