ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I suggest to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period from 17 to 19 October 2018: 1. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency (IAC) for 2017 (secret) and Project Decision. Importer: Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a classification level under the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Annual report on the activities of the Military Information Service in 2017 (secret) and Project Decision. Importer: Council of Ministers on 13 April 2018. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a classification level under the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency (National Security) for 2017 (confidential) and Project Decision. Importer: Council of Ministers on 13 April 2018. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a level of classification of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4. Annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. Importer: Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018, adopted at first vote on 12 September 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018 The first point for Thursday, 18 October 2018 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2018, adopted at the first vote on 18 July 2018. 8. Second vote on the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. Importer: Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018, adopted at first vote on 26 September 2018. 9. Draft decision to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the field of health. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 October 2018. Point 1 for Friday, 19 October 2018. The vote on the draft decision shall not be less than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 10. Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2018)). Importer: Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on 10 October 2018. Point 2 for Friday, 19 October 2018 11. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation. Importer: Council of Ministers on 25 September 2018 12. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 147 MPs: 127, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on the Film Industry. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. - Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2018)). The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer. - A bill to amend and supplement the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. - A bill to amend and supplement the Insurance Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. - Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2018. 30 June 2018. Importer is the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. - A bill ratifying the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. - Draft decision to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the field of health. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Messages: On 12 October 2018, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 14 of 9 October 2018 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 12/2017 and the special opinions thereto. By its decision, the Constitutional Court shall rule on the request of the Supreme Council of Law and declare the provisions of Article unconstitutional. 247c, para. 1, t. 3 in the part in the cases of art. 94, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, published in the Official Journal. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military ship with its state-owned arms and crew, soldiers from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, outside the territory of the country to participate in joint preparation in the composition of the Permanent NATO Armistice Group in the Black Sea region of the Republic of Bulgaria, in the territorial waters of Romania and the port of Constanta, for the period from 17 February to 9 March 2019 inclusive. The notification was received on 11 October 2018 with entry No 803-09-56 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Honourable Members of the National Assembly in connection with the application of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on points 1 and 2 and 3 of the Programme of Work of the National Assembly for 17 October 2018 I remind you of the following: according to the adopted Programme of these points are provided for consideration and discussion of annual reports on the activities of the State Agency of Intelligence, Office of Military Information and the State Agency of National Security in 2017, which are classified information, with levels of classification. In view of the above and announced upon adoption of the Programme and on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, the meeting in the section for consideration of these points is closed and this is not discussed and voted. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and the other persons involved that the discussions and minutes of the closed meeting are classified information and bind to the respective obligations all Members of the National Assembly and persons who have access to them. The envisaged in art. 50, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly publicity of the acts adopted at closed session will be ensured and the same will be published in the Official Journal. In accordance with the requirements of art. 50, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies, and to suspend the direct broadcast of the media and the Internet, after which the meeting will continue as closed. Please, Quaestors, ensure that the media and outsiders leave. [[Next closed session.]] (After the closed session.) We continue with the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2017 The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is first followed by: the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the report of the Committee on Defence, the Commission on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Media, the report of the Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the report of the Commission on Energy, the report of the Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism, the report of the Commission on Health, the report of the Commission on Environment and Water, the report of the Commission on Agriculture and Food, the report of the Commission on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the report of the Commission on Culture and Media and the report of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sport. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to present the Foreign Policy Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u2	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At a meeting held on 5 September 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 and the Draft Decision on its adoption by the National Assembly. The annual report was presented by Georgi Krastev The discussion was attended by Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security. The annual report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System (prom., SG No. ...). The report consists of three main sections: "Assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria "; "Policies for the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria " and "Basic conclusions on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and guidelines for development. The main objective of the report is to present an objective assessment of the state of national security and the actions of the competent state authorities and structures to address the security risks and threats in 2017, the trends for the development of national security risks and policies taken to address them are outlined. The report contains assessments of foreign policy events globally and regionally. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. The report presents the actions and measures taken by the Bulgarian State to address the risks to national security of a foreign policy nature. A detailed analysis shall be made of the external security environment which, in 2017, retains its complexity and dynamics. The analyses carried out concern the unresolved crises and destabilization processes in the Black Sea region and the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East region, North Africa, the Sahel region, Central and South East Asia and the Western Balkans, as well as the continuing deterioration of relations between the Russian Federation, on the one hand, the European Union and NATO on the other. Bulgaria's role in stabilizing interstate relations and defending the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries is of particular importance. Bulgaria's membership in NATO is a strategic choice and remains one of the main guarantors for our national security. Our country continues to actively participate in the joint efforts of the Member States of the European Union for coherent and effective implementation of policies in international relations. In fulfilling its foreign policy priorities, Bulgaria will continue to develop a professional diplomatic service in order to meet the challenges of the external security environment. In 2017, the foreign policy pursued by the Republic of Bulgaria aims to prevent emerging negative trends and to protect national interests and as a member of NATO and the European Union. Bulgaria continues its active engagement in a multilateral plan for countering terrorism and preventing extremism. During the discussion the MPs discussed the possibilities for drafting legislative initiatives and the measures taken so far to adequately counter the main risks to national security for the Republic of Bulgaria. The Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria was made a recommendation to be submitted for consideration by the National Assembly in an earlier period of the year. The members of the Foreign Policy Committee gave a positive assessment of the report's expertise. The analyses are in line with the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 14 March 2018. On the basis of the discussion held, whereas the Report achieves the main objective of objective awareness of the National Assembly and the public of the results of the security policy carried out, the Foreign Policy Commission with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018 proposed by the National Assembly to adopt by decision the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Next, a report from the Defence Committee. It will be presented by the President of the Commission "General Popov." Before that, honourable Members, allow me to inform you: MPs from the Committee on Budget and Finance of the Macedonian Parliament, led by its President Lilyana Kuzmanovska, as well as the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Macedonia Nazer Ademi, are on the balcony of the plenary. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Please welcome our guests to the Bulgarian Parliament! Here you are, you have the floor, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2017. At its meeting held on 13 September 2018, the Defence Committee discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev, the Head of the Political Office of the Ministry of Defence Iliya Nalbantov, Colonel Orlin Gergov. Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov said the report gives an adequate assessment of the security environment and objectively reflects the state of security policies. With regard to defence, the report remains valid the main conclusion that the Bulgarian armed forces are in a position of difficulty and increased risk to carry out their mission tasks arising from their constitutional duties. The reasons are rooted in the fact that for a long period of time there has been a chronic shortage of funds and there has been a lack of vision to modernize the fighting technique. The problem is the incompetence of the personnel. Since 2016, a change in the situation related to modernisation projects and measures to increase the attractiveness of the military profession has started. The wages of the servicemen are increased, funds are spent in the budget to recruit new servicemen. This trend will continue. This gives reason to predict that the main problems can be overcome within the coming years. Mr. Georgi Krastev stressed that the report was prepared by a working group appointed by order of the Prime Minister. The structure of the updated National Security Strategy follows. There are also new policies that are present for the first time. The report contains three parts: the first assessed the risks and threats to national security; the second reflects the state of the security policies; and the third part sets out the directions and activities for the next period. The report sets aside a place of defence policy. It is harmonised with the report on the state of defence and the armed forces. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Kolyo Milev expressed his opinion that the report looks like a collection of reports of individual departments, is not critical enough and gives the impression of a lack of problems in the various sector policies in the national security system. With the MP Georgi Andreev pointed out that there was no comparative analysis in the report with previous years and that they would refrain from voting. National Representative Boris Vangelov congratulated the team that prepared the report. He underlined that they have developed a very serious, analytical and properly structured document. The report is objective and even in some ways too critical, especially in the defence part. People's representative Vladimir Toshev also expressed support for the report and noted that the report uses diplomatic and sustained language and affects important areas, including cybersecurity. In response to the questions Mr. Krastev pointed out that the report is objective. The aim is to present a general policy rather than reports of individual departments. The overall assessment is that the system is functioning effectively enough, regardless of the difficulties. Explain that including a comparison with previous years is a matter of a methodology that will be discussed in the preparation of subsequent reports. Informs that a strategic security and defence review is being prepared to take place in 2019 and an analysis of the situation of the security sector will be carried out. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, People's Representative Konstantin Popov, also thanked the team for the serious, objective and critical report. He stressed that objectivity and critical approach are beneficial to national security because measures and activities are identified to improve the system's performance. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions delivered, the Defence Committee with 11 votes for the defence committee, without the opposition and 9 votes for the abstention, adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt by decision the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u5	Thank you, dear General Popov. The Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications follows. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u6	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At a meeting held on 27 September 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, adviser to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister and Secretary of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Svetoslav Daskalov, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, Captain I rank Ivo Hasakiev, Deputy Director of the Office of Military Information, Major General Dancho Dyakov, Head of the National Security Service, and Mr. Ivan Pavlov, Vice-President of the State Commission on Information Security. On behalf of the importer, the Annual Report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The representatives of the structures and bodies of the sector "Secrets" presented in summary data from the Report on their activities in respect of the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report shall be drawn up in accordance with art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and follows the structure of the updated by the National Assembly in March 2018. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report reflects the main results of the activities of the security services in relation to the protection of national security, which comply with the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. In 2017, the external security environment maintained its complexity and dynamics, with global processes continuing to catalyze manifestations of ethnic, religious and political extremism. Terrorism has remained a major threat to democratic countries. Unsolved crises of geopolitical importance, destabilization processes in the Black Sea region and the Eastern Mediterranean, crises in the Middle East region, North Africa, the Sahel region, Central and Southeast Asia and the Western Balkans were the main generator of instability, political, economic and asymmetric risks and threats to the country. The Republic of Bulgaria has continued its active commitment to international efforts related to countering terrorism and preventing violent extremism. In this regard, the current Bulgarian legislation has been brought to a high level of compliance with international standards in the field of preventing and combating terrorism, including the standards and requirements of UN conventions and resolutions of the Security Council. The structures of the National Security Protection System have made detailed preparations for the implementation of the commitments of the security and public order services within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. To counter foreign special services, a wide toolbox has been applied in direct cooperation with allied and partner services. Security services have worked in continuous mode of timely notification between the allies on various issues and conduct operations to achieve shared results. The higher authorities of the state are constantly informed about the interests, actions and attempts of foreign special services against Bulgaria. The management of the security system based on the adopted laws has begun to give positive results, expressed mainly in the coordination of the work of the security services and increasing their effectiveness with limited financial resources. Security services have continued to face difficulties in terms of their financial security, which is related to solving problems with the personnel deficit, personnel development, professional qualifications and material and technical security. The activities of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers focused mainly on providing capabilities and mechanisms for timely response to crisis situations, as well as on preparing a project to update the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The National System for the Protection of Classified Information has implemented in full the necessary measures to prevent, detect, minimize and eliminate risks to the security of information. In response to changes in the security environment during the reporting period, the level of protection of classified information on individual types of security has increased. Deficiency and violations have been identified that have not resulted in damage to national security and interests. During the discussion, the members of the Commission assessed the report as objective and giving a real assessment of the state of national security. Mr. Slavcho Velkov pointed out that during the preparation of the report the comments made by him were taken into account when examining the State of National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, supported by the members of the Commission, noted that cybersecurity, hybrid wars, information manipulations and disinformation are the main challenges and threats in the field of our national security. In this regard, and as priority objectives in the field of national security assurance, he pointed out that the evaluations, analyses and conclusions made were not sufficiently reflected in the report. Regarding external security, Mr. Tsvetanov said that unexpectedly for him there were no major countries financing terrorism and involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the Report. After the discussion and vote, the Commission, with 4 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, with no objection to the Council of Ministers, proposed to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2017, No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. My fellow Members, before we proceed with the reports, I will give thirty minutes of rest. Before that, I will read you a message. In the holiday will be opened the exhibition "Most among the cultures" presenting new approaches to the communication of young people from different ethnic cultural and religious communities. It is implemented with the support of the municipality of Stara Zagora and the city of The Hague. All MPs are invited to the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u8	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. Mrs. Angelova, come in, you have the floor. Please, the Quaestors insist on inviting the MPs into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 19 September 2018, examined and discussed the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. In his exhibition he noted that the submission of the Annual Report on the State of National Security is in implementation of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report contains information, analysis and assessment of the risks, dangers and threats for implementing an effective policy to protect our national security. The annual report on the state of national security in 2017 is essential for informing public institutions and civil society organisations in other countries as well as NATO, the European Union and international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The internal and external processes, which have a significant impact on national security, have been analysed and conclusions have been drawn on the state and the main guidelines for its development. In the matter of the scope of the competences of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is information on certain aspects of social security. In the first section of the Department of Risk Assessment, Hazards and Threats for the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria, there are summarised findings on the factors with a long-term negative impact on social security. In 2017 the population in Bulgaria continued to decline. According to NSI data, as of 31 December 2017, the population of Bulgaria is 7 million 50 000 and 34 people, representing 1.4% of the population of the European Union. Compared to 2016, the country's population decreased by 51,000 825 or by 0.7%. The report stresses that the demographic crisis leads to significant regional economic imbalances. As a result, the territorial distribution of the population is uneven, which has an adverse impact on the economic development of the country. The mobility of the population is increased, which leads to multi-spectrum problems in social role relations.. Economic, labor, professional, family and others. Age dependence continues to increase. As of 31 December 2017, the total age-related ratio was 54.5% or of each dependent person under 15 and over 65 years of age, less than two active adults were found. For comparison, in 2005 and 2016, this coefficient was 44,5% and 53,4% respectively. The demographic replacement factor, which shows the ratio between the number of working age and the number of working age, shows an alarming trend in reducing the reproduction of the working population. As of 31 December 2017, this ratio was 64%. For comparison, 2001. 100 people coming from a working age were replaced by 124 young people. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. In 2017, the active labour market policy was prioritised to the target group of: unemployed young people aged 29 years, with a sub-group of up to 25 years of age who are neither trained nor employed; unemployed over 50 years of age; long-term unemployed people with low qualifications and lack of key competences; people with disabilities; inactive persons willing to work, including discouraged persons. As a result of the overall activity of the Employment Agency, nearly 237 thousand unemployed begin work, of which there are over 208 thousand on the primary market. Total of programmes and measures for training and employment, adult training under the National Employment Action Plan, the employment of 28 thousand 264 persons was ensured on 31 December 2017, 16 thousand 929 persons were included in new employment and 10 thousand 925 unemployed. The projects financed under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and 14 796 unemployed persons are included in employment and 24 thousand 852 are included in training. The third section outlines policy guidelines in the following areas: increasing the quality of the workforce; limiting unemployment and involvement in employment of representatives of the unequal groups in the labour market; developing social dialogue; continuing implementation of the reform of the pension system and ensuring its financial sustainability; improving the quality and effectiveness of control of compliance with labour law; accelerating the process of deinstitutionalisation in specialized institutions for elderly people with disabilities; improving the situation of Roma. Particular attention is paid to the need to implement an integrated approach and cross-sectoral cooperation in order to achieve the objectives of the updated Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030. After the end of the discussion and a vote with a result of 12 votes, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u11	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At its regular meeting held on 12 September 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the submitted by the Council of Ministers, No 802-00-39, on 20 July 2018. Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 was presented by Georgi Krastev an adviser to the political council of the Prime Minister and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. In his exhibition he noted that the submission of the Annual Report on the State of National Security is in implementation of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report contains information, analysis and assessment of the risks, dangers and threats for the implementation of an effective policy of our national security in 2017. It is essential to inform public institutions and civil society organizations in other countries as well as NATO, European Union and international organisations about the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The internal and external processes, which have a significant impact on national security, have been analysed and conclusions have been drawn on the state and the main guidelines for its development. The report contains an assessment of the risks and threats to national security in the field of the financial and economic system, external security environment, security in the field of energy, education, migration and refugee aspects of national security. The policies for the protection of national security are also analyzed, reflecting those in the field of justice and internal order, defence, cybersecurity, countering corruption, migration and refugee aspects and their impact on national security. The report sets out a significant space for analysis and recommendations in terms of internal order and security. It is said that no specific data for planned and prepared acts against Bulgarian sites or foreign objects in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria were received in 2017. The country's active participation in the world anti-terrorism coalition and the establishment of an organization to implement and comply with the measures developed in the National Counterterrorism Plan is reported. Despite the significant reduction in migratory pressure and after closing the Balkan route of the migration flow in 2017, our country hosts a number of joint operations of FRONTEX and carries out an exchange of information with the National Coordination Centres of the EU Member States. Projects are being implemented to receive financial assistance under the European Union Programme "Europe 2020" and "Hercules III" of the European Union. The construction of an obstruction-type facility has been completed for attempts to enter the territory of our country with a total length of 235 thousand 613 meters with an adjoining road along the land area. In 2017, a total of 195 pre-trial proceedings were initiated by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior for the illegal transfer of persons across the border and for the support of illegal residence in the country. The report takes into account good coordination and cooperation between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Agency, the State Agency of National Security and the Prosecution and partner services in the field of combating smuggling, as well as in the protection of internal fiscal interests, which have been taken up by Europol as a priority of the European Union. Active activity was carried out in preparation of a new Law on measures against money laundering adopted at the beginning of 2018, aimed at preventing money laundering, financing terrorism, combating corruption, increasing capacity and analyzing and exchange of information. In anti-trafficking operations of cultural and historical values was thwarted exports of objects of high cultural and historical value. Four cross-border channels for trafficking of cultural and historical values have been crossed. A new Law on Private Security has also been adopted, and amendments have been made in the Ministry of Interior Act to extend the powers of persons working in employment with whom they cannot carry out security of sites and/or crossings in the area of a protected by the Ministry of Interior, assistance in monitoring the state border and activities in the area of territorial service of the population. The National Council on Crime Prevention in the reporting period has developed and implemented measures to counter and prevent conventional crime aimed at the most vulnerable populations. There is also the new preventive program "Children's Police Stations" and 4,000 children are trained in three modules. Special attention is also paid to police presence in areas with high concentration of crime and small and medium-sized settlements. A total of 1342 employees were appointed in 2017. The priorities of the Ministry of Interior in 2018, such as: border security; increasing capabilities for countering terrorism and radicalisation; countering crime; increasing the effectiveness of preventive activities carried out by the police authorities of the Ministry of Interior; international cooperation and integrity in the fight against the risks and threats to our national security. People's representatives Krasimir Yankov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. Mr. Iankov suggested that events related to elements of radicalisation in society be reflected and analyzed in the Report. Mr. Tsvetanov summarized that the adoption of a legal text with an obligation to submit a report on the state of national security for discussion and adoption by the National Assembly is extremely important for our national security. This report cannot detail the topics in the portfolios for the implementation of relevant policies. He underlined that the risks and threats to national security, good practices such as the fight against smuggling, as well as factors that pose risks to our national security and generate crime on the territory of the country are outlined in a general review. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Bulgaria in 2017, together with Draft Decision No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Next, a report from the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, come on in. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u13	Madam President, honourable Members ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 20 September 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council; Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Rosen Simidchiev, Deputy Minister. The annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The chapter "Energy Security" presents the risks and potential threats to the energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The risk to national security in the sector............................................................................................. is conditional on the country's dependence on one natural gas supplier. Local natural gas production for 2017 according to preliminary data provides only 2.41% of the total natural gas consumption in the country. In the last three years, significant progress has been seen in the realization of interconnection projects with neighbouring countries, and in 2016 the interconnector Bulgaria was put into operation - Romania - which basically provides the supply of natural gas in a direction from Bulgaria to Romania. In order to ensure reverse capacity, it is necessary for the Romanian side to build the necessary infrastructure and the activities are planned for 2019. Guaranteeing the security of energy supply through diversification of sources and routes is a key priority for Bulgaria and the European Union. Bulgaria is an integral part of the development of the Southern Gas Corridor through its interconnectors projects with Greece and Turkey. In order to increase energy security and to transform Bulgaria into a significant regional energy centre, the initiatives for energy corridors south-north, north-west, the implementation of the project for gas distribution center "Balkan" as well as the continuation of the processes of exploration and extraction of energy raw materials from own holdings. A negative factor for the energy system remains the unresolved still issue related to the tariff deficit generated in the past. The accumulated price deficit is the most significant in the public electricity supplier National electricity company, assessed in the World Bank report at BGN 1.9 billion. at the end of 2015. The accumulation of a new deficit has been halted as a result of the legislative, regulatory and management actions taken in the period 2015 to limit the costs of the public provider and to provide additional funds in the system with the creation of the Energy System Security Fund. The risk represents the increased emergency in the thermal networks of the heating companies due to the insufficient investment for their rehabilitation and modernisation, as well as the large debt of the thermal companies to the "Bulgargaz" EAD. It is characteristic of the heating companies that due to the specific nature of their activity they consume significant amounts of natural gas during the autumn-winter period and do not fully pay their obligations within the agreed deadlines. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov commented that the report should reflect the need for a second gas repository in the country, as well as to propose measures to accelerate the procedures for concessions in terms of gas demand, because the own extraction represents the greatest security for the state. In conclusion, Mr. Georgi Krastev noted that the recommendations made will be taken into account in the preparation of the next reports. After the discussion the Energy Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria took place with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 7 votes, supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for adoption of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is next. Is there a representative of this committee? Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva. Then follows the Report of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u15	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At its regular meeting held on 10 October 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, which was presented by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers. The report consists of three sections "Sensure of the risks, dangers and threats to national security", "Policies for the protection of national security" and "Basic conclusions on the state of national security", and economic security is affected in each of them. The main macroeconomic indicators are analyzed: the increase of the euro against the dollar and the increase of the prices of the main raw materials that led to the deterioration of the trading conditions; conclusions were made for a forwarding increase in imports and hence an increased trade deficit compared to 2016; the impact on our economy of foreign tourists, the continued ban of the Russian Federation on imports of certain products, Brexit, foreign direct investment; an interest was retained in the products of the Bulgarian arms industry and dual-use products, despite the famous decline in requests and attempts of foreign producers to discredit the Bulgarian producers. In the course of the discussion, the people's representative from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria "Roumen Gechev" said that there are no policies in the report as a whole, there are no wrong conclusions, there are no specific solutions, and the problems are marked without analysis. In response Mr. Krastev stressed that it could be considered strengthening the analytical part of the report and possible references to the more detailed sectoral reports. After the presentation and discussion of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:....................... 11............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u16	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. With the Report of the Committee on Education and Science, you will be the one to brief us. Here you go. Then a report from the Committee on Health follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2018, the Education and Science Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science The annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The report was adopted by Decision No 518 of the Council of Ministers of 20 July 2018. It is in line with the priorities, the structure and the main guidelines for national security work. It consists of three sections. The first is a description of the state of national security in the individual thematic areas, the second gives the security policies and the third gives the main conclusions and guidelines for work in a short period. The topic of education is included in the general section on social security. According to the importer, the report is critical and presents problems in their entirety. Mr. Krastev emphasized the extreme importance of the discussions in the committees of the National Assembly, as well as in plenary in the development of the Annual Report. On behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva took part, who stressed that the report focused mainly on the policy of the Ministry for return and registration for the first time at school of children from vulnerable groups. In the past year 24,000 children were brought back to class, some of them were enrolled for the first time at school, with 2,000 of these students dropping out again. The work of the teams continues. The main focus is the children who have dropped out and dropped out again. Two new major projects under the Operational Programme are expected to start working on Science and education for smart growth. One is aimed specifically at kindergartens, its value is 82 million. lv. The other one is aimed at all schools, it is worth 130 million. lv. They provide means for interest activities, for further study of Bulgarian language, art and sport. National Representative Tanya Petrova drew attention to the insufficient development in the report on the topic of higher education, to which Mr. Krastev replied that the remark will be taken into account in subsequent reports. People's representative Errol Mehmed raised questions about who and what are the identified problems for the children of foreigners, especially refugees, when they are included in the Bulgarian education system. Mrs. Sacheva answered the question. She noted that the main problem is mobility and the fact that these children do not actually stay in the territory of the country. Secondly is the problem for the Bulgarian language and the possibility to teach them in the Bulgarian education system. Another problem is the lack of prepared people to work with these children, to know their culture, their cultural attitudes, religious and other differences respectively. There is also a problem with parents from both the parents refugees and migrants and the parents who are of Bulgarian origin. After a vote with results: the National Assembly proposed to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Maleshkova. The report of the Committee on Health follows. He will be presented by Mr. Alexander Ivanov. Here you go. Then we will hear the report from the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! I will present to your attention the report of the Committee on Health. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2018, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; representatives of the word and patient organizations in the field of health. The annual report on the state of national security shall be submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report contains information and assessments about internal political events, processes of implementation of international projects, as well as events in conflict areas. Mr. Georgi Krastev presented the Annual Report on the State of National Security on the basis of Decision No 518 of 20 July 2018 of the Council of Ministers. The report follows the structure and priorities of the updated National Security Strategy from 2018. The two thousand and seventeenth year is characterised by sustainability of the risks and threats to national security in the healthcare system. The report found that the so-functioning health system still does not allow to achieve the desired efficiency and efficiency of the increase in the budget for the sector. The dispute and annulment of a number of regulations and the initiation of the process of the development of the repealed laws and regulations leads to the maintenance of a continuous state of instability and in itself forms risks to national security. The potential for the spread of high-risk viral and contagious diseases, as determined by the progressive increase in the relative share of the population with low domestic and health culture, as well as by the refusal of individual social groups of compulsory immunisation, has increased. For another year, the report marks the CAD crisis in the system. The problem of medical staff is deepening, with many nurses leaving the country for better pay abroad. A chronic problem is also the deteriorating financial situation of state and municipal hospitals, as well as the regular tide of qualified personnel to private, including foreign clinics. The Health Policy Section focuses on the projects and programmes that are adopted and implemented, as well as on the various health policies. Particular attention shall be paid to the provision of information and health advisory services for a healthy lifestyle, to prevent drug abuse, tobacco and alcohol, to the risks of the social and material environment in which young people live and are socialised. In the course of the discussion, it was noted that the report did not address the problem of transfusion haematology, high-tech methods in medicine, organ transplantation and cell transplantation. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: for. 12, there are no abstentions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At a meeting held on 20 September 2018, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Decision adopting the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 shall be proposed for adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; Mrs. Ganya Hristova, Director of the Directorate of Environment Policy and Mr. Zaharin Panov, Minister of Information Security in the Ministry of Environment and Water. Mr. Georgi Krastev presented the Annual Report on National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. He pointed out that the topic of security from the competences of the Commission on Environment and Water is permanently present in the section "Secure in the relations of man. Mr. Krastev noted the importance of the discussions in the specialized committees of the National Assembly, giving clear guidance on the accents to be highlighted and the gaps to be resolved. He also noted that as a whole the report in the environmental and security sector in the human nature relations does not contain any findings of crisis events during the period considered. The report thus acquires the character of a routine document, but, on the other hand, gives an idea of the assessments, the state of security, the related policies and the immediate tasks. Mr. Krastev noted that the reports drawn up so far and those in the coming periods will create a basis for a better study of national security and policy planning in different areas. On the part of the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mrs. Ganya Hristova added that the topic "Man " is present in the sector of the Environment and Waters and themes related to dangerous substances and abnormal pollution of air, water and soil as a result of production activity. The consequences of climate change, flood threats, as well as threats of lying and unfit pesticides are also mentioned. Mrs. Hristova stressed the key importance of the second section, which gives policies to each of the relevant sectors, in this case for the Environment sector. It presents the activities of the MOEW on the control activities carried out, measures related to abnormal levels of particulate matter in the ambient air, as well as optimization of water management and monitoring networks. The preventive activity and the management of flood risk as well as the completion of regional waste management systems are also included. She also pointed out that the topics related to critical infrastructure and flood and landslide security activities are reflected in each of the sections that builds on the information from the two previous reports. Mrs. Hristova noted that the direction of the environmental policy for a sustainable economy and the efficient use of resources, the balance between environmental objectives and social requirements, as well as the lack of threats through prevention and control is given in Section 3. People's representative Rumen Georgiev pointed out that all topics related to the elements of the environment are affected, but no information is available on specific regions and municipalities related to excess particulate content and problems in the sector. He raised a question about the possibility of including them in the report. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva explained that the report will reflect comments and opinions of the MPs, and the comments submitted by them will be taken into account. She also pointed out that the topic of air quality has a commitment to the Commission to present the World Bank and the Ministry of Environment and Water National Programme after its finalisation. Ms. Vasileva added that more detailed information can be provided by the Ministry regarding the criminal procedure. Mr. Krastev, in response to Mr. Georgiev, pointed out that the proposal will be taken into account in the discussion of the next report. Mrs. Hristova added that this is the 2017 Report and it includes the measures implemented by 2017 and the financing of measures for 11 municipalities. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva thanked for the presentation and expressed satisfaction that the issues related to human relations and environmental issues related to climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy have been affected in the report and more and more closely in the years to come. She pointed out that this is an important element of the protection of National Security, identification of risks and taking measures to deal with them. After the vote was taken: 13 for, against, there are no abstentions, 4 the Environment and Water Commission supported the draft decision and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision for adoption of the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u22	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Who will present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, Mrs. Taneva? Here you are, Mrs. Dimova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 19 September 2018, discussing the quoted report. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers; and Mr. Vasil Rizov, Director of the Security Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The report was presented by Georgi Krastev, who noted that the recommendations made by the MPs in the previous discussions were taken into account in its preparation. In the part concerning agriculture and forests, the report presents key findings on the situation in the sector, the existing risks, the activities carried out and the measures taken. The role of agriculture is highlighted to ensure a sufficient amount of products and food for the population and food safety along the food chain. The steady development of the agricultural sector has been noted. An annual growth is indicated on the basis of the physical volume of production. An increase in the volume of processed raw milk and milk products produced shows that the dairy sector gradually overcomes the effects of the severe crisis in 2015 and 2016. It was found that the good manufacturing results of the main sub-sectors of agriculture ensure the lack of significant risks to the food security of the country. Particular attention is paid to the danger and damage of forest fires. It has been reported that for 2017 the burned forest areas and direct damage from forest fires are far below the average annual indicators in recent years, thanks to the preventive activity and the financial resources for specialized equipment, training and creation of voluntary formations. The risks to the health of the population and to environmental and economic security related to the use and distribution of non-licensed and banned plant protection preparations in the European Union are noted. As a sustainable negative factor for the development of the entire agricultural sector, illegal practices remain in the absorption of national and European subsidies. An acute epizootic situation has been highlighted during the period, resulting in direct damage from the loss of production, compensation costs and limiting the access of the Bulgarian producer to traditional markets. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Rumen Georgiev said that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will refrain from supporting the report because there is no overall policy for the development of the sector and for ensuring the food security of the country. Remember the problem with the double standard of food. Notes that despite the significant financial resources invested, no results of support for farmers were noticed and gave an example of the large volume of foreign agricultural products on the market. In view of the risk to national security, which represents the spread of infectious diseases, proposed that the National Programme for Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases in Bulgaria be subject to consideration in plenary. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the report appears to be formal in relation to the sector of............................................................................................... They recommended in the future that the report contain more information on the identified and taken measures to address existing risks and that the analysis of individual sectoral policies be presented through the prism of national security. In conclusion, Georgi Krastev noted that the recommendations made will be taken into account in the preparation of the next reports. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018, supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the adoption of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u25	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 12 September 2018, a Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018, hereinafter referred to as The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev and Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Ministers of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Hristo Hristov Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Georgi Krastev Advisor to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The report was presented by Mr. Krastev. In the exhibition it was noted that the submission of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 is in implementation of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report contains information, analysis and assessments of the risks, dangers and threats for implementing an effective policy to protect our national security. Mr. Krastev drew attention to the security policies in the sectors of Transport and Communications. He pointed out that in 2017 the coordination of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, executive agencies, state-owned enterprises and commercial companies from the transport and disaster prevention and response system, terrorist acts and incidents has continued to be improved. At the end of 2017, an update was made on the Plan of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to counter terrorism, and it is due to be established by the end of this year. In 2017, the plans of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications were developed and validated to get ready to work in military time and to support the host country of NATO forces. The NATO civil preparedness questionnaire responses were prepared to review defence planning capabilities based on the initial criteria for assessing the fulfilment of the basic sustainability criteria. Mr. Krastev noted that measures are being taken to prevent traffic accidents by installing video surveillance systems on loaded sections, city intersections, railway crossings and others. The report states that in 2017 the work on improving the activities of Search and Rescue and bringing it into line with international treaties and standards for the protection of human life as well as the establishment and maintenance of an organisation, the material and technical base and the provision of resources for carrying out search and rescue operations was continued. A special place is also dedicated to cybersecurity issues. Part of the competence of the State Agency is related to one of the three pillars of cybersecurity. Last year at the National Center for Reaction to Information Security Accidents at the State Agency "E-Management" 1951 signals were received and 1491 incidents were recorded. All registered incidents are solved. Instructions in the form of advice, recommendations and warnings shall be published regularly on the Network and Information Security Portal. A monthly newsletter shall be sent to public administration officials responsible for network and information security, where there are incident statistics for the month and information on good practices in network and information security. After the presentation of the Report and the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria and 8 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on National Status the security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. A Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Amelia Gesheva On behalf of the importer, the Annual Report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 contains information and assessments about domestic political events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict areas in other countries. Its main objective is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, dangers and threats, of the effectiveness and efficiency of a national security policy last year, as well as of the actions the state institutions plan to take. The structure of the Annual Report is consistent with the structure of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was adopted by the National Assembly in March 2018. It is divided into three sections, and the first is given the security environment, in the second security policies and in the third are the main guidelines for short-term work. Disinformation, propaganda campaigns, the use of social networks to launch misleading information, spreading false and manipulative statements are the main means of forming public opinion. In the previous year, as part of the informational impact on public opinion, some countries continued to use cyber attacks to solve ideological, political and economic tasks in favour of their own interests. The risks, dangers and threats to national security related to cultural heritage concern its physical conservation. In recent years the territory of Bulgaria has been part of the European chain for smuggling and trade in cultural and historical values. The most widespread crimes against cultural and historical heritage are: possession of unregistered objects representing cultural and historical values; illegal archaeological excavations; illegal transactions with cultural and historical values and thefts from church temples, museums and private homes of icons, church otters, archaeological movable monuments of culture, paintings, etc. Cultural and historical values are one of the main sources of illegally generated financial resources. The Ministry of Culture is closely interacting with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office in the fight against illegal attacks against cultural values and the preservation of cultural heritage, but remains seriously difficult due to the wide scope of the national cultural heritage protection system and the lack of effective mechanisms for interaction. It is necessary to increase the capacity and activity of the state authorities with regard to the conservation, maintenance, study and promotion of the Bulgarian cultural heritage, which has remained outside the territorial boundaries of the country. The measures to increase national security through the effective protection of cultural heritage include: increasing the capacity of the authorities involved in the preservation of cultural heritage; digitalization of movable and immovable cultural heritage; development of the cultural heritage conservation system in the event of disaster or armed conflict on the basis of art. 5 of the Cultural Heritage Act relating to the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Values in the event of armed conflict. The report highlights that in order to reduce the risk to cultural heritage, a regulation should be adopted urgently between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in Natural Disasters and Armed Conflicts, as well as on the basis of the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Values in the event of an armed conflict. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Culture and Media with 16 votes for the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria, without the opposition and 1 abstention, proposed that the National Assembly accept the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. Report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports At its meeting held on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. The report was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and was presented by the Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers Mr. Georgi Krastev. In his presentation he stressed that the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria is essential for informing public institutions and civil society organizations, as well as NATO, European Union and international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The internal and external processes have been analysed, which have a significant impact on national security and conclusions have been drawn on the state and the main guidelines for its development. The structure of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 is consistent with the updated by the National Assembly in March 2018. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. In its statement in the part which falls within the Commission's competence, the importer focuses on the work of the Ministry of Youth and Sport, which is oriented towards validating European values through sport. The role of the National System of Physical Education and Sports and its policy sub-targets is highlighted as follows: - policies for young people; - policies in the field of sport for students and sports in leisure; - policies in the field of sport for excellence; - policies for bringing sports objects and facilities into a form that conforms to modern international standards; - policies in the field of the absorption and implementation of good international practices in the field of sport. Particular attention is paid to the measures related to the prevention of youth crime and the main problems regarding emigration, birth rate and demographic collapse. The active work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on the implementation of the National Youth Programme 2016 - 2020 is analyzed, focusing on improving the quality of life and realization of young people by applying sustainable mechanisms for investing in youth. The activities are presented and the main priorities in the Ministry's Programme regarding the use of doping in its fight against anti-social events related to sports competitions, disclosure and prevention of attempts to settle results of sports meetings, which are considered to be one of the biggest threats to modern sports. Based on conclusions drawn, the perspectives and challenges to national security are outlined. On the basis of the vote held with 9 votes for the European Parliament, without a vote against the European Parliament and 7 votes, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Colleagues, I am opening the debates on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. [[Noise and lines.]] If you have a report, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 20 September 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802 00-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2018. Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the report and the draft decision took part in the Commission meeting. The report shall be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The structure of the report is in line with the structure of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly in March 2018. The report presents assessments of the risks, hazards and threats to the effectiveness and effectiveness of national security policies and the actions taken by state institutions to address security threats. Analyses are presented on the trends for the development of national security risks and the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period to deal with them. The report contains assessments of domestic political and foreign policy events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict zones outside the country's borders. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests, presenting the activities in sectoral policies to counter the risks and threats to national security. The main tasks in the implementation of the adopted regulations and strategic acts are outlined as well as accompanying measures to counter threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the National Assembly drew attention to the fact that the structure and content of the Regional Development Report have been significantly improved and the views and positions expressed in the discussions in the Commission of the previous national security report of the Republic of Bulgaria are taken into account, but there are also some activities which, according to the participants, in the preparation of the following reports should be dropped. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 1 vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 802-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. We can now move on to speeches. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, honourable Members. Mr. Velkov, you go first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u33	I'm first, Mr. Chairman, at your request. Thank you. My fellow Members, I would like this speech to wake us up, as the current discussion of the National Security Status Report is a sleepy job. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, the same goes for us, my fellow Member, yes, for my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u34	Go ahead, so you can finish the trial you started, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u35	Honourable Members, the heads of state agencies, the security services are present here quite patiently for hours [[noise and lines]] ... Mr. Chairman, could you tell this long-time guy to cut his...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u36	Mr. Velkov, don't do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u37	Where are your representatives? Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u38	Well, I didn't say midget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u39	Mr. Velkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u40	Please take the part, Mr. Chairman, please! We believe that the respected Dr. Krastev, who is mentioned ten times in the reports, is responsible for the report and for all its dimensions. I imagine what it must have been like for ten Commission meetings to present the report that he is the compiler of this report, which is not in fact true. In the reports we are talking about a security dimension, about agricultural security in the Committee on Agriculture, in the Committee on Culture and Media, in the Economics, in the Energy sector, but you did not see at least one Deputy Minister responsible for these activities to be present as if the heads of the special services were obliged to answer the questions, or to listen to questions about youth and sport and agriculture. I will begin with this, Mr. Chairman, on the dimensions of security and on the report, of course. I would like to say in advance that I will refrain from voting on the Report not because it does not reflect the real state, on the contrary, a lot of work has been done, unfortunately, by a small team, but it does not fully reflect the state of national security in the Republic of Bulgaria in those aspects which have been set out here in the reports. Perhaps, Dr. Krastev, the structure of the report should be in line with the existence of the various committees. What do I mean? Once we made an offer to enter the security of transport.......................................... to enter civil security............................................. We're talking cybersecurity, we're reading successes this year, and we're adopting a cybersecurity bill. Then why do we need it? I will draw attention to some aspects, of course. First of all, it is a section of the Defense Department without having any claim to assess the state of defence and the armed forces, but as far as I am a member of the Defence Commission, I would like to draw attention to a kind of armed forces we call the Navy, to those problems that exist there, and to wonder to these men.... under what they serve in this kind of armed forces. I see here my colleague is nodding. He and I were in the Navy, and I want to tell you this: these men and women meet their declared abilities, do their jobs, and it's just to wonder what motivation they have. I think it's mainly because of the tradition of shipping. We've visited several ships, I'm telling you about the allegations in the Report. One ship is all iron, and it's the toughest ship of this class in the Navy in the world. He was put on water in 1943. Many of you were not born, including me, in 1944 it was sunk, in 1947 it was removed, repaired and served faithfully to Italy, and in 2006 it was given to Bulgaria. Now on this ship with more than 78 years of history, Bulgarian sailors serve. I say this for a reason because the ship has the most modern diving equipment in Europe and they work with a diving bell at 120 meters deep. To get out of this state they come out and fall immediately into the barocamera boys and girls for a miracle and fairy tale. At the same time, colleagues, at the Varna High Naval School, there is a training system for military sailors, to which they can envy all naval academies in the world, including the one in Annapolis. There's a developed cabinet there. It was seen by colleagues for space research, which in real time shows you what you want a nuclear submarine on a dock, in a port at any point in the world. It's a very high level, from 14 countries going to train there. After all this perfect training falls into a material base where they are held only by tradition and high patriotism. I say it for nothing else, I say it with pain, because the state of some types of armed forces, as part of the Report.............................. you are an officer, and you will understand that they do not meet the declared abilities but the requirements for the development of the modern armed forces. I'm going a little further to the division of the Report. We have already mentioned the Transport Commission Report, and there is no section on Transport Security. 10 days ago a European Union Report came out and here is the finding: Bulgaria is the last one on road safety. Quoted: From January to September 24 children were killed on the roads. We are champions of child mortality on the road, and at the same time we report successes in road safety. What about the state of critical road infrastructure?! Deadly traps, like Svoge, are ticking across the country. If not elsewhere, some of you have traveled to the sea. From 70 to 150 km on the highway, I won't tell you what the road is. If it was Uti Bachvarov, he'd say it's like a noodle or like a ball and a half of excitement. I just come back to say: Bulgaria is the only maritime country in the European Union that does not have a rescue ship to go out in an excitement over two proms at sea and to seek and save people. There is an exception to this warship, which has quite other tasks. To cybersecurity, in two words. I think there's only intent in the report. Maybe the Bill and I can work this out. Here we have heard a conclusion in the report, and I quote: 'Sustainability of health risks and threats'. I would like to draw attention to that aspect of national security that we call social security, respectively health security of the nation. Just a few data from Eurostat and real data from our sweet reality: To the time reported in the Report, the accumulated debts of state and municipal hospitals to suppliers are 509 million leva.. notice, half a billion and above! Acquired debts of the National Health Insurance Fund to Bulgarian hospitals " 123 million." lv. Debts to foreign hospitals about 259 million by yesterday's date. Total overcost of 270 million lv. in the hospital budget of the NHIF. The Bank's total deficit is 466 million. BGN, and the total deficit of the health system is 1 billion. Two hundred and fifty-five million. And we make a statement in an official report of the Commission that there is evidence of sustainability of the risks and threats in the field of health?! What kind of conclusion is that when more than one third of the total budget is deficit! I would like to say two words about demographic security again from the European Union Report: What does that mean? It means that every 10 born children die 5 from above, so the nation goes to a demographic disaster! For agrarian security. Where's the ethno-religious security section? This is where we talk all the time and agree with our colleagues from the United Patriarchs about the threat of radicalisation, the threat of groups who have emissaries here and radicalize the Bulgarian population. In the National Security Status Report, we are not talking about ethno-religious security! Here we have heard great words: National Plan for Countering Terrorism, Homeland Security and Public Order, I do not see here at least a Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Interior. I asked the Commission Mr. Georgiev, I think he's here, I'll tell you because the matter is not closed. I asked him, even though he's irrelevant. You remember that last year the spokesperson of the Prosecutor General's Office came out with a scary message that in Bulgaria was captured a high-ranking, but truly high-ranking, commander of the General Prosecutor's Office, who had a pass for movement in all areas of action, etc. I asked Mr. Georgiev if he was detained, isn't that a risk to his brothers and sisters, to his superiors and if something bad will happen to us? Turns out he's been released! So where did the high-ranking commander from the Islamic State go and that he is in the territory of Bulgaria? It turned out that it was not a threat, that is, in a sense, a PR action, but in the field of security, the PR player is losing, and it does not bring dividends! And with regard to regional security, we do not see any serious conclusions either. The intention, which is already taking place, I give for example the Smolyan district of Mayors to release mayors, to deprive small villages of the possibility of control and police presence, will do nothing good! In this regard, honourable Members, I would like to tell you that I will abstain without calling on my fellow Members. We have discussed the issue of a parliamentary group. I'm also looking forward to their comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honored guests, honourable Members of the House! My procedure is for you in two directions. Firstly, I ask that a remark be made to the Defence Committee with a view to holding the meetings that are obviously very useful and have a great cognitive effect, but I do not think that we should be listening to a description of what was seen at the hearing held throughout the day. [[Laughter, excitement, single applause and shouts "Bravo" by GERB.]] And it seems to me that some of the facts and circumstances are classified, that is, classified information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u43	Is that some kind of envy?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u44	There is certainly envy, because I have not done a single hearing in four years of Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u45	You don't have a sea school.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u46	And following that logic, I have violated the legal certainty of both the National Assembly and the Republic. The other is for military education. You have military education and experience. My request is, however, that we do not share such detailed and detailed topics and problems with our military service. I appeal to the speaker's concentration. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov. Don't tell me memories, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u48	No, no, you won't. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I won't even tell you Armenian jokes. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take note of this part of the National Security Report, which concerns energy security. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, to a large extent, what was written in the Report this year repeated what was written last year. It largely relieves me of the need to repeat myself. Anyone who cares what I said last year can open the transcripts. I don't have to do this twice. However, there are problems that are not affected. There are problems related to both energy security as an element of national security and energy security social security. You see that at the moment in the field of energy, when there is a rise in prices, only now at the end of this year began to talk about increasing the amounts of the so-called energy poor. What is more interesting is that in the Report we did not see anywhere the recommendation that needs to be made that besides energy poor there is also a energy-sensitive concept, which may be new in our terminology, but it includes not only those who cannot pay their bills on the basis of low incomes, but also those who depend on electricity supply regardless of their income, because they have life-support equipment that needs to function, and this is still an element of social and demographic security. There are things that maybe also needed to find a place as references. I remember that in the first place in the pre-election program of the government of GERB in the field of gas mining research was the so-called gas station "Teres", now "Tervel", which is still standing there, but nothing was done on it last year, this year is already going on a second year, at least one recommendation to have: to speed up the processes because this is the safest way to have guaranteed gas supplies, to have no dependence on external suppliers. One more thing I'd like to pay attention to. Last year, we mentioned it in the National Security Report on the part that concerns energy security. We're talking again about a single gas warehouse that exists, we're going to expand it, we're going to modernize it. And in the same report, we say that efforts will be made to build a gas distributor. Well, a gas distributor without a second storage unit around the gas distributor couldn't have! That's not in the report. Since we are a little ahead of events, in the Energy Committee we have taken all the necessary action, and Parliament thank God for this, accepted unanimously our proposal, with which we have given the opportunity to make a second warehouse, but it is gone! In fact, it gives the impression that the reports that are written will not sum up for all spheres, because I have no view on them, but especially in the field of energy repeat the same themes written in Trafaret, Copi-passe, and perhaps if something more frightening has happened, it is reflected. Nowhere is the National Security Report talking about the risks to coal power plants, as well as an element of what we are about to experience. These are also high emissions prices, and the new regulations of the European Commission, which almost shut down coal plants in Europe. However, you know that about 40% of the electricity production in Bulgaria is from such plants. I do not want to stress that only in the Marishka pool there are about 50 thousand people employed in the mines themselves, in the tets themselves and in the surrounding enterprises that serve them. If we do not take measures, and this is still an element of national security, and we do not see this reflected in the report as recommendations on what should be done, at least as concerns, we show that the report in the part concerning energy security is largely superficial. I don't want to go any further. I think other people are gonna talk about it. I will also abstain from voting on this report. Yes, it has significant improvements compared to last year's report, but those gaps that I have just mentioned are, in my opinion, important. They concern each and every one of us, every citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, as you know that energy is necessary for any kind of activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A professional document has indeed been presented to us, which gives an objective picture of the state's state in all spheres of government. And when I say "observative" I would still add that at times this objective picture is so objective that it really leaves the impression of even excessive self-criticism in some areas. Such an example is the sphere of defence, where things are said in their true state. There are also shown the measures taken by the government and the National Assembly to correct this picture accumulated in recent decades. I understand my opposition colleagues that they highlight mostly negative points from the report and seek weaknesses, but indeed the team under the leadership of Mr. Krastev has done very well. Whether it is small or large, but this document really benefits every government leadership, including the MPs. I also stated this in the Commission when we were sitting, and I congratulated both Mr. Krastev and everyone who was involved in drawing up this report. Another dignity of the Report, except that it does not miss the weaknesses, is that I think that at last in some public document you can see the pros of this government. Enough negative moments reading and listening in the media, I would say only the negative ones, so I, frankly, for the first time have been able to see that a public document has been drawn up, including the pros, namely financial stability, tax stability, income growth, the attention given to the standard of living. Yeah, it's not honey and butter, there's a lot of accumulated problems, but, thank God, and positive things should also be objectively served. Positive things may not be presented objectively, e.g. exaggerated or exaggerated. In this case, however, I personally, reading in depth the Report, do not see such gaps in describing both the pros in the state and the negative trends. For all this, we will support this report. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are already after mid-2018. When I see the analysis of the situation in 2017 and what is happening so far in 2018, I also allow myself to be moderate optimistic about the future of the state and of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Are there any lines to Mr. Vangelov's statement? Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech was prompted by the speech of colleague Tasco Ermenkov. I'd make a line if we disagreed on these issues. On the contrary, I am making a statement because we have an agreement on what he said from this tribune. It's really about research in the deep Black Sea. You remember, they started as early as mid-2012. We have three blocks in the deep Black Sea In the first block, the Han Asparuh is facing a third exploration drill, so the research works are progressing well enough. This is extremely important and is related to national security because there is no greater guarantee for gas supplies than own production. Own extraction is in the country's territory, there's no way any external threat could threaten it. Next year we expect to have an exploration drill in the block of Silistar. For the last block of the "Khan Tervel" mentioned by the colleague, there were actually two procedures in the past. The last two or three years, there have been two concession procedures for this block. Since the situation has now changed with regard to the price of oil, which is determining for the investor interest in this type of activity, and the previous times, when the concession procedure was launched, the price of oil was about 30, 40 to 50 dollars We have an agreement on that, too. In the middle of the year in parliament, we changed the Energy Act in the part concerning gas storage facilities and gave the opportunity to build a second gas storage facility in Bulgaria, which is really important for plans for the development of a gas hub, and in general for the country, such as security of supply, energy security. From this point of view, we also agree. It would be nice to have more information on these issues next year in the National Security Report. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to congratulate the members of the National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, because, in the aspect of The healthcare system is implemented and monitored by far more comprehensive state and public elements. I would like to stress that absolutely objectively all challenges and achievements are reflected, as well as the problems that remain in 2017. Of course, in the context of this year, I take note that there will be a little more positive data for 2018, because, for example, in terms of the transfusion haematological this year, an investment is envisaged in a new apparatus to ensure the security of blood and blood products, and this will really contribute to better health and to ensuring the protection of people's lives. I would like to point out that the problems of personnel policy will also seek their solution, because we absolutely need to change the mechanisms for specialization in order to be able to keep young specialists in Bulgaria and at the same time look for options for support for healthcare professionals, which are really one of the elements of the serious personnel deficit in the country. So here the problem is identified very accurately and correctly. That is why these reports should serve, not politicise, but the nationally responsible political forces should propose rational solutions to overcome the problems identified in the National Security Report. I, and at the meeting of the Health Committee, made a note. We really must be self-critical, but we have something that we can definitely boast about in 2017, namely the prevention of Bulgaria from an epidemic of measles. Something that is not a fact in our neighbouring countries, and even in the entire European Union, where the rate of the sick, even the deceased, is quite high. The spread of this contagious disease was not allowed in Bulgaria, and this is a good indicator of the functioning of our health system because we have the bitter, negative experience since 2010, when we had an epidemic of 24,000 people who died and 24 people who died. As a result of the combined efforts of everyone in the healthcare system, which implements also the control of infectious diseases and preventive immunizations, the activities of health mediators, we have achieved a good immune coverage, good control and we have really managed to manage and prevent the spread of the disease in very short terms. Along with the critical remarks, this is a positive that I think could have found a place in the National Security Report. I conclude my speech with the belief that the updated National Security Strategy will indeed allow for a more detailed reflection of the health system as an element of security and indeed of the conclusions we draw in this report to identify the relevant measures to address identified problems. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I would like, within the time of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, to express my surprise that this report was not allocated to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There is hardly any doubt that the development of the European Union and the associated risks deserve greater attention from both the Bulgarian Parliament and the report which was presented. I will only make the recommendation in the next report that these aspects be affected to a greater extent. In essence, if this Parliament is also functioning next year, I hope that it will be allocated to the Commission, where we can comment in greater detail on these issues, not only the European Union, but also things relating to the use of European funds and increasingly visible corrupt practices related to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I am looking at the... you could, after the order, ask to be distributed as President of the Commission, but I am not finding a clue. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsonkov, I understand you're after Mr. Vitanov. Okay, I'll give you the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, firstly, I would like to ask for an extension of the time of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u59	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u60	According to the structure Slavcho Velkov speaks, but I would like to make a proposal, namely to establish some form of regulation for the adoption of these reports in the first months of the calendar year, at least because given the dynamics of the international situation, it makes some even true conclusions in the report itself, rather lose the actuality of their character. So I wish next year that the 2018 report should not be dealt with at the end of 2019. I will only comment on two spheres where I feel more competent, namely defence and foreign policy. With regard to defence, I must admit, and also agree with colleagues on the right, that it gives an objective picture. Described, the conclusions coincide fully with my conclusions, namely that the Bulgarian armed forces with difficulty and with increased risk fulfil their constitutional obligations. The three main problems are mentioned, namely: non-completion, lack of financial resources and delayed modernisation. What I miss in this part is the reasons why the interim committee is involved. I believe that it was her activity that slowed down the modernization of the Armed Forces, and here I expected there to be a greater analysis in this direction. With regard to the common European security policy, I believe that insufficient attention has also been paid to permanent structured cooperation. Also in just two sentences here, I expected a criticism, as Bulgaria at the first stage took advantage of only three projects without being a leading country on any of them, and for the European Defence Fund there has not been a word in the Report. [[Noise and lines.]] If it's not interesting, should I stop?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u61	No, go on, Mr. Vitanov. Colleagues, please! Go ahead, so you don't waste any time, I'll ask my colleagues again. Dear colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u62	Thank you. Foreign policy, which gives me the impression that because of the acute resistance we expressed during last year's adoption of the report, but here at least Russia is not represented as this entity that interferes with the harmonious functioning of the system of international relations, although Russia is not represented at all outside the emotional context and impartial. And I am just giving an example in the violation of the balance of forces in the Black Sea. Here the charge is to Russia for increasing capabilities without mentioning Romania without mentioning Turkey. Rather, the angle here should be different, that Bulgaria should take some urgent measures to increase the capabilities of the Bulgarian Navy. What also impresses me is that there are only two sentences about the situation in the Middle East and rather about the conflict in Syria. Perhaps such a report was detailed in the previous years, but a similar report to analyse the situation in the Middle East makes it incomplete. I expect, however, because it is one of the reasons for these migration processes that are developing at the moment, and when they have spoken about them, I would like to confirm a conclusion that Turkey's commitment to migration processes is in direct relation to the dynamics of its relations with the European Union, but here it is neglected to say that Bulgaria is actually a hostage of these relations. The last thing I want to point out is on foreign policy policies. Nowhere are Bulgaria's relations with third countries marked outside the relations with the European Union and the Western Balkan countries. The topic here is not mentioned. I believe that Bulgarian diplomacy and foreign policy does not take advantage of the opportunities that China's economic policy allows towards the region. All these arguments give me reason not to support the report and to abstain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Do you know how many times the State of National Security Report in 2017 mentions the word "poorness"? The answer is: three times, of which once in the introduction and once in relation to the international situation. How many times has the word "social exclusion" been mentioned? Once. It's just the introduction again. How many times has the word "irregularity" been mentioned? Once again, you won't be surprised, only in the introduction. The obvious conclusion to be drawn is that, for the authors of this report, poverty, inequalities and social exclusion do not pose any risk to national security. Accordingly, there is no word for policies to address these problems as a factor for this security. However, the facts missing from the National Security Report in 2017 are very precise in the European Statistical Office's review published only two days ago. Despite the claims in the Report that Bulgaria is developing well, it should be noted that there is some growth and prosperity, but still Bulgaria remains at the top of the negative rankings. Bulgaria is still the poorest country in the European Union. More than one third of the country's population lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to the data provided by In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 30% of Bulgarians lived in severe material deprivation. For comparison, average for the European Union over the past year, only 6.9% of the population or four times fall into this column. less than we did in our country. So much for the data I will now recall other information, which I think, by the way, is also missing in the Report, which the Finance Minister introduced us to just a few days ago from this tribune by providing us with data on salaries in Bulgaria in 2017. It became clear that nearly 80% of the workers in Bulgaria earn up to 1000 BGN. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, official information from the finance minister. This is the declared income of just over 2.4 million people in Bulgaria. In fact, less than 5% of the population earns more than BGN 2300. monthly. Only they would probably lose something in the introduction of progressive income taxation instead of the current flat tax without an unlimited minimum. Such a policy would certainly have been a step towards reducing the number of the poorest and reducing social inequalities, but none have been reported in this report. It is obvious that the policy of inequality will remain and unfortunately the Bulgarian citizens will continue to deepen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on the preparation of the 2017 National Security Report and to share that many of the colleagues who have discussed the Committee Report have said that the recommendations given in the last year's report that we discussed have been taken into account. Makes the impression that you can really look for a greater detail so that there may be more clarity on the potential threats to the country and the changing security environment. Based on the fact that in their small part such reports could provoke political talk, I believe that some of the main highlights of the security environment and the dynamics that are currently present and which will likely continue for the next year were mentioned in the closed session. I can say that from the GERB parliamentary group we will support the report because we are convinced that this is the right and quite comprehensive report, which can be presented to the National Assembly. The fact that colleagues on the left will not support it is indicative of their absence from the plenary on an extremely important debate that is being held today, both in the closed session and now in the open session. Everyone can conclude who wants to make real policies, who wants to discuss the real themes that stand before society and parliament as an institution today, because part of national security is the authority of the institution National Assembly, and colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party on a daily basis destroy the authority of the National Assembly, not participating in the meetings and abdicating from their daily activities, for which they are elected as MPs in the Forty-fourth Parliament. As far as Mr Vigenin's statement is concerned, I can say, as the President of Parliament has made the appropriate recommendation, that any report from any committee can be requested and can be seen in them. But to draw conclusions here from the parliamentary platform that corruption is so great and that is why we need to talk more about it, I think it is once again part of destabilizing our country. Maybe this is the opening phase for the upcoming vote that will be seen on Friday and the vote that will be next week. I would like to assure my fellow Members on the left that they can safely introduce their voters to the localities in the country, because some of your MPs are doing so for the first time. Inform them that the country is stable and that you introduce them to the things our country has and the opportunity to communicate with them during working hours. We do this after working hours and on the days when as MPs we have time to be in the electoral areas, to have the necessary debate, to talk to our voters and really to our employers. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. A line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I ask you very much before accusing us of sabotaging the work of the National Assembly, look at the registrations in the morning and see that if we do not register, you cannot hold a meeting here. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] Look at him, take out our number of registrations, and then accuse us of being the ones who are ruining the job. And as for your stability, surely you as a coalition are stable, but unfortunately, our country is not stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Is there another line? Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today's report is particularly interesting, and it is in very few respects concerning precisely the national security and state of affairs of the state. To a large extent, my speech has been provoked by the pre-speakers because the report is objective, but at the same time we must ask the question whether this report should be adopted today by the National Assembly? Because, Mr. Tsvetanov, we will present it to our constituents, but we will put it in the direction in which the state has fallen apart already. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Because the National Security Report shows extremely objectively severe and ill problems, a chronic repetition of such reports year after year, of cyclical problems in national security in every sphere of health, both internal security and defence, and in whatever you want. It is only difficult to accept this thorny approach at the end, but we said that there are all solutions there and this is the panacea of national security in the country. It is the MPs from the BSP who have the role today, here, to show the weaknesses of the report. They were precisely and very clearly shown because corruption is also on the agenda, and crime is on the agenda. This report contains all the grounds for the no-confidence vote so far and for this no-confidence vote to come, honourable Members. This is an authorship that you have done, we are just exposing it to the audience here in this Chamber and to the Bulgarian citizens to know what the situation is in every sector of state life in the country concerning national security. Today the pensioners are protesting that you did not agree to update their pensions. Outside they continue to protest the mothers of children with disabilities. This is part of national security because Bulgarian citizens do not feel secure anywhere, according to any indicator in their daily lives. The D.A.'s report said just a few weeks ago that crime was growing. In this report it is written that crime is growing and it is the result of a mismanaged social policy, a mismanaged educational policy, because it is written that crime is growing because there is social exclusion and marginalization of certain layers of the Bulgarian population. This is the result not only of this year, but of a ten-year continuing governance. That is why I say that in these reports we have cyclicity and, unfortunately, this year does not make any difference from the previous ones. That's the bitter finding. The debate will continue and will not end today. Friday will continue with our vote of no confidence. I say that the motives of all the previous ones were laid down in this report. I am glad that it has now been brought into the Chamber to show the accuracy of our claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not share in some part the opinion of my fellow Members, because for me this report is a political manifesto, in which the government's activities are celebrated in practice, there are only some positive aspects of its activities, and quite deliberately and inadvertently conceal the weaknesses in the country's governance. Unfortunately, the same ones are also concealed in the form of wishful thinking and expressions in the report, not establishing the data being exported by European organisations. The data in the reports of global and European organisations show very well that we are at the forefront of crime, of mortality, of corruption, of morbidity. At the same time, we see where we are in freedom of speech, by living standard, by education. I would like to draw attention to the analysis of the security environment. Unfortunately, I cannot say that the entire report is sufficiently analytical and thorough. It is in such a loose state that the links are lost, the logic of the state of national security is lost, and this should only confuse the one who reads it with the large volume in which the National Security Status Report is structured. I give you an example of a number of inaccuracies and weaknesses in the report. For example, in the foreign security policy, it is said that given the dynamically changing geostrategic security environment, constantly generating new challenges and risks, a large degree of probability can be expected to increase the negative effect of difficult to manage crises in the Middle East, with no forecast of peak periods, of negative influence. Unfortunately, what you find and have written about periods of peaks and negative influence can only lead to the conclusion that either the services cannot do their job, that is to predict future events, or if so, the reasons must be given. I would rather ask the heads of the specialized services to express our respect and positive attitude. I know that they are doing their job well, but with similar findings in the Report, which is public, I would not say that we express this positive attitude. In general, I would like to say that there are many weaknesses. Firstly, the report is extremely late. From this point of view, it is difficult to take the necessary action for change and preventive action within the year. The content of the document is multi-faceted, over-positive...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u73	Your time is up. I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u74	Yeah, I asked you for another 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u75	Yes, but you continue and you have no intention of graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u76	Finally, I would like to say that the report is late, it is not analytical enough, it is handled with too many facts, it is wordy and this will not lead to the desired effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u77	Thank you, Professor Tsonkov. Mr. Kirilov, do you support the application for a procedure? Here you go. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm making a procedural proposal because I asked for a procedure at 1:58 and 11 seconds. I was with colleague Toma Bikov to ask him to present to your attention...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u79	Mr. Kirilov, I am responsible for when you asked and whether I should give you the floor, so don't explain yourself, just make the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u80	You also wanted to give the floor to your opposition colleague, so you took away my opportunity to make the procedural proposal. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria "Imam".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u81	Yes, it was, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u82	Also, since we are in the hypothesis of a speech that has not been made, we need to complete the procedure for this statement and we can finish it anyway. Here, your attention is art. The 48th sentence is the second sentence: "By decision of the National Assembly, the meetings can be extended. What you're going to tell me is, when? My will was at 1:58 p.m. and 11 seconds when you took her from me. I demand a vote on the procedure and, respectively, for the completion of the debate on this item by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. No, the procedure won't be the other way around. Time's up, aren't you saying time's up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, let us not, at least for this important point, break the Rules, which is a Law in this State, with which these gentlemen back there defend and defend statehood in the State, and you now want to break precisely the Rules of the National Assembly at 14.05. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to suspend the sitting and vote tomorrow morning, as is right and as we have done so many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I will put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal and will respond to what you said. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 6, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. We continue with the speeches. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, you have the floor for a line, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonkov, I can't help but take the floor and not make a line of what you said. The report on the state of national security, you know when the Law is adopted, is being done for 2016 and 2017. So in the past, how many reports were there, which were the same, is not true because there are no such reports. Secondly, you can't talk: the report is not analytical, its structure is something like that and you keep pointing at us. This report was not made by the MPs of GERB, but was made by the same people who are standing in the last row and who are depoliticized. All these conclusions have been drawn by the heads and their specialists from the services. You can't say it's all done and made up! This report is about the state of national security. I believe that the report is more than necessary detailed and critical because it can be used by other services. It is manifest, it is open and anyone can draw conclusions that even in some cases can harm the national security of our country. I have only spoken because this report is being drawn up by a great deal of people and most of them are not by any political force. They are professionals, they are specialists and have made the conclusions for our country. The report should be used precisely so that we can see what the weaknesses are, how these weaknesses should be avoided and how our special services can work better. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u87	Thank you, my dear Admiral. Another line? Docent Tsonkov, come in for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Manushev, thank you for your reply. I would like to tell you that this report ultimately represents the activities of the national security of the ruling majority and of your government, and I would not like you in any way to involve my respected superiors and specialized security services, and to hide behind them. I said very well, I guess you didn't hear me well, they did their conscientiously, seriously and well work. There are a number of problems that you have to solve, but, unfortunately, for another year we see that you are not solving them. The incompletion is high, the financial security is not available, and at the same time we see that this compilation, this collection of data, the great Factology, the positions of different portfolio ministries do not give us the focus on the state of national security that is needed. I agree with you that this report is too bulky, too detailed and that is why I said: there is no need for so much data, but there should be more analyses, more forecasts, more policy that will be carried out in the short and long term, and what we need to achieve. Here I remember to draw your attention to something else, speaking of the defence policy, that in the analysis of the strategic security environment you pay more attention to the Black Sea region than to the Middle East. Talk to the specialized bodies and then tell them if it is accurate the way this report is made meaningfully, because I say that the biggest challenges and risks come from another direction and not from the Black Sea region. It is in the defence policy section that only talk about the Black Sea, which I do not think is the right thing to do. With such findings we will not get to this state of the armed forces, which we would like to see and have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I'll read you the draft decision and we'll move on to the vote. Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u90	There is a procedure, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u91	You're wrong, Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u92	Mr. President, in a voting procedure, we have the right to request a roll call due to a shortage of MPs in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u93	Mr. Svilensky, you're challenging me. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u94	Mr. Chairman, I am doing a re-voting procedure because of the inability to vote, and in this regard, I would like a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u95	You can't do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u96	Again with the re-election procedure. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u97	I'll decide, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u98	Ms. Karayancheva, please take over the National Assembly! The Rules of the National Assembly are now being violated before you, before your eyes! In front of Mr. Tsvetanov, the Rules of the National Assembly are being violated, and you stand and look at me from the second row.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u99	Mr. Svilensky, you're rudely violating the regulations right now. You broke it once before, and I didn't punish you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u100	You're breaking the Constitution!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-17.u101	If you continue to hinder the normal work of the National Assembly, if you continue to violate the normal work of the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]] Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. We're adjourned. The next regular plenary session shall be on 18 October at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme.
