ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the first item on Thursday: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE FOR CONSERVATION. Importer of the Council of Ministers. For the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Stoyanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to be made available to the Chamber: Ms. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetinka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Financial Markets Regulation and Mrs. Milena Dimitrova, Expert in the Financial Markets Regulation and Mrs. Vladimir Savov, acting as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for Management Insurance Supervision and Mr. Nikolay Petkov, State Expert in Management.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 147 MPs: 136 against 1, abstention 10. The offer is accepted. Please invite the persons admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u4	The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u5	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u6	Procedure? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u7	Dear Mr. President, in the work of today's plenary session two laws are to be considered, which are scandalous enough and harmful enough for Bulgarian citizens. These laws must not be passed, they must not enter into force. Today taxes will be raised on all cars twice, limits will be set on insurance. In this regard, and in view of the upcoming vote, I suggest you do a roll call check to establish the quorum and the people who will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Halil Recepov Letifov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Colleagues, we have a quorum, we can proceed with the vote. I shall put to the vote the three texts which were read to the Members of the National Assembly on the name of the Law, the text of the importer under § 1 and the text of the importer under § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: for 119, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u9	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "over-the-counter' are replaced by "over-the-counter' and the second sentence is created: "Re-insurance is also the provision of cover by re-insurers to an institution falling within the scope of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (s) (OB, L 354/2011 of 23 December 2016.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall support paragraphs 4 to 8 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u10	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3 and the text of the importer for paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 116, against 3, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u11	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, i.e. 2: 1. The term "Securities" is amended as follows:, (m) the qualification, knowledge and skills of employees directly engaged in insurance or reinsurance distribution activities, as well as of the persons concerned in the insurance holding structure of the insurer, respectively the reinsurance undertaking responsible for the insurance distribution activity, respectively reinsurance, products, including policies for continuing vocational training and development; 2. In point (o) (i) of the first subparagraph, the following point shall be inserted after the words (i) and (ii) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, and the words led by the Agency shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u12	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a text of the importer for § 9 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission as the first and second points; a text of the importer for § 10 by the amendment proposed by the Commission and the texts of paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14, including by an importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u13	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 286 is amended as follows: "Securities of insurance and reinsurance products' Art. 286. (1) The provisions of this Part of the Code, together with the provisions applicable under Part Two for insurance and reinsurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings, shall apply to the insurance and reinsurance distribution activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, carried out by the persons under art. 23, para. 1, t.1.. 3 and 5 and para. 2. (2) The distribution of insurance products shall include the activities of providing advice, offering or carrying out other preparatory work for the conclusion of insurance contracts, assisting in the conclusion of insurance contracts or assisting in the exercise of the rights and performance of insurance obligations, in particular in the making of insurance claims, including the provision of information on one or more insurance products in accordance with criteria selected by users of insurance services via a website or other means, and the compilation of insurance products, including comparison of prices and products, or the offering of a discount on the cost of the insurance product where the user may directly or indirectly conclude an insurance contract by means of a website on the Internet or other means. (3) The distribution of reinsurance products shall include the provision of advice, offering or carrying out other preparatory work for the conclusion of reinsurance contracts or for the conclusion of reinsurance contracts or for assistance in the exercise of the rights and performance of reinsurance obligations, as well as in the making of claims, including where those activities are carried out by a reinsurance undertaking without the intervention of a reinsurance intermediary. (4) Does not constitute the distribution of insurance or reinsurance products: 1. the accidental provision of information in the performance of another professional activity carried out by occupation if: (a) the information provider shall not take further action to assist in the conclusion or execution of an insurance contract; (b) the purpose of the activity referred to in point (a) is not to assist the insurance service user in the conclusion or execution of a reinsurance contract; 2. the performance of an insurance claim settlement activity on behalf of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, as well as the determination of the amount of damage caused and the preparation of expert assessments in relation to insurance claims; 3. the provision of insurance or reinsurance intermediaries or insurance or reinsurance undertakings only of data and information on potential insurers if the person does not take additional action to assist in the conclusion of an insurance or reinsurance contract; 4. the provision of information on insurance or reinsurance products, insurance or reinsurance undertakings, insurance or reinsurance undertakings or reinsurance undertakings to potential insurers only if the person does not take additional action to assist in the conclusion of an insurance or reinsurance contract. (5) An insurance, respectively a reinsurance product is a set of conditions forming the contents of an insurance, respectively a reinsurance contract and intended for the market. (6) The provisions of this Part of the Code shall not apply to insurance, reinsurance and reinsurance undertakings respectively, as well as to intermediaries engaged in insurance and reinsurance distribution activities, as regards risks located in third countries, as well as to insurance and reinsurance distribution activities carried out in third countries. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u14	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put the two texts to the vote: one is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 15 and the text of the importer for § 16, supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u15	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 18, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u16	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a text of the importer for paragraphs 17, 18, 19 and 20, supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 100, none, abstention 26. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u17	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 and shall delete the words for financial supervision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 as in para. 1 the words, it shall be distributed or requested shall be replaced by its supply or distribution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u18	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission, the text of the importer for § 22 by the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 97, none, abstention 23. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u19	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 23: ..................................................... Article 292 is amended as follows: "Requirements for qualification and reputation of employees who offer insurance and reinsurance products Art. 292. (1) Each insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall ensure that its employees directly engaged in insurance or reinsurance distribution activities as well as the persons concerned in the insurance or reinsurance management structure responsible for insurance or reinsurance distribution activities possess the knowledge and skills set out in Annex 3 to carry out their tasks and obligations adequately. The insurance undertaking shall, respectively, provide professional training for any person entering into business with the insurer, respectively, in a position which provides for immediate employment with insurance distribution activities, respectively reinsurance, products that ensure the acquisition of knowledge and skills set out in Annex 3. (2) The insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall ensure that no less than 15 hours of professional training is carried out annually for each of the employees directly engaged in insurance or reinsurance distribution activities, including the members of its management body responsible for the distribution of insurance or reinsurance products, depending on the nature of the products offered, the position and obligations of the person and the nature of the business of the insurer, respectively of the insurer. (3) Each insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall duly document the continuing vocational training or development completed by the persons within the year. Evidence of compliance with the requirements referred to in the sentence shall first be submitted to the Commission upon request. (4) Any employee of an insurance and reinsurance undertaking who is directly engaged in insurance or reinsurance distribution activities shall meet the requirements for good repute introduced in the policy under art. 77, para. 1, t. point 3 (d) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1. is not sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate crime of a general nature, unless rehabilitated; 2. is not deprived of the right to hold a materially responsible position; 3. has not been in the last three years prior to the date of insolvency set by the court, a member of a management or control body or an unlimited responsible partner in a firm for which insolvency proceedings are opened or terminated due to insolvency, if there have been any unsatisfied creditors; 4. is not declared bankrupt if there are remaining unsatisfied creditors and is not in insolvency proceedings. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. Article 293 is amended as follows: "Management and control of qualification requirements and good reputation of employees offering insurance and reinsurance products Art. 293. (1) The insurer shall, respectively, be obliged to carry out ongoing controls to comply with the qualification and reputation requirements of the employees, as well as the relevant persons in the insurance company's management structure, respectively the reinsurance undertaking responsible for the distribution of insurance or reinsurance products. (2) The insurer, respectively, shall determine a function within the management system to apply the rules and procedures under para. 1. Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) and (c) 79, para. 1, para. 3 sentence two, para. Art. 4 and 5, Art. 80, para. 1, t. 3? 9 and para. 7, 8 and 9.................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u20	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put two texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 23 and the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 24. They voted 122 MPs: 100, none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u21	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 26 but because it does not correspond to art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to form as § 26 and new § 27, 28, 29 and 30: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 294 is amended as follows: ? General Art. 294. (1) An insurance intermediary shall be any natural or legal person who is not an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or their employee or an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity and who carries out an insurance distribution activity for remuneration. The insurance intermediary shall be: 1. insurance broker or insurance agent registered under the terms and conditions of this Code; 2. an insurance intermediary from another Member State operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services. (2) An intermediary offering insurance products as an additional activity shall be any natural or legal person other than a credit institution or investment firm within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 1, respectively. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176/1 of 27 June 2013) and which, for remuneration, commence or operate insurance distribution activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as an additional activity if the following conditions are at the same time: 1. the main professional activity of the natural or legal person is not the distribution of insurance products; 2. the natural or legal person only distributes certain insurance products in addition to a good or service; 3. insurance products that it distributes do not cover life insurance risks or responsibilities risks, unless this cover is additional to the commodity or service that the intermediary offers as a core occupation activity. (3) An intermediary offering insurance products as an additional activity may be: 1. a natural or legal person with permanent residence, respectively having its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is subject to registration under this Code; 2. a natural or legal person with permanent residence, respectively based in the Republic of Bulgaria under para. 2 which carries out activity without registration under the order of art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1; 3. an intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity from another Member State operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services. (4) A reinsurance intermediary shall be any natural or legal person who is not an insurance or reinsurance undertaking or his employee and who, for remuneration, starts or operates the distribution of reinsurance products. The reinsurance intermediary may be: 1. insurance broker registered under the terms and conditions of this Code; 2. an insurance or reinsurance intermediary from another Member State operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services. (5) Insurance and reinsurance intermediaries may also carry out other commercial activities insofar as that code or other law does not provide otherwise. (6) Where an insurance intermediary or an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity enters into an insurance contract on behalf of an insurer and receives an insurance premium or contribution from the insurance service user, the premium or contribution shall be deemed to have been received by the insurer. Where an intermediary referred to in the sentence first receives from an insurance policy payment under an insurance contract intended for an insurance service user, it shall not be considered to have been paid to the insurance service user until it has actually received it. § 27. Article 295 is amended as follows: "Exhibitions" Art. 295. (1) Unless otherwise provided, Part Three of this Code shall not apply to intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the insurance is additional to a good or service supplied by a supplier where that insurance covers the risk of damage, loss or loss of the goods or of failure to use the service provided by the supplier or the risk of damage or loss of luggage and other travel risks reserved through the supplier; 2. the amount of the premium for the insurance product shall not exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 600 calculated on a proportional annual basis, or, if the insurance is additional to a service referred to in paragraph 2. 1, and this service shall be provided for three months or less, the amount of the premium paid per person shall not exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 200. (2) When carrying out the distribution of insurance products through a person under para. 1, the insurer shall ensure that this person: 1. provide the insurance user with information about: (a) the identification of the insurer and his address; (b) the procedures for filing complaints against the insurer; 2. apply appropriate and proportionate mechanisms: (a) comply with the requirements of art. 288, 288a and 333; (b) prior to the offer of an insurance contract to the insurance service user, take into account its requirements and needs; 3. sufficient time before the conclusion of the insurance contract and to the extent applicable to the insurance, in the light of its class, provide the insurance user with the information document on the insurance product under art. 325a, para. 7. (3) The insurance officer shall keep a list of intermediaries under para. 1 with which he entered into a contract. § 28. Article 296 is amended as follows: signing to the register of the Commission Art. 296. (1) Insurance brokers, insurance agents and insurance intermediaries to be registered offering insurance products as ancillary activities, having their registered office with permanent residence respectively, in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be entered in the register of the Committee on Art. 30, para. 1, t. 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act under the terms and conditions of the Code. The register shall also include the Member States where the intermediary operates under the right of establishment or freedom to provide services. (2) The insurance agent and the insurance intermediary to be registered offering insurance products as an ancillary activity shall be registered at the request of the insurance undertakings for which they carry out the distribution of insurance products, except in cases under art. 319, para. Two, sentence two. The insurance broker shall be registered at his request. (3) With regard to intermediaries - legal persons, in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act shall include all members of their management bodies. An insurance intermediary, respectively an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity subject to registration, which is a trader, shall maintain an up-to-date list of all its employees dealing directly with the distribution of insurance products, together with evidence of compliance with the requirements of qualification and good reputation and shall present them to the Commission upon request. (4) Insurance mediation shall not be carried out in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without registration under para. 1 of persons not registered as insurance intermediaries or as intermediaries offering insurance products as ancillary activities, except in the cases referred to in art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 as well as in cases of activity under the conditions of the right to establishment or the freedom to provide services. Where an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, uses reinsurance services of a trader with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, the insurer, respectively, may only use reinsurance intermediaries registered under this code. (5) Registration of the same person shall not be permitted at the same time as: 1. insurance agent and insurance broker; 2. insurance agent and intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity; 3. insurance broker and intermediary offering insurance products as an additional activity. (6) In the case of the distribution of insurance products, the insurance and reinsurance undertaking shall only use the services of intermediaries that are registered or those meeting the requirements of art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 including intermediaries operating under the conditions of the right to establishment or the freedom to provide services. (7) The Commission shall establish and maintain an Internet registration system for insurance intermediaries and intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity, which shall ensure that a registration form is completed in an easily accessible manner on the Internet. (8) The order for registration under para. 7 shall be determined by the Commission's regulation. § 29. Article 297 is amended as follows: "Registering conditions" Art. 297. (1) As an insurance intermediary or intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity, or a reinsurance intermediary, only a person meeting the requirements set out in Chapter 30, Chapter 30 or Chapter 30 shall be registered. (2) Intermediaries under para. 1 shall at any time comply with the requirements of this Code and the Vice-President shall supervise it. Where an insurance, reinsurance, intermediary or registered intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity no longer meets the requirements of this Code, the Commission shall remove it from the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and inform the competent authorities of the host Member States where the insurance intermediary operates in such countries under the conditions of the right of establishment or freedom to provide services. § 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: A sentence first does not apply to intermediaries operating in the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or freedom to provide services.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 25, supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 26 and the creation of new paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 with content according to the Commission proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 77, none, abstention 24. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u23	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 31, and the words in Chapter Twenty-nine are being created. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u24	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote: firstly, the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 31, with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission; secondly, the text of the importer for § 28, which becomes § 32; and thirdly, the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 33, supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 24. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u25	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 34. Under § 31, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 31, which shall become § 35: § 35. Article 304 is amended as follows: "Requirements for qualification and good reputation" Art. 304. (1) Each insurance broker shall ensure that his employees directly engaged in insurance distribution activities have at least secondary education and meet the requirements of art. 303, para. 1 and possess the relevant knowledge and skills set out in Annex 3 to carry out their tasks and duties adequately. (2) Each insurance broker shall ensure continued vocational training and development of the persons under para. 1 and the persons referred to in art. 303, para. 2 and 3 in order to continue to fulfil their obligations at an appropriate level corresponding to their role, including by completing at least 15 hours of professional training or development annually, taking into account the nature of the products sold, the distributor type, the role they perform and the activity carried out within the insurance or reinsurance distributor. (3) Each insurance broker shall duly document the continuing vocational training or development completed by the persons within the year and the results thereof, which shall be submitted annually to the Commission by 31 January of the following year. (4) The insurance broker shall be obliged to carry out vocational training to ensure the acquisition of the knowledge and skills set out in Annex 3 for any person entering into employment with the insurance broker in a position which provides for immediate employment with insurance distribution activities, except for persons meeting the requirements of art. 303, para. 2. The professional training shall end with an examination of the acquired knowledge and skills, the successful implementation of which shall be certified by a document from the organisation that carried out it. (5) The organisation for carrying out the training under para. 4 may be a legal person who has developed and registered with the Commission a training programme which ensures the management of professional knowledge and skills under Annex 3 as well as a framework with thematic scope and procedural rules for conducting an examination and assessment rules ensuring the accurate and impartial assessment of professional knowledge and skills under Annex 3. The organisation for conducting the training under para. 4 may also be the insurance intermediary. The requirements for registration of the training programme, framework, procedural rules for conducting an examination and assessment rules shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 303, para. 7. (6) The insurance broker shall carry out ongoing control of the continued compliance with the requirements for qualification and good reputation of the employees under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u26	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote: firstly, the text of the importer for § 30, which becomes § 34; secondly, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 31, which becomes § 35; and next, the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 36. Vote 95 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u27	The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: § 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 306, para. 4 words................................................................................. 2, p. 1s and 1s are replaced by a higher education. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 38, by: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 words are replaced by the words are replaced by the words are replaced by the words are replaced by the words are 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 words to be replaced by the previous points to be replaced by the previous points to be replaced by the previous points to be replaced by the previous points to be replaced by the previous points to be replaced by the previous points. 8 and 9 and the The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 39. 7 the words "there is a narrow' shall be replaced by "in close'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u28	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote: firstly, the creation of a new § 37 by text, according to the Commission proposal; secondly, the text of the importer for § 33, which becomes § 38 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; thirdly, the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 39 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 70 against 3, abstention 25. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u29	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 35, which shall become § 40: § 40. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 311 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." changes in the circumstances recorded in the trade register and in the register of non-profit legal entities; b) To be created t. 3 and 4: "3." any change in the circumstances under art. 307, para. 1, t. 8..10; 4. any change in declared circumstances by persons under art. 303, para. One or three.......................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 sentence, first sentence, first sentence, after the word "Register', is added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. Paragraphs 36, 37 and 38 by importer which become § 41, 42 and 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u30	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 35, which shall become § 40 and the texts of an importer for § 36, 37, 38 which shall become § 41, 42, 43 respectively, and which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 66, against 2, abstention 26. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u31	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 39, which shall become § 44: § 44. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 316 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The insurance agent is a natural person or a sole trader, each member of the management body of the insurance agent and any other person authorised to manage or represent him must have at least secondary education and comply with the requirements of art. 303, para. 1. The insurance agent is a natural person or a sole trader, and any person who, by decision of the competent authority of the insurance agent, under the law and the founding act of the agent, is designated to be responsible for and to manage the insurance distribution activity, as well as any person in charge of the insurance agent responsible for carrying out the insurance distribution activities must have been successfully trained under art. 317, para. 1 or meet one of the requirements of art. 303, para 2, t, 1 or 2, the relevant knowledge and skills are those defined in Annex 3. Article 303, para. 3 shall apply accordingly. The employees of the insurance agent directly engaged in the insurance distribution activity shall comply with the requirements of art. 303, para. 1 have passed training under Art. 1. 317, para. 1 and pass exams on art. 317, para. 2. 2. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the two hundred and fifty thousand and the number three hundred and thirty-six hundred and fifty-six hundred and fifty-six thousand is replaced by three hundred and seven hundred thousand. 3. In para. 8 A sentence 2 is created: A sentence is also applied first in cases where the collection of premiums is not entrusted to the insurance agent by the insurer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 45, as in para. 2 the words "as established' shall be replaced by "supposed', and in para. 3 the word "Sustainably" is replaced by "Sustainable." Paragraphs 41, 42, 43 and 44 by importer which become § 46, 47, 48 and 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 39 by importer which becomes § 44; the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 45 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the texts by importer of paragraphs 41, 42, 43 and 44 which become paragraphs 46, 47, 48 and 49. They voted 100 MPs: for 70, against 1, abstention 29. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u33	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 50, as in art. 321b, para. 2 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by "supplied'. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 46 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to form new § 51, 52, 53 and 54: § 51. The name of Chapter 30 and second is amended as follows: Chapter 30-second. The right of establishment and the freedom to grant insurance and reinsurance intermediaries services § 52. Article 322 is amended as follows: In the case of an insurance broker, insurance agent and ancillary insurance intermediary from the Republic of Bulgaria to another Member State Art. 322. (1) An insurance broker and an insurance agent registered under the terms and conditions of Chapter 30, Chapter 30 first, respectively, as well as intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity registered under Chapter 30, first and foremost, may operate in the territory of another host Member State under the conditions of the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services. (2) When a mediator under para. 1 for the first time intends to operate in the territory of a host Member State under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, it shall provide the Commission with the following information: 1. the name/name, the address of the management/seat or, where applicable, the EIC; 2. the Member State or Member States where it intends to operate; 3. its category as an intermediary and in the case of an insurance agent and an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity the name of the insurer that represents or has a contract for the distribution of insurance services; 4. the relevant classes of insurance where the intermediary does not mediate in all classes of insurance or does not wish to mediate in all classes of insurance for which it is registered in the exercise of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services. (3) When a mediator under para. 1 for the first time intends to operate in the territory of a host Member State under the conditions of the right of establishment, the intermediary shall provide the Commission with the following information: 1. the address in the host Member State at which documents may be received; 2. the names of all persons responsible for the management of the branch or permanent presence. (4) Any permanent presence of an intermediary in the territory of another Member State equivalent to a branch shall be treated in the same way as a branch, unless the permanent presence of the intermediary is a subsidiary registered in the host Member State. (5) Within one month of receipt of the notification of the intention to operate in the territory of a host Member State under the conditions of freedom to provide services provided together with the information referred to in para. 2, the Commission shall notify the relevant competent authority of the host Member State. The Commission shall immediately inform the insurance broker, insurance agent or insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity without delay of the notification to the competent authority of the host Member State and that the intermediary may commence its activities in the host Member State. In addition, the Commission shall inform the intermediary of the manner in which it can become aware of the rules laid down in the public interest applicable in the territory of the host Member State and that the intermediary must comply with those rules in order to start and carry out its activities in the host Member State. (6) Within one month of receipt of the notification of the intention to operate in the territory of a host State under the conditions of the right of establishment provided together with the information under para. 2 and 3, the Commission shall notify the competent authority of the host Member State concerned and shall immediately notify the insurance broker, the insurance agent or the insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity in writing of the notification to the competent authority of the host Member State. (7) The Commission shall inform the intermediary under para. 6 and the information on the rules laid down in the protection of the public interest applicable in the territory of the host Member State received by the competent authority in that country and informs it that the intermediary must comply with those rules in order to start and operate in the host Member State. Where, within one month of receipt of the notification, the competent authority has not sent the information referred to in the first sentence, the intermediary under para. 1 can find the branch and begin its work. (8) The Commission may refuse within the term under para. 6 to provide the information under para. 2 and 3 of the relevant competent authority of the host Member State by reasoned decision if the intermediary's organisational system or financial situation is inadequate or insufficient for the purpose of the insurance distribution activity to which the intermediary intends to operate in the Member State. The Commission shall immediately inform the intermediary of the decision referred to in the first sentence. (9) The insurance broker, insurance agent or ancillary insurance intermediary shall inform the Commission in writing of the change in accordance with paragraph 2 or 3, in respect of any of the circumstances in respect of which the information has been provided pursuant to paragraph 2 or 3, of the insurance broker, insurance agent or insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity. The Commission shall notify the competent authority of the host Member State of the change no later than one month from the date of receipt of the information. (10) The Commission shall immediately inform the relevant competent authority of the host State where the insurance broker, the insurance agent or ancillary insurance intermediary respectively is deleted from the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 323 is amended as follows: In the Republic of Bulgaria, insurance activities are carried out by insurance companies in the Republic of Bulgaria. and reinsurance intermediaries from another Member State Art. 323. (1) An insurance, respectively a reinsurance intermediary or an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity registered in another Member State may operate in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services. (2) The Commission shall without delay confirm to the competent authority of the country of origin the receipt of a notification of the intention of an insurance, insurance intermediary or intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity registered in the country of origin to operate in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services and information similar to the information under art. 322, para. Two and three. Where a notification by sentence is received first of the activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment, within one month of receipt of the information under art. 6 (1) of Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products (OB, L 26/19 of 2 February 2016)), hereinafter referred to as "Directive (EU) Butane', the Commission shall inform the competent authority of the country of origin of the rules of art. 289. (3) The insurance activity, respectively the reinsurance intermediary under the conditions of freedom to provide services may begin from the date on which the insurance, reinsurance or ancillary insurance intermediary registered in another Member State has received a notification from the competent authority of the home country of confirmation of the notification under para. 2 sentence one, on the committee's side. (4) The activity of an insurance intermediary under the conditions of the right of establishment may begin from the date on which the insurance intermediary, respectively the insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity registered in another Member State, has received a notification from the competent authority of the home country that the Commission has notified it of the rules under art. 289, respectively, from the expiry of the term under para. Two, sentence two. (5) The activity under para. 3 and 4 shall start and be carried out by The insurance, reinsurance or ancillary insurance intermediary registered in another Member State shall comply with the rules laid down in art. 289. .............................................................................. In Part Three, Title Two, Chapter Thirty-Second is created art. 323a, 3236, 323c, 323d, 323e and 323f: The competent authorities of the home Member State and of the host Member State shall be responsible for the allocation of powers by agreement between the competent authorities of the home Member State and the host Member State. Art. 323a. (1) Where the place in which the main activity is managed, the main place of business, the insurance or reinsurance intermediary or the ancillary insurance intermediary is located in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission may conclude an agreement with the competent authority of the home Member State under which the Commission shall act as the competent authority of the home Member State with regard to the requirements of Chapters IV, V, VI and VII of Directive (EU) 2016/97. (2) Where the place in which the main activity is managed, the main place of business, the insurance or reinsurance intermediary or the ancillary insurance intermediary is located in another Member State, the Commission may conclude an agreement with the competent authority of the host Member State under which the competent authority of the host Member State shall act as the competent authority of the home Member State as regards the requirements of Chapters IV, V, VI and VII of Directive (EU) 2016/97. (3) In the case of an agreement under para. 1 and 2 The Commission shall inform the mediator to whom the Agreement relates and the European Authority. Allocation of powers between the competent authorities of the home Member State and the host Member State Art. 3236. (1) In carrying out an insurance activity, respectively reinsurance mediation in the right of establishment in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission, respectively the Vice-President, shall carry out ongoing supervision in respect of the activities of the branch for compliance with the requirements of art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8, Art. Art. 149 "151," Art. 149 288, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 288a, 299a, 324, 325a, 325a, 330, 333 and Chapter thirty-five. (2) The Commission, respectively, the Vice-President, shall have the right to verify the organisation of the activities of the branch and to require the necessary changes to be made to enable the implementation of the provisions of art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8, Art. Art. 149 "151," Art. 149 288, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 288a, 299a, 324, 325a, 330, 333 and Chapter thirty-five, as well as the regulations on their application to the activities of the branch in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Violation of obligations under the conditions of freedom to provide services Art. 323c. (1) Where the Commission finds that an insurance or reinsurance intermediary, respectively an intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of freedom to provide services, infringes the provisions of that Code, it shall inform the competent authority of the country of origin thereof. (2) Where, despite the measures taken by the competent authority of the home Member State or if such measures have not been taken or have been ineffective and the insurance intermediary, respectively, the insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity shall continue to act in such a way as to significantly harm the interests of insurance users in the Republic of Bulgaria or the proper functioning of the insurance market, respectively, the Commission, after informing the competent authority of the home Member State, shall take appropriate measures to prevent further irregularities, including by imposing a prohibition on the intermediary to continue to carry out new business activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, the Commission may refer the matter to the European Authority and request its assistance pursuant to Article 19 of Regulation (EU) Noсам. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to the powers of the Commission and of the Vice-President to implement measures under art. 587 to impose administrative penalties for the prevention or termination of infringements, where necessary immediate action to protect the interests of users of insurance services. In this case, the Commission may impose a ban on the intermediary to continue to carry out new business activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The Commission shall immediately inform the intermediary under para. 1, the competent authority of the home Member State, the European Authority and the European Commission for each measure implemented by it under para. 2 or 3 together with the detailed reasons for its application. Violation of obligations in the course of activity under the conditions of the right of establishment Art. 323. (1) In the event of a violation of the requirements of art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8. Art. 149 "151," Art. 149 288, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 288a, 299a, 324, 325a, 330, 333 and Chapter 35 of an insurance or reinsurance intermediary, respectively, by an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment, the Commission, the Vice-President, shall apply the measures under that Code. (2) In the event of a breach of Directive (EU) 2016/97, other than infringements of the requirements of art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8, Art. Art. 149 "151," Art. 149 288, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 288a, 299a, 324, 325, 325a, 330, 333 and Chapter thirty-fifth, by a mediator under para. 1, the Commission shall notify the competent authority in the home country of the intermediary. Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) and (c) 323c, para. 2, 3 and 4. Actions for infringements in another Member State Art. 323e. Where the Commission has been informed by the competent authority of the host Member State of an infringement by a local insurance or reinsurance intermediary or by an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity operating in that Member State under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, the Commission shall, after the establishment of an infringement, apply measures under art. 587 and inform the competent authority of the host Member State thereof. Powers in respect of national provisions laid down in the protection of the public interest Art. 323f. (1) In the event of violation of the rules of art. 289 by an insurance or reinsurance intermediary or an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity from another Member State operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services shall apply the measures and penalties applicable to persons with permanent residence or with their registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this case, the Commission may impose a ban on the intermediary to continue to carry out new business activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Commission may prohibit the distributor of insurance products from another Member State from operating within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services where the activity concerned is wholly or principally directed towards the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the sole purpose of avoiding legal provisions which would be applicable if that distributor of insurance products resides or has its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria and where its activity seriously threatens the proper functioning of the insurance or reinsurance market in the Republic of Bulgaria in respect of the protection of users of insurance services. The order referred to in Article 1 shall be the first to apply when the prohibition is imposed. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) In such a case, the Commission, the Vice-President respectively, after informing the competent authority of the home Member State, may take any appropriate measures under this Code to protect the rights of users of insurance services in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The Commission may refer the matter under para. 2 to the European Authority and to request its assistance in accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. Colleagues, I will put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 50, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the text for the creation of new paragraphs 51, 52, 53 and 54 with texts, as proposed by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 93, none, abstention 26. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u35	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 47... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u36	Declaration? We started texting, would you wait for a vote and I'll give you the floor for a declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u37	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 55, i.e. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 55, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. On behalf of a parliamentary group, you have the floor, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u39	Dear Bulgarian citizens, I would like to present to your attention some facts from yesterday, to remind the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of the country, to ask four questions to Prime Minister Borisov and to make a call to you. The facts. Yesterday at 2:00 p.m. from the Press Centre of BSP for Bulgaria we announced that I will visit the villages of Malko Sharkovo, Golyamo Sharkovo, town of Bolyarovo to meet the farmers whose animals were killed because of suspicions of plague, and in the evening I will hold an open meeting with the residents of Yambol and Yambol in the city. Arriving in the village of Malko Sharkovo, I was met by a police patrol and my meeting was held under their supervision. Arriving in the village of Golyamo Sharkovo, another police patrol met me and the situation was repeated. The people there were extremely surprised because they've never seen so many policemen in one place, despite dozens of reports of robberies, robberies and burglaries from their homes. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] To the greatest surprise, my meeting at Grandma Dora's house, that Grandma Dora, who became a symbol of the protest... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u40	Colleagues, please keep quiet and listen to me in a calm position!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u41	...a lonely old woman who lives in the village. So this meeting was also held under police supervision. There was a police patrol outside Grandma Dora's house. [[Noise and lines.]] The same was the situation in Bolyarovo, where the police were waiting for me in the center, and in Yambol, before my arrival, the police entered the theater hall and questioned the people when I would come, what they were there for, what this meeting was about. In one of the settlements, I asked the cops, I even took the liberty of joking: "What's going on, have we declared a state of emergency, that so many police are piled up?" And I received the following answer: "We are executing an order from Sofia. " [[(Noise, lines and shouts by GERB:]] I'd like to pay my respects to the regular officers of the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u42	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u43	They are doing their job, but to my question: what is this order, the answer was: "Let's not let you out of our sight." [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Now to recall the laws and the Constitution of the country. Dear Bulgarian citizens, such a thing can happen under the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations, which obliges the organizers of the meeting or the rally, if they wish, to take the necessary measures and to ensure a police presence. The organizer of these meetings is BSP and we didn't ask for the police. This could happen on the basis of another law. The Local Self-government Act and the Local Administration Act, where it is said that the Mayor may request such presence because of the security of the event. The mayors of the settlements I was in didn't ask for that kind of presence. Therefore, all this was outside the limits and norms of the law. My questions to Prime Minister Borisov: who, where, in which body and on what grounds has decided all my meetings yesterday to be held under police supervision? Secondly, will my every move in the country from now on be monitored and controlled by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I want an official answer from Prime Minister Borisov because I have unofficial information that this is decided to be the case. Third, Mr. Borisov, are we free people in a free country? I feel like a free man, but now I doubt if we're in a free country under your rule?! Fourth, what is the purpose of this organization? If it's to limit me in my actions and my words, you're confused. This is not going to work. [[Noise and lines.]] If it is to respect people not to come to meetings with the opposition and freely express their opinions, it is an invasion of fundamental human, constitutional and democratic rights. You've already allowed yourself to go home, to write acts, to impose fines for the very right to participate in rallies and protests. [[Heckling]] Do not come out with the explanations that you care for my security, which I hear and from here there is no information that she is in danger. I walk freely among the people, thank God, I feel good there and I have no problems, so don't come up with that explanation. I don't need this attention from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Direct this money, this energy and this money where you promised: police officers in every village, not policemen after the leader of the opposition. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Finally, I appreciate the behaviour of the government as a rude violation of the freedoms and rights of citizens, as a police matter, as a last attempt to save your power with pressure, intimidation and punishment of the insurgent Bulgarian citizens. In the end, my address is to them. Dear Bulgarians, do not be afraid of anyone, but no one can take away your right within the law to think, to speak and to act differently from the power and the Borisov regime! You are free people, whether we live in a free country depends on each of us! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, we are continuing with the legislative part of the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u45	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "In the case of a conclusion' shall be replaced by the words "Enough time before the conclusion'; (b) To be created t. 7. "7." whether it represents the insurance service user or acts on behalf of and at the expense of the insurer. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The insurance intermediary shall inform the insurance intermediary of the time prior to the conclusion of the insurance contract and of whether: 1. provide advice as an insurance broker on the insurance products it distributes and, whether it provides its advice as an insurance broker under art. 325a, para. 5, or 2. has a contractual obligation to conduct an insurance intermediary exclusively for one or more insurers, in which case the insurance intermediary shall provide it with the names of those insurers; or 3. there is no contractual obligation to conduct insurance mediation exclusively for one or more insurers and does not provide their advice under art. 325a, para. 5, in which case the insurance intermediary shall provide the insurance intermediary with the names of the insurance undertakings for which it can carry out insurance mediation; 4. the nature of the remuneration it receives in relation to the insurance contract; 5. in relation to the insurance contract works against: (a) the fee is paid directly by the customer; (b) commission of any kind in cases where its remuneration is included in the insurance premium; (c) any other type of remuneration, including economic benefits of any kind proposed or given in connection with the insurance contract; (d) a combination of any of the types of remuneration referred to in points (a) and (b) or (b) of point (c) of paragraph 1. 3. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: Where the fee is paid directly by the insurance service user, the insurance intermediary shall inform him of its size or, where this is not possible, of the method of its calculation. (4) Where the insurance service user makes payments other than current premiums and planned payments under the insurance contract after its conclusion, the insurance intermediary shall disclose the information under para. 1 "3" before each payment. 4. The creation of para. 5. The intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity, with the exception of intermediaries under art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, comply with the provisions of para. 1, t. 1, 2, 5 and 6 and para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 57 as in para. 5 Everywhere the word "supposes" is replaced by "supposes." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 50, which becomes § 58, and the words.................................................................................. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words................................................................................ 324 and 325 (c) shall be replaced by the following: 324, 325 and 325a. 2. The creation of para. 2: The information provided for in Article 2 (2) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 341 and 342 shall not be made available to professional customers within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 10 of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173/349 of 12 June 2014).) (hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/65/EU" (hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/65/EU").
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on this, first, the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 48, which becomes § 56, the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 47, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission, the wording of the importer for § 50, which becomes § 58, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 51, which becomes § 59. Vote 91 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u47	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 52, which becomes § 60, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words 324.. 328, 341 and 342................................................ 328, 341 and 342...................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 61, and the words................................................................................. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 62 as in para. 6 the words "to do harm' shall be replaced by "to do harm'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 55 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para 1 of Decree No 883 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to form in new paragraphs 63 and 64: .............................................................................. Article 334 is amended as follows: ? Documents for legitimization Art. 334. In carrying out its activities, the insurance broker shall be legitimised with the registration certificate issued by the Commission and the insurance agent, respectively the insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 64. Article 335 is amended as follows: Paid insurance premium Art. 335. Persons not entered in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 9 or 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act as insurance, insurance intermediaries or intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity shall not accept insurance premium payments except in the cases referred to in art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 or if they have a license to carry out payment services.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u48	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 52, which becomes § 60, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 61 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 54, which becomes § 62 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; and the creation of new paragraphs 63 and 64 by text under the Commission proposal. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 78, against 3, abstention 14. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u49	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 336, para. 1 the words "or an insurance intermediary" shall be replaced by a insurance intermediary or an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 57 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 66 and 67: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 337 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "the agent" the intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity shall be added. 2. In para. 2 in a sentence first after the words "Instructions" the intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity is added and at the end of a sentence, the intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity is added. 3. In para. 3, in sentence two, the words "art." 294, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the § 67. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 338 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the first sentence, the words "the intermediary' or "the intermediary' are replaced by "the intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity', or by means of "the intermediary', or in a second sentence after the word "the intermediary', the intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity. 2. In para. 2 an insurance intermediary is added as an ancillary insurance intermediary and the words an insurance intermediary shall be replaced by an insurance intermediary. 3. In para. 3 after the word "Mediocre" a mediator offering insurance products as an additional activity is added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 56, which shall become § 65; the creation of new paragraphs 66 and 67 by text, according to the Commission proposal and the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 68. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 11. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u51	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 69, i.e. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the word "worker" shall be The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 60, but because it does not correspond to art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 70 and 71: ...... 70......................................................................... Article 341 is amended as follows: Additional information on users of insurance services in relation to investment insurance products Art. 341. (1) Subject to the provisions of art. Article 324 325, sufficient time before the conclusion of the contract, the insurance service user shall be provided with appropriate information regarding the distribution of an investment insurance product and with regard to all costs and charges associated with it. This information shall include at least the following: 1. when a Board is provided, whether the insurance intermediary or the insurance intermediary will provide the insurance service user with a periodic assessment of an appropriate product in relation to the investment product recommended to that user under art. 342, para. 11; 2. as regards information on investment insurance products and proposed investment strategies, appropriate guidance and warnings on the risks associated with those products or with specific proposed investment strategies; 3. as regards the information on all costs and related charges to be disclosed, the information relating to the distribution of the investment insurance product, including the cost of the advice, where applicable, the price of the recommended or offered to the insurance service user an investment insurance product and the way in which the user can pay them, including any payments by or against third parties. (2) The information on all costs and charges, including the costs related to the distribution of the investment insurance product not resulting from the occurrence of the market risk at the base of the product, shall be in aggregate form in order for the insurance service user to understand the total price as well as the cumulative effect on the return on the investment and, where the user so wishes, a breakdown of the costs and charges per item shall be provided. Where applicable, such information shall be provided to the insurance service user on a regular basis, at least once a year, throughout the entire investment cycle. (3) The information under para. 1 and 2 shall be provided in an understandable form and in such a way that the insurance service user is able to understand the nature and risks associated with the investment insurance product in order to take an informed investment decision. Where the characteristics of the investment insurance product so permit, the information may be provided in a standardised format. (4) Insurance, insurance intermediary, respectively, shall fulfil its obligations under art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8, Art. 288, para. 1 and by the acts referred to in art. 340, when paying or receiving a fee or commission, provides or receives a non-cash benefit in relation to the distribution of an investment insurance product or ancillary service to or from any person other than the insurance user or his representative, provided that the payment or benefit complies with any of the following requirements: 1. shall have no adverse effect on the quality of the relevant service for the insurance service user; 2. does not violate the obligation of the insurance intermediary or the insurance intermediary to act honestly, correctly and professionally in accordance with the interests of its insurance service users. (5) Paragraph 4 shall apply without excluding the application of art. 325, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 and para. 5. (6) By Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/2359 of 21 September 2017 supplementing Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council with the information requirements and with the rules on ethics applicable to the dissemination of insurance-based investment products (OB, L 341/8 of 20 December 2017)), hereinafter referred to as "Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/2359', are defined as: 1. the assessment criteria, whether the incentives paid or received by the insurance intermediary or the insurance intermediary have an adverse impact on the quality of the service provided to the insurance service user; 2. the criteria for assessing the compliance of insurers and insurance intermediaries paying or receiving incentives to act honestly, correctly and professionally in accordance with the interests of the insurance service user. § 71. Article 342 is amended as follows: "Assessment of an appropriate or appropriate product or service. Provision of information to the insurance service user Art. 342. (1) Subject to the provisions of art. 325a, when providing advice on investment insurance products, the insurance intermediary, respectively, is obliged to collect the necessary information on the knowledge and experience of the investment insurance user in view of the specific product or service, its financial situation and the objectives of the investment, including its risk-taking tendency to offer him an appropriate product that corresponds to the level of risk and its ability to bear losses. Where package sales advice is provided, the insurance intermediary, respectively, shall assess whether the whole package of services or products is suitable for the insurance service user. (2) Subject to the provisions of art. 325a, where an insurance intermediary, respectively, operates on the distribution of insurance products other than that under para. 1, in the case of sales without advice, the insurance intermediary shall, respectively, request information from the insurance service user about its knowledge and experience in the investment area to which the product or service offered or sought concerns, so that the insurance distributor can assess whether the insurance service or product concerned is appropriate for the user. Where a package sale of services or products is envisaged under art. 333, in the assessment, the insurance intermediary is obliged to assess whether the whole package of services or products is appropriate for the insurance service user. (3) Where the insurance intermediary, the insurance intermediary, respectively, determines on the basis of the information received under para. 2, that the product is not appropriate for the insurance service user, the insurance intermediary, respectively, warns the insurance service user. This warning may be carried out in a standardised format. (4) Where an insurance user does not provide the information under para. 2 or provided insufficient information on its knowledge and experience, the insurance intermediary, respectively, warns him that he cannot determine whether the product concerned is appropriate for him. This warning may be carried out in a standardised format. (5) Subject to the provisions of art. 325a, where no advice is provided with regard to investment insurance products at a deviation from the provisions of para. The insurance intermediaries may carry out insurance distribution activities within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without the need to obtain information or carry out the assessment under para. 2 - 4 where all the conditions are met as follows: 1. the activity concerns one of the following investment insurance products: (a) contracts which lead to an exposure of investments only to financial instruments considered as non-complicated under Directive 2014/65/EU and do not include an entity which makes it difficult for the insurance service user to understand the existing risk; (b) other non-complex investments through insurance products for the purposes of this subparagraph; 2. the activity of the distribution of insurance products shall be carried out on the initiative of a user of insurance services; 3. the insurance service user is clearly informed that when carrying out the insurance distribution activity, the insurance intermediary, respectively, is not obliged to assess whether the given or offered investment insurance product is appropriate and whether the insurance distribution activity carried out or offered is appropriate and that the insurance service user does not benefit from the relevant protection of the applicable operating rules; such a warning may be carried out in a standardised format; 4. the insurance agent, respectively the insurance intermediary, shall fulfil its obligations under art. 146, para. 5 "8" and by the acts referred to in art. 340. (6) When entering into an insurance contract with an insurance user whose usual residence or establishment is in a Member State which does not apply the exception under para. 5, the insurance intermediary, the insurance intermediary, having its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, which operates in the right of establishment or in the freedom to provide services, shall comply with the provisions applicable in that Member State. (7) The insurance intermediary shall, respectively, establish a file in which it includes the relevant document or documents agreed between it and the insurance service user and governing the rights and obligations of the parties and other conditions under which it will provide services to the user. (8) The insurance intermediary shall provide the insurance intermediary, respectively, with appropriate reports on the services provided on a durable medium to the insurance user. Those reports shall include periodic presentation of information, at least once a year, to the user, which is consistent with the type and complexity of the investment insurance products concerned and with the nature of the service provided and, where applicable, shall contain information on transaction-related costs and services performed at the expense of the user. (9) When providing advice on an investment insurance product before the contract is concluded, the insurance intermediary, respectively, shall provide to the consumer of insurance services on a durable medium a statement as to whether the product is suitable, indicating the advice provided and the way in which that advice meets the preferences, objectives and other characteristics of the user. A sentence shall first be applied subject to the conditions of art. 330, para. 1........................................................... (10) Where advice is provided and where the contract is concluded by means of distance communication preventing the prior submission of the statement, whether the product is appropriate, the insurance intermediary may present that statement in a durable medium as soon as the insurance service user is bound by a contract where the following conditions are met: 1. the user of insurance services has consented to receive the statement, whether the product is suitable, immediately after the conclusion of the contract, and 2. the insurance intermediary, respectively, has given the insurance service user the opportunity to delay the conclusion of the contract in order to obtain the statement prior to its conclusion whether the product is suitable. (11) Where advice is provided and where the insurance intermediary, respectively, has informed the insurance user that it will carry out a periodic assessment of whether the product is appropriate, the periodic report shall contain an updated statement of how the investment insurance product meets the preferences, objectives and other characteristics of the user. (12) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/2359 lays down how insurance intermediaries and insurers have to comply with the principles laid down in that Article. (13) Additional requirements relating to the classification of investment products as non-complicated under para. 5 shall be determined by a Commission regulation where it is necessary to ensure compliance with the guidelines of the European Authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the importer for § 59, which becomes § 69 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; secondly, the creation of two new paragraphs Vote 117 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u53	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 345, para. 1 t. 9 the words "the insurance intermediary" shall be replaced by "the intermediary," and after the word "agents" the intermediaries offering insurance products as an additional activity shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, 63 and 64 by importer and shall become § 73, 74 and 75 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u54	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 61, which shall be § 72 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer of paragraphs 62, 63 and 64, which shall become paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 respectively. They voted 115 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 76.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u56	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 65, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become § 76. They voted 121 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u57	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 493a: ? Compensation for property and non-profit damage due to body damage or death Art. 493a (1) In the event of the death of the injured person, compensation shall be due to the injured person for the damage suffered by him or her due to the death of the injured person. In cases of bodily damage to the injured person, compensation shall be due for the damage suffered by him or her. (2) The Commission, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall adopt a joint regulation establishing a methodology for determining the amount of compensation for property and non-material damage resulting from bodily damage to an injured person and determining the amount of compensation for property and non-material damage to an injured person following the death of an injured person. (3) In the event of the death of the injured person, the compensation of the injured persons at the time of death shall be determined once in accordance with the methodology established by the ordinance under para. 2. (4) Where, exceptionally, another person, outside the persons referred to in para. 3 has suffered unnecessary damage as a result of the death of the injured person, since it has created a lasting and deep emotional connection with the deceased, causing him prolonged pain and suffering, which is fair to compensate, the amount of compensation shall be determined according to the methodology established by the ordinance under para. 2. (5) The person responsible for the damage caused to property and property shall owe compensation which shall be determined according to the methodology established by the ordinance under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u58	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am referring to this issue, as this is the issue in the Insurance Code, which has gained public awareness and which we are watching from the submission of the proposal between first and second readings. We are following the opinions that the different groups of actors and other stakeholders presented after the submission of the proposal by colleagues. We believe that this is not the solution to the undoubtedly existing problem, and this is not the way to propose and adopt this solution. First of all, the most elementary problem is our Rules of Procedure............................................. the National Assembly's organization and activities. This proposal does not correspond to the purpose and principles of the major bill, which is now read by the colleague. It contains rules on civil liability, but in no way are they related to this. They are related to the minimum amounts of the insurance amount for the liability of the Member States and are not related to what is currently being offered, namely the benefits paid to the persons. Secondly, our Rules require the most elementary thing between first and second reading the proposal to be reasoned, i.e. motivated. There are no motives for this extremely substantial proposal. You yourself hear what it causes in society and in the media. The importers themselves speak more in the media. There's not a single word of motive. There is no doubt in the submissions made by importers that there is a European Directive. There is a provision of maximum dimensions. We can talk to you about what they are. What size in Europe is talking about the ceiling of benefits. Once there is such a European regulation, our bill enters into another hypothesis of the Rules of Procedure that the importer should have pointed out the reasons, the objectives, the expected results, to apply an analysis that is missing. My opinion is that yes, the issue must be discussed, it is extremely up-to-date and is a continuation of an issue which we discussed in August regarding the company's bankruptcy, when it became clear to all of us the difficulties faced by the insurance companies in Bulgaria and the new realities with the free movement of people, the green cards. Yes, the question is essential, but I don't think that's the way to solve it. Why? Because the Insurance Contract is a contract between equal parties, even though it obliges us to conclude it by law. It has three objectives: one is a compensation for what we are talking about: the amount of compensation. The other is a guarantee and the next is a social function. The balance must be found between the interests of both the insurance and the insured persons, the injured persons, the injured persons of all persons who are present and may be present in this insurance regard. Is this, however, true of the proposed solution? I believe that it is not, and that in this case only the interests of the insurers are safeguarded. Under the civil law in Bulgaria, the Law on Obligations and Contracts, there is a text that: when someone harms someone else with no property damage, it is the court that determines the compensation for justice. Court! In this proposal, the development of a methodology and the removal of the amount of compensation outside the court chamber, the setting of this ceiling and the setting of a methodology for some of the persons who will be entitled to receive it, for me, first of all, except that it violates the rights of citizens, also violates the freedom of the court, and it is not an objective of itself. The freedom of the court to determine compensation is a right and its power, which is thousands of years old in civil law. It is the court, not the actuary, who can see the entire wealth of the relationship and the real suffering of the victims. This proposal ultimately says that the legislator and his protected interests of actuaries... [[the President signals that time has run out]] They have no faith in the court. I'll be done in a second. The proposal is unconstitutional because for one category of people the compensation regime will be one, for another category of people the regime will be another. If I have to be clear to everyone: if Ivan hits Peter with a car over his head, it will be one thing if he hits him with a shovel, the compensation will be completely different and I can argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u60	Please finish, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u61	I'm done. There are also other mandatory insurance. For them, this does not exist as a prediction. After me, you may say now that this is the final "If we do not accept this text, we will increase the contributions that people will pay for the compulsory insurance."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You have greatly exceeded the time assigned to you by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u63	Tell us the reasons why this is going to happen. Tell me why!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u64	Finish, please, Mr. Milkov. [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Milkov, don't abuse me, please. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[The National Representative Christian Vigenin wants the floor for a reply.]] I didn't see any lines, so we moved on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u65	You're not looking this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u66	I'm going to ask you to make a request on time and more decisively. Here you are, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Milkov, you have not made clear enough why we should vote against this proposal. I'm asking you to be a little clearer in your arguments, because... Moreover, much of the colleagues on the right were talking and not listening all the time. Maybe you should give them a chance. [[GERB noise and lines]] hear in a little more detail what it's all about. I know they think they can do anything and know this, of course, is coming to an end, but let us, as opposition, help them rule a little better. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u68	Any other lines? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Milkov, almost academically, I would say, was your speech. However, I will not agree with part of it and the part that this proposal almost introduces something unique, unseen and unheard of. There are other countries, I think you know that very well. I assume that you have done a comparatively legal study on how the issue of insurance benefits has been resolved, including for non-essential damages, not at all, and only for compensations for non-material damage under the general civil law, and only for, in general, without concentrating on benefits under insurance contracts. In many other countries, there are precise limits on compensation for non-material damage and, to the best of my knowledge, there are similar methodologies available in this proposal. Let's just say that there's almost nothing available here that's unseen, unheard of and unfamiliar in practice that I can't accept. There is no way to accept that the conditions under which unauthorised damage occurs should not be taken into account. In this case, we must take into account, however, that it is an insurance contract and a relationship arising from it, and not an unlawful disability in principle and that we apply general principles to a particular case. I think that we need to take the best that exists in other legal systems as well as, as is said popularly, there is no need to find the hot water in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u71	My fellow Member, I understand that Mr Vigenin had the task of giving you three more minutes to continue your speech using the possibilities of the Rules and the procedure. However, I would ask you in your duplicate to try to distinguish the problems of a Green Card that you will probably be talking about, since you have reached that point, and their possible attitude, finding a place in the amount of the premium, and the problem that we are talking about right now, and the problem that I have proposed, namely the problem of expanding the circle of persons who are entitled to receive compensation for their pain and suffering, non-material benefits, which are already a fact as claims on their part and as a decision of the court, and not to confuse the problems of insurance, because it will be incorrect and I think that you as a lawyer should not allow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u73	Dear colleagues, it is not for me to distinguish. In August, we were at an emergency meeting, and I started backwards, and the Prime Minister was here, and we talked about the insurance companies. Yesterday, I read the transcript from this session. It's good to see her. The problem was said at the time about the amount of payments that we make, I speak Bulgarian insurance companies, about the accident and damaged people abroad there are no five thousand leva. There are no benefits there! After all, what I didn't want to say, I will tell you because I started backwards is this: yes, you will accept a restriction, you will adopt a methodology and we will limit ourselves as a society. Why? Because when someone travels and hits someone in Belgium, there will be no such limitation there and the size of the directive, a colleague, are completely different much more. By limiting the possibility for Bulgarian relatives to seek compensation, we will free the insurance company to fulfil these obligations. This is extremely important! Second, claims were brought. Well, colleague, you're a lawyer. They've been made claims, so let's make them known. The court says which request is justified, what is not justified, of the uninjured harm will not sentence him. The high suit he can claim as much as he wants, the court will not sentence the third cousin as much as the husband or children is speculatively speaking. How much was the amount of the court's awards, the average amount of compensation awarded by the court? Yeah, because they were for the closest relatives. Now that they are a second, third cousin or person claiming to be damaged, the court has always had that freedom to rule. Right now you want the pain and suffering to transform them into a methodology that... Again I will reply to my colleague: Id quadr plerumque fit to you is quite scientific. I cannot listen to arguments that someone somewhere has done something because we are the National Assembly of Bulgaria and we have to decide what is best for the Bulgarian society. The real problem is what the microphones have put out about, I'm finally going to say it because of my colleague Vigenin's first line. The real problem is that the Bulgarian insurance companies are leaking out amounts. There's going to be money to pay benefits abroad, and they said it, I didn't invent it. I didn't work as an insurance man. It's been in the transcription since August. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now that's what I missed. Tell people the real reason why they'll get less and pay more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u74	Your time is up, dear Mr. Milkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u75	Well, you can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u76	Statements? [[The National Representative Christian Vigenin wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please take your part, because in the gym you really just can't work properly. You colleagues from GERB [[GERB noise and lines]] You want us to participate in Parliament's work, and at the same time, when one of us speaks here, you talk on the phone, you talk to each other, you yell. The only one who listened to Mr. Milkov's speech was Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, with some annoyance. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Still, please. [[GERB noise and lines]] Mr. Chairman, to put order in the Chamber and colleagues, despite their reluctance to listen to any arguments from the BSP, at least be a little quieter. If you want to have bilateral conversations, do it outside the room. This is at least disrespect for the National Assembly and disrespect for the opposition. Stop yelling at me! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u78	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Tsonev. [[People representatives from GERB and from BSP for Bulgaria are exchanging lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The problem that we are debating must go beyond the level of my use of this old cliché of populism and enter into a slightly more professional analysis. Of course, colleagues who have spoken from a legal point of view are right at least in most of their arguments. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] More of the arguments were right, Mrs. Stoyanova. There are other arguments here that are more important than these. For example, what happens to new claims in terms of insurance reserves? I would like to say in advance that I hope that there will be no discrepancy here, that the purpose of this bill is to introduce some order, to create conditions so that the insurance is not raised, because people are protesting against it. They want the level to stay at least the same. What happens when the new claims are filed? They've already got them, they said how much over 100 and so on, the total amount is 250 million. Do you know what happens in terms of reserves? Instantly against any claim, every insurance company is obliged to raise reserves, it doesn't matter what the court says. By the time the court says it, he's promoting reserves of that value, whatever the claim is. By probing these reserves, and they must be from the capital at that from equity, so that the capital balance does not break, the cost of the insurance goes up and there is no other place for this money to come from. What do we do when we don't introduce such regulation? We tell people this is the direct route, the highway to raise the insurance premium. No, we don't. We save it and we stand here in the plane of: "Don't protect the insurance company! " - Well, we don't protect the insurance company! A few hours of meeting in the Budget Committee in the presence of a bunch of experts, lawyers and so on, and finally you know what the comments were that the President of the Commission, that my mercy and so-and so-and so were the lawyers of the insurance companies. No! We're people's lawyers! This needs to be made clear. If the level of responsibility is unlimited, if the level of responsibility is as it is in Europe, the insurance premium will be as it is in Europe. Just so you know, colleagues, the lowest insurance premium in Europe is at least twice as high as the one in Bulgaria. However, the level of responsibility is the same. Well, let's tell that to people in a straight text! Here, I'm trying to do this. That is, if we do not want there to be a methodology, if we do not want there to be some regulation at least for those who are yet to be brought back on a five-year basis, we must tell people that reserves will be made against this and those reserves and provisions will have to come from somewhere. They will come from a new rise in insurance, so that the capital balance can be respected and there is a way to set aside these reserves. Does it seem simpler and clearer now? Let us really do it professionally when we weigh all of us for and against. Here I address GERB: where is the C.F.R.? This work had to be done by the Financial Supervision Commission all these months. I strongly object on behalf of my parliamentary group, and I said it in the Budget and Finance Committee, and you will not throw the problem here in Parliament. Whatever regulatory problem arises and it is thrown into parliament. All right, then let the parliament set up a committee to regulate financial supervision. There are all the mechanisms and the laws and regulations, this problem to be solved by acts of the Financial Supervision Commission, not people to think that these things depended on the MPs. No, they don't depend if the regulators do their job. All this time, since this problem has been going on, at least since it became public knowledge of the bankruptcy of Olympik, I ask: where is the President of the Commission? The media isn't even there, and there goes the spokesperson of the Commission. Please, colleagues from GERB, if someone does not want to do their job, there are other things they can do. Let us not be thrown here the hot potato because it became the very hot potatoes in the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u81	Mr. Tsonev, I'm making a line because I don't agree with three of the things you said. The first thing you said was that your colleague had good legal arguments. I don't agree with that. Perhaps some of them did, but here he said that the directive does not place ceilings or place very high ceilings. That is not true, because the directive and the ceilings it sets are indeed huge. EUR is for property damage and for bodily damage, there is no mention of any unnecessary damage. My second disagreement with you, Mr. Tsonev, is that you said that the level of responsibility in Europe is twice as high. Yes, that is exactly how the demand level is twice as high as the Bulgarian level, but you said that the benefits are the same. No, they're not the same, Mr. Tsonev. For example, one Germany does not pay compensation at all for non-material damage and the average benefits paid in Europe for non-essential damage, Mr. Tsonev, are 25, up to 30 thousand. Euros. In Bulgaria, the average price for the last five years for non-material damage is 50 thousand. Euros and it grows. The third one I disagree with. You said that if we didn't accept these texts now, the insurance company would have to promote 250 million. No, Mr. Tsonev, they have to promote 500 million. I'll tell you why. Because what you read in the Financial Supervision Commission's letter and what its Vice-President told the Commission is the figure 250 million, but it is reduced by a 50% ratio. These are assumptions that all claims will be reduced through the court by 50%. If the man asks for 200,000, the court will sentence him 100,000 or so. However, unfortunately, the court's practice speaks differently. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u82	Any other lines? The line, Mr. Notev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev, you have called on us to tell the truth to the Bulgarian citizens and in the reply I am referring to these words of yours, and then I will make a statement. Let's tell the truth to the end. If the measures were to be stepped up and the benefits were to be maintained in the nearest round, if this practice continued, the insurers would not be able to promote or pay the benefits in real terms. However, we are not right when we say that we will limit the level of benefits Second-hand cars can buy, import and manage. There is no second-hand insurance in the European Union and no free travel regime for Bulgarian citizens. We will be obliged to pay the full amount, which is also awarded to the citizens of the European Union, where the prices of politics and benefits are quite different. Let us also tell the truth to the Bulgarian citizens about accidents that occurred here in the country. They will receive compensation up to BGN 5000, as mentioned in the transitional provisions, but the top will have to pay out of their pocket - neither the one to receive which is damaged is guaranteed that there will be a debtor who is solvent, nor the one who controls the car will be relieved that he will have to pay plus those BGN 5000. yet, let's say, 20, 30, 40, 50 as the court sentences, because with this methodology we cannot derogate general principles of law. The Law on Obligations and Contracts shall act, the principle of justice........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 52 works, and the court will obviously be governed by these age-old rules. They're not made up here now. The methodology can't protect us from this. In other words, the truth is that we, by adopting these rules, seem to be in line with the interest of cheap insurance, but this insurance is unfit to fulfil its purpose, which is why there is a responsibility for the car driver and it is compulsory. I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for the lines, not for anything else, but because they are in the same direction that I was talking about, too, that there is a problem that needs to be solved. This problem must first be explained to Bulgarian citizens and, secondly, we must ask the regulator to make it possible to regulate all these relationships according to European practice and not only according to European norms and requirements. I absolutely agree with what Mrs. Stoyanova said about provisions. More than that. Another fact in this direction is that since the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation came out, Bulgarian insurers have started to refuse their reinsurance in large companies abroad and without reinsurance there is no risk sharing. Here we come back to the same, Mr. Notev, that there is no one to cover the damage when there is no reinsurance. Ask the Bulgarian insurance companies I address to the C.F.R.S.: do they already have any cancellations on reinsurance contracts in large companies abroad and with whom will they share the risk of the Bulgarian citizens? So this is in the same direction we're talking about. Because here I heard Mr. Notev speaking, from his colleagues on the left: No, we're not saving the insurance company. We're trying to explain. If an insurance company fails, who takes the risks of insurance? Who?! The Guarantee Fund takes over them and then the state, as is done with Olympik. The people are in line and they want the government to take over. These relations must be regulated in such a way that absolutely all the risks to which the liability is valid are normal benefits, the benefits must correspond to the level of the insurance premium and so on. As for the claim that in Europe they are higher, yes, I agree. I agree with the higher levels of property, which is even more stressful.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u86	They're lower.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u87	No, property isn't lower. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] No, they're not lower, but it doesn't matter. The important thing is that the direction is this: in order to regulate these relationships, you need to find a way for the insurance premium to cover all events. Don't suggest untruths to people. Don't insinuate untruths! This has to happen, and I think the regulator has to do it. If any changes in legislation are needed, let them give them to us, let them be justified and made them. That's my call.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. A statement. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u89	My fellow Members, I will tell you what is the proposal that everyone here is speaking about. The proposal in this article, which we will shortly vote on, is to develop a methodology. The methodology will be developed jointly with the Commission, the Guarantee Fund, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This methodology will provide criteria and indicators, will allow for uniform application and calculation of benefits both in the case of property and in the case of non-property benefits resulting from road accidents. Why is this methodology necessary? Firstly, I would say that such a methodology exists in more than half of the European countries, and it is necessary to have justice in the first place, in the award of the benefits, and, secondly, people to understand that they must seek property benefits, as insurance companies in Europe pay, and which can be much greater than those non-material benefits that we are now talking about here. Therefore, in Europe, non-property benefits are so much smaller than ours, because there people pay property, but they have clear criteria that show how much the injured person has lost in the traffic accident. This methodology is also necessary because at the moment the practice of the court is extremely diverse. The analysis of the Supreme Court's decisions in the past years for the narrow circle of persons receiving compensation for non-financial liability shows that the non-financial liability of parents and children varies from 5000 to 300,000. This is the assessment in monetary terms of the pain and suffering of these people. If there is no methodology to say in a uniform way to calculate them for different cases, how will we continue this way? What, however, apart from the methodology and our proposal, my proposal, was to put a ceiling of up to 5000 BGN. the compensation for non-material damage in the event of death on the road, to the distant relatives of brothers, sisters, grandmothers, nephews and non-family who were emotionally involved with the victim? They've already said a few numbers here. I must tell you that, by the end of the year, insurers should make provisions for all their claims. The claims made to the insurance companies at the moment in just three months are over 100 million. lv. What Mr. Tsonev talked about and I corrected it, and what is according to the Financial Supervision Commission methodology, they must make provisions of at least 250 million to 500 million by the end of the year. And these provisions are pure steam, I speak economically, and it needs to be financed from somewhere. There are two sources of funding "the one and the normal one, which is recorded in the Insurance Code, is the reinsurance premium. Only we don't want our insurance premium to increase double and triple. By adopting this proposal, it will not be increased at all, not only double and triple, it will not be increased at all, because, with the ruling of June of the Supreme Court, the circle of persons entitled to property benefits is extended. We have heard arguments that, you see, this interpretive decision must proceed in the future and the Supreme Court will correct it in this direction. Yes, but here I have five decisions of the Supreme Court of Cassation that award compensations to the extended circle of persons. I do not deny their right to claim compensation for the fact that a grandchild or grandchild, as is the case I am talking about, that a brother or sister has died and this has caused a certain emotional crisis in the one that has remained. However, at the same time, as the colleague on the left said, we must look for the balance between the people to be compensated and between what the Bulgarian motorist And that, in my opinion, is the balance now. But I want to tell you that this will act temporarily until the adoption and introduction of the methodology that will give the criteria for calculating the normal amount of this insurance. Of course, if a child has lost his parent on the road, he is entitled to compensation. It is currently seeking non-financial compensation and the amount of such non-financial compensation is determined subjectively by the specific composition of the court. But if this child is looking for property compensation, he can get a lot more for alimony by the end of his age, for alimony, if he is a student or studying. However, this is not done in Bulgaria because there are no criteria to do and because the lawyers who care about these people are pushing towards the irreplaceable responsibility, which is very easy to prove with two testimony.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u91	Mr. Chairman, before I make a line to Mrs. Stoyanova, I pay attention to you. I apologized to you when I was running out of time. I'm also asking your colleagues from the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u92	You can't reconcile the two. I'm writing to you right now that you're not making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u93	...with one minute's delay in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u94	You too. If we look at your basic statement... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u95	That he's got more than one...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u96	Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u97	That more than one second of the countries in Europe have a methodology... I am strongly opposed to the methodology, I am telling you. It is normal for your consciousness, your experience, everything that you are, to push towards methodology, to respect it, but all that I am is looking at the things that you keep in the folders stories alive, human. And that's why we can't get our positions together right now. There's no way this methodology, that someone broke into one second of the states and would break through here, in some way, we could say good luck and accept it. A big mistake would be this methodology. Grandma was, well, hundreds of thousands of people are abroad and the kids are living with their grandmothers right now, fact. Talk to the principal of a school how many of the kids go to school and they're raised by grandparents! And you're going to say that this child, when the grandmother who was hit by a car died, will receive £5000.? Yes, you will say it! And why up to £5000.? Why death from a traffic accident costs 5,000 leva, and death, as I told you, but you passed it, with a shovel on the head of the same person, wouldn't cost the same person 5000 leva.? Why, why is that thing? This is a provision that contradicts the Constitution and is a different interpretation. The court, and this will tell you every lawyer, has this right supposed powers, experience and the people there are chosen, it is the black box to judge how close one person is to another person and to appreciate the invaluable pain and suffering. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's no way the actuaries, the accountants, can decide: this grief is on point 18, that pain is on point 12. I'm against methodology! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Second line? Is there another line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u99	Indeed, my life experience and your life experience, leading to the conclusions that you and I in the stands have said, will clearly not meet. But I want you to clearly and categorically hear my colleagues in the room and all those cameras that are currently filming and watching. I made this proposal because I believe that this is the balance and possible compromise today so that 3 million Bulgarian motorists do not receive a double and triple increase in civil liability! That's why we're looking for this balance. And if this House today does not accept my proposal, rejects what is written in the report, rejects the limit, the ceiling of the wide circle of persons outside spouses, outside children and parents, raised and raised in the text, that is, when they are viewed by grandmothers or aunts, outside this circle, if you reject the ceiling to BGN 5000, which is awarded, I guarantee you that by the end of the year we will have an increase in civil liability of at least double. So here, in this room, we really need to look for balance. I respect what the colleague said, I respect all the parents, all the nieces, all the brothers and sisters of the dead and the dead on the road, I respect their grief, but, unfortunately, it is difficult for us to search for this balance that has no true solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any further comments?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to begin with, on the subject of supporting the proposed amendment, I would like to state my strong support. It is rather an addition to the special law which regulates the matter of insurance in the Insurance Code. I have consciously made and formed this decision of mine. I admit it's a tough decision. It's hard because it has a lot of aspects. Dr. Milkov in part of his reasoning drew some of the possible legal arguments regarding the specifics of the disputes over insurance cases. Dear Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Jablyanov is interfering with my speech, and indeed my colleagues in the right side are also disturbing my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u102	You're right, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, please take your seats, stop talking and give Mr. Kirilov the opportunity to state his opinion!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u103	I let myself because the really complex problem requires a little more attention. Colleagues, this is about principles. The orators have so far commented and stressed that it is about the unnecessary damage suffered by an injured person or his successors. These are not direct and immediate damage. These are the damage that is subjectively caused to a particular individual. They concern his inner life, his inner world. The rule, the classic rule, is that these damages are determined by the court when there is a dispute. Then when there's an argument! I believe that with the proposed amendments in no way affect the possibility of the discretion, to call it interpolation, discretion, the internal conviction of the court to determine the compensation. It was also pointed out that the court in this judgment was absolutely free. He doesn't have any criteria so far. Even now, the court was free. You have seen that we are now considering this because there is an interpretation by the judges of the Civil and Commercial College of the Supreme Court of Cassation. We have been invited, as a matter of fact, the Legal Committee has invited us for an opinion and I have reported to you the invitation of President Lozan Panov for this discussion. We held back at the time. Then we said: well, let the supreme judges say their opinion, if it is unprecedented, outside the lawmaker's will, we will rule as legislator. I ask you, fellow lawyers who are now taking an opinion, our other option was to intervene directly as legislator on the interpretation decision. You are well aware that this matter has been interpreted at least three times by Bulgarian supreme courts twice during the time of socialism, where we do not have this market economy, we do not have the complex complexity of relations, we do not have the freedom to claim freedom. Yet the socialist Supreme Court has changed its practice twice. I will not comment on why the current Supreme Court has liberalized, but has liberalized. He will face the avalanche of deeds. As time has progressed, many things I would like to say on this subject, I will only conclude with this: I thank my colleagues from the Committee on Budget and Finance for seeking an adequate solution in the area of their matter. I would also say why this decision cannot be achieved by the Financial Supervision Commission, but I will get out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I think that this determination you have for work is useful, but at 11:30 was the break that you were supposed to give. There's a break at 11:30. People's representatives have other work to do not for lunch, but I see that you are also hungry colleagues from GERB. So we suggest that you take your break in class. There are people we need to meet. What now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u106	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. According to the rules, we have no rest even as an idea, but whether or not there will be an interruption, the President decides, but at the request. So we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u107	What vacation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u108	Next statement, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perfectly correct Mrs. Menda Stoyanova described the issue as an unanswered question. There were perfectly true concerns that we are trying to solve a matter that has its roots deep and in time. In support of this, I will only say that the interpretive decision that stirred up the spirits and the caselaw is in a case which was initiated in 2016. The decision is new, but the case, the questions put to the supreme judges who examined it in plenary, were quite a long time ago. I would like to say that there has been enough time for all who have a professional interest and an obligation to resolve these issues, to pay attention to them and not now, in these proposals, to have occasion to discuss a transitional period which is yet to be discussed by the committee and to adopt a methodology established by a regulation. All the ambiguity that is introduced with these texts creates a sense of restlessness and a possible unfair solution to the relationship taken on the plane of insurance law. What I would also like to mention is that Mr. Kirilov defined the complexity of the issue in terms of law, and I think that this proposal should have its place in the Commission's legal agenda, we should have ruled there. One-sided is the view of colleagues from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Finally, to draw attention to colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group, we faced an atypical situation in which, on the occasion of the two-read proposal, the leader of GERB turned to his MPs. I remind you of that circumstance. Somehow this address has been quieted down and it's gone unanswered, and maybe now is the time to give it up. Mr. Borisov urged the MPs not to support this proposal before a broad public discussion, Mrs. Stoyanova. In the same context of the Round Table that you have called, I have taken the liberty of congratulating you for putting your finger in the wound, for raising this issue, which is smoldering and has been unsolved for years, as I have already said, but so far. I said that we should have the courage and courage to discuss it fully and to solve something that is in context and in harmony with what the Prime Minister proposed. I don't think we're ready to make that decision right now. I would like to draw the attention of the Members of the National Assembly to a large extent that the Commission's proposal is very different from what was originally tabled on behalf of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Many compromises and concessions have been made by all those involved in this problem. Here in brackets only I want to clear those who are injured citizens, citizens who are debtors of damage caused by them, and insurers. When relations and expectations are involved that lawyers have a direct interest, I would like to distance myself from this reading of the situation, as far as lawyers represent foreign interests, their fees, payments to them are part of the payments or non-payments from the main entities I have already mentioned. In this sense, the decisions had to be made by the people who attended this Round Table, Mrs. Stoyanova, and I do not like and do not like the proposal the general principle of justice under art. 52 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts to be replaced by the texts of the proposed art. 493, which by some own criterion define the amount of compensation: one had the right to receive, another had the obligation to pay, but what changed in the essence of the obligation to repay the damage caused guilty? Nothing! This is technological preparation for the next texts of the Transitional Regulations, where we are already talking about size. We say, "Someone answers up to 5,000." lv. I assure you, and we have heard this at the Round Table, Mrs. Stoyanova, that the Bulgarian court will not be guided by a methodology and by a regulation............................................................................................ and we are not required for him by the citizens who drives........................................................................................................................................... We want to be calm behind the wheel of our cars to know that, God forbid, if it happens, there is someone to pay for us. This is the big breakthrough in this project. We will refrain from supporting this project. I am referring to the MPs from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. A line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u111	Dear Mr. Notev, dear colleagues! I understand Mr. Notev's statement, he's a lawyer, I'm an economist, and we can't meet again. Only I want to say something that I'm going to ask Mr. Notev to confirm or not. I understand that the Ataka Party, part of the United Patriarchs, will not support this proposal. Does it mean that the Attack Party in the part that will not support this proposal actually voted to raise the insurance premium double or triple? Actuarial estimates will show it to 3 million Bulgarian motorists by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u113	Ms. Stoyanova, Ataka Party does not support the mechanical increase in insurance premiums. At the same Round Table, I put very precisely and clearly the emphasis on the spending part of this national capital, which Bulgarian insurers have in common and I said that when numerous compensations are paid for numerous accidents, for numerous damages, of course, the cost is enormous for the state, and I asked why do we not focus on reducing the number of road accidents and we are record makers in Europe for this? This one, first. Secondly, if we need to move to a new system of assessment of damage, and obviously we must, and obviously we must, if a methodology is adopted, which is also obviously necessary, it should not be done at the expense of the most vulnerable part of society... those who are already really involved in the relationship, those who have suffered and are about to be compensated for damages, suddenly only by 5 thousand. BGN, or those who were counting on someone to pay for them, but now it turns out they won't pay because someone didn't do their job in time. I've already pointed out 2016, since when these questions were supposed to stand sharp, with all the weight on the table. This makes Ataka Party and we say that we are in defence of the Bulgarian citizens, regardless of the chance of which of the countries in these relations will put them. We urge him not to rush the decision. We abstain, we do not vote against. We have said that we are in agreement, including with the call of the party leader GERB, I have recalled it already, and I repeat this. We find it reasonable to offer such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Any other speeches? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 77 text in accordance with the Commission's proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 101, against 15, abstention 8. The offer with the reception.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u115	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 499 para. 1 is amended as In the event of death or bodily damage of natural persons, the compensation shall be determined in accordance with art. 493a by the insurance officer of the guilty driver or by court order. Under § 66, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 79, and shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. Under § 67, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 80. Under § 68, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 523 is created. 4. Where funding of the activities of the Guarantee Fund is required for the implementation of contracts under art. 519 para. 2, a decision of the Committee on a proposal of the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund shall determine the necessary budget or the amount and duration of the temporary use of funds under art. 521 B.C.E. 1, t. 1 or 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u116	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the following texts: the creation of a new § 78 under the Commission proposal; § 66, which becomes § 79 with the editorial amendments of the Commission; § 67, which becomes § 80, and § 68, which becomes § 81. They voted 105 MPs: 94, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 82: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 s 3 are amended as follows: Under the terms of this Code, claims under compulsory insurance shall be guaranteed for the liability of the motorists, compulsory insurance for passengers and insurance under Section I of Annex 1 in the event of bankruptcy of: 1. insurance company with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. a branch of a third-country insurance company registered in the Republic of Bulgaria only for the activities carried out through the branch in the country. (2) The takings under para. 1 shall be guaranteed as follows: 1. of all injured persons under compulsory insurance........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. of one insurance person referred to in Section I of Annex No 1 in one insurance company, regardless of the number of claims and the amount of them total up to 196 000 BGN.; claims on the person shall be deemed to be claims under the insurance contract, including redemptions and repayments of the insurance premium under the insurance contract which has not been concluded or entered into force or upon early termination of the insurance contract. (3) The claims of the persons for interest for the delay of the insurance company under the required claims under para. 2 shall not be guaranteed. 2. Alinea 4 is canceled. 3. The creation of para. 6: In cases of payment by the Bureau under art. 506 in the system "Zelen card" as a guarantee bureau instead of an insurance company under para. 1 which is withdrawn from a licence for insurance events outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under compulsory insurance of motorists, the Bureau shall be charged to the Guarantee Fund for any payment made by the Bureau after the date of the decision of the Commission to withdraw the insurance company's licence, provided that within 60 days of the request for reimbursement of the relevant amount from the Bureau to the insurer, the latter has not repaid that amount to the Bureau or the Bureau has not been satisfied for the payment made by it through the bank guarantee under art. 508, para. 2 or insurance contracts of the insurance or of the bureau. The guarantee fund shall refund to the Bureau of the Guarantee Fund the amount due by the insurer on the request for reimbursement within 15 days of the date on which the claim is lodged with the Guarantee Fund. After payment by the Guarantee Fund, it enters into the rights of the Bureau as a satisfied creditor. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 71, 72, 73, 74, which shall become paragraphs 84, 85, 86 and 87 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u118	So far, these are six texts. Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the Commission's version of § 69, which shall become § 82; and paragraphs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 83 to 87 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u119	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 75, which shall become § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4 the words "or an insurance agent' shall be replaced by an insurance agent or an insurance intermediary as an ancillary activity. 2. In para. 6 and 7 words in the order of art. 294, para. The following shall be replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the 3. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: In the case of an insurance intermediary, including an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity, a legal person or a sole trader that confers rights on a person who is not his employee and an insurance agent, including an insurance intermediary offering insurance products as an ancillary activity which is a natural person who grants rights to another person to engage in the sale of insurance products and the collection of insurance premiums or contributions, including by providing him access to an insurance information system or by providing him with a form for the issue of a policy or for the collection of a premium or contribution, the following shall be required: 1. fine from 2000 to 10 000 lv. For a natural person; 2. Financial sanction from 5000 to 50 000 leva. For a legal person or a sole trader. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 76, which becomes § 89, by proposing para. 1 and 2 to be amended as follows: In the case of distribution of an investment insurance product, an insurance or insurance intermediary has committed a breach of the provisions of art. 146, para. Art. 5, Art. 8, Art. Art. 149 "151," Art. 149 288, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 288a, 291, 299a, 324, 325, 325a, 330, 333 or Chapter 30th, including the acts referred to in art. 340, t. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 342, para. 12 of the insurance or intermediary must: 1. fine from 2,500 to 1,400 000 lv. For a natural person; 2. a penalty of 20 000 to 10 000 000 leva. For a legal person or a sole trader. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 1, t. 1 is from 5,000 to 1,400,000 BGN, and by para. 1, t. 2 - from 40,000 to 10 000 000 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 91. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 79, which shall become § 92: ................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In §1: (a) c. 10 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) in which the insurance intermediary is resident, the Member State where the insurance intermediary is located, and if, according to its national legislation, it does not have a registered office, the Member State in which its head office is located; in respect of persons travelling daily between the Member State of their residence and the Member State in which they carry out their distribution activities, that is to say their Member State of residence, the Member State of origin and registration is the Member State of residence; (b) point 11 is amended as follows: "11." The host Member State shall be the Member State other than the home Member State: (a) where the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has a branch or provides services; for the insurance, the Member State of the service is the Member State in which the risk is located where the risk is covered by an insurer or by a branch located in another Member State; (b) where the insurance, reinsurance or ancillary insurance intermediary respectively has a permanent presence or establishment or provides services; (c) point 13 is amended as follows: "13." The term "Securities Account" means a Reportable Person that is a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person, a Reportable Person or a Reportable Person. (d) c. 32 After the words the user to store the information is added to the address addressed to him personally. (e) create a t. 55: It's 55. The request shall be made available to the insurance service user at his request or at the initiative of the insurance distributor in relation to one or more insurance contracts. 2. In § 4: (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The minimum dimensions of art. 305, para. Art. 1, art. 306, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 316, para. 2 shall be updated by regulations of the European Commission adopted on the basis and within the time limits laid down in art. 10 (7) of Directive (EU) 2016/97. The insurance amount for compulsory insurance under art. 305, para. Art. 1, respectively 316, para. 2 is the amount in force under the relevant Regulation of the European Commission at the date of occurrence of the insurance event, unless the amount of the insurance amount entered in the insurance policy is higher. (b) in para. 4 words................................................................................. 1.. 3.. are replaced 3. In § 7 are created t. 9 and 10: Nine. Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products (OJ L 26/19 of 2 February 2016.). 10. Directive (EU) 2018/411 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2016/97 as regards the date of application of Member States' transposition measures (OB, L 76/28 of 19 March 2018).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u120	Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the following texts: the version of § 75, which becomes § 88; the text of the importer for § 76, which becomes § 89, with the editorial amendments by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 77, which becomes § 90; the text of the importer for § 78, which becomes § 91; the version of the Commission for the text of § 79, which becomes § 92. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 81, which shall become § 94: ............................................................................... In the other texts of the code, the words "the register of commerce' shall be replaced by "the register of trade' and "the register of non-profit entities'. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 95: .................................................................................. Until the entry into force of the Regulation on the validation of the methodology under art. 493a, para. 2 determining the amount of benefits for the victims and for the injured persons under art. 493a, para. 3 for property and non-material damage due to bodily injury, respectively death of the victim, including events prior to the entry into force of this law, the current order shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u122	That's it. Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote: the text of the importer for § 80, which becomes § 93; the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 81, which becomes § 94; the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the creation of § 95 on a proposal from the Commission, with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u123	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ (1) Until the entry into force of the Regulation on the validation of the methodology under art. 493a, para. 2, the compensation for the damage suffered by the persons referred to in Article 2. 493a, para. 4 is set in the amount of up to 5 000 BGN. (2) Until the entry into force of the Regulation on the validation of the methodology under art. 493a, para. 2, the person responsible for the damage caused to the persons referred to in Article 2. 493a, para. 4, he owes compensation in the size of para. 1. (3) The amount of compensation for the damage suffered by the persons referred to in art. 493a, para. 4 for the claims made by them in the period from 21 June 2018 until the entry into force of this law shall be determined by para. 1 such persons may withdraw their claims without the consent of the defendant and shall not be liable for the costs of the terminated part of the claim. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 82, which shall become § 97: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says that the Bible is true. " (1) Each insurance broker shall, by 23 February 2019, submit to the Commission an up-to-date list of members of its management body designated by a decision of an authority competent under the applicable law and the broker's instrument of incorporation to be responsible for and to manage the insurance distribution activity, and shall also apply the relevant decision, to persons in the management position of the broker responsible for carrying out the insurance distribution activities and to their employees directly engaged in the distribution of insurance products, together with a declaration that all specified persons comply with the requirements of art. 303, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 304, para. 1 to perform their tasks and duties accurately. Where the insurance broker has not appointed one or more persons from his management body to be responsible for and to manage the insurance distribution activity, the declaration shall apply to all members of his management body. (2) By 23 February 2019, each insurance undertaking shall submit to the Commission an up-to-date list of its insurance agents, as well as to the members of the management bodies of the insurance agents, the legal persons designated by a decision of an authority competent under the applicable law and the founding act of the agent, to be responsible for and to manage the insurance distribution activity, and to apply a decision of the management body, to the persons in charge of the insurance agent responsible for carrying out the insurance distribution activities, and to the employees of the insurance agents, single traders and legal persons directly engaged in the insurance distribution activity. The presentation of the list shall be considered as verification that all designated persons meet the requirements for appropriate knowledge and skills within the meaning of art. 316, para. 1 to perform their tasks and duties accurately. Where an insurance agent has not appointed one or more persons from its management body to be responsible for and to manage the insurance distribution activity, the certification shall apply to all members of its management body. In the term by sentence, first the insurance agents under art. 319, para. The second sentence shall provide a declaration of the circumstances referred to in the first sentence on its own. (3) By 23 February 2019 the insurers shall submit to the Commission an up-to-date list of intermediaries offering insurance products as an ancillary activity subject to registration and of intermediaries under art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 with which they have a contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u124	Please, this is it. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u125	Dear Mr. Hristov, I would like to make a proposal: in § 97 of the Commission Report, in para. 1 the text. "23 February 2019" shall be replaced by the text "31 December 2019.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the period within which each insurance broker shall submit to the Commission a list of members who have been trained and meet the requirements. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Two texts were read with changes. My statement is on the first read § 96. This time I'll be brief. A ceiling of 5000 BGN is available. My question is: in the absence of arguments, as our rules say, in the absence of reasons why it is 5000 BGN.? We have not received an answer to the three obstacles I have told you to adopt this bill at all, because it is contrary to our rules. Why 5000 leva?? Why not 5200 BGN, why not 6000 BGN?? I don't know. And the last paragraph. It is envisaged that those who withdraw a claim already filed in court, which is more than 5000 BGN, persons who have filed cases that are over 5000 BGN, should be entitled to withdraw the part over 5000 BGN without due expenses to the other party. The text is not perfect at all, because individuals should not withdraw, but give up this part of the claim because their right to cease to exist. You are strictly procedurally touching the civil process, at the moment it is a procedural claim...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... When you're legally disbarred and you can't prosecute over 5,000, you don't have to withdraw it, you have to give it up. Now it will happen that if the person withdraws from a claim, he will owe costs for the part over 5000 BGN. The text touches in the civil trial. Again: the matter in the civil process required a discussion that did not take place, and in this form will only cause problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there lines? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. Vote 87 MPs: 73 against 7, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I now put two texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 96, in accordance with the Commission's text; and the version proposed by the Commission, of § 82, which becomes § 97. I would like to remind you that he's already with the editorial amendment. Vote 89 MPs: 72 against 7, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u129	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83 which shall become § 98. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 84 the proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 99: ......... 99..................................................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 2 the words "and insurance agents' shall be replaced by the insurance agents and insurance intermediaries as an ancillary activity. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 6 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 23 the words shall be replaced by collaborators and information exchanged, and after the words "the EFTA Surveillance Authority', a comma shall be placed and added to it, taking decisions on the conclusion of cooperation and exchange of information agreements. (b) in para. 7 after the words. 1, t. In the case of a merger, infusion, separation, separation and voluntary termination of the parties concerned, 5 and 6 shall be added. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 para. 4 and 5 are amended as follows: All employees shall submit a declaration that they do not have the circumstances under para. 3 as the fact of para. 3, p. 1 shall be established in a professional capacity. The declaration of incompatibility shall be filed under the terms and conditions of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. (5) All employees, except those holding technical positions, shall submit declarations of property and interests under art. 35 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property within the time limits and under the terms and conditions laid down in it. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 12 the insurance agents and insurance intermediaries shall be replaced by the insurance agents and the insurance intermediaries as an ancillary activity; (b) point 16 is repealed. 6. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1: (a) in Section I: (aa) in item VI, row 17 the words.................................................................................................................... (bb) in item VII, row 5, the words s for each module of the test shall be replaced by the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) in Section II: (aa) Row 35a shall be created in item I: (according to the table in the report) In point IV, a sentence second is created: the person obliged to pay the fee under item I, row 35a is the intermediary offering insurance products as an additional activity, but the fee can also be paid by the insurance provider for which the person is mediating; (c) in Section IV: (aa) in point IV, sentence two, the words VI, row 15 and 17 and item VII, row 5 (bb) in point XI, sentence two, the word The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 85, which shall become § 100: ....... 100........................................................................ In the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business (prom., SG No. ...) in the Annex to art. 9, para. 1, t. 2, c. 2 after the words "RFF', the activity as a re-insurgency is added as a special purpose vehicle for alternative transfer of own funds. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 101: .............................................................................. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Guarantee Fund shall prepare a draft methodology under art. 493a, para. 2 and provides it to the Commission, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 83 which shall become § 98; the version of the Commission for § 84 which shall become § 99; the version of the Commission for § 85 which shall become § 100; and the proposal to create a new § 101 with a text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 6. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u131	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 102: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The regulation under art. 493a, para. 2 shall be adopted within one year of the entry into force of this law. According to § 86 the proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 86, which shall become § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 35 concerning art. 304, para. 3 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new § 102 in accordance with the text of the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 86, which shall become § 103. Vote 94 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted, and with that we have completed the Bill. For the procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose a procedure for extending today's plenary session until the second item of the agenda is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I put to the vote what was made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov procedural proposal. Voted 103 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I propose that a decision be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 27 November 2018, Tuesday, at 1300 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Importer: The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 November 2018. 2. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. Importer: The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 6 November The Commission Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: 88 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a recess. Start of work at 1300 hours according to the adopted agenda. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u135	Honourable Members, in connection with the new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax, adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 259 of 13 November 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, we begin the discussions. Ms. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u136	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 259 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 14 November 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2018 and the reasons for the decree. At a meeting held on 15 November 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined Decree No 259 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by: from the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria The decree and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Emilia Drumeva. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly § 39, item. 6, p. 15, p. 17, p. 23, b. On 7 November 2018, the National Assembly adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax, § 40, § 50 and § 64 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax, adopted by the National Assembly. In his motives, the President disagrees with the provisions of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees on Vehicle Tax, the postponement of the deadline for the reform of the municipal waste fee and the introduction of higher tax rates for residential properties in settlements and settlements on the Resort List in the Republic of Bulgaria and changes in the Customs Act. The President points out that the regulations adopted on vehicle tax have abolished the existing tax reductions. Taking into account the standard of living of the Bulgarian citizens, the President considers that the tax burden adopted by the law is not in line with the level of the income of the citizens, which is in violation of art. 60, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which taxes must be consistent with the income and property of the citizens. The President also contests the change in § 39, t. 23, b. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Points out that the maintenance of the existing practice of charging the household waste charge until 2022 is contrary to a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The President also contests the change introduced by § 39. 6 concerning Art. 22, introducing higher tax rates for residential properties in settlements and settlements from the Resort List in the Republic of Bulgaria. The President points out that in this case it is a mixture of elements of income with property tax, which is contrary to the practice of the Constitutional Court. The President also contests the change introduced by § 50 and § 64 in the Customs Act, which provides for a structural change in the Customs Agency. The President considers it inadmissible to terminate employees' relationships due to the closure of the administration/enterprise under art. 106, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code. The President also disputes the change in art. 9 of the Customs Act, which provides for the termination of the service of senior civil servants without notice at the discretion of the Director of the Customs Agency, in agreement with the Minister of Finance. In connection with the veto of the President under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax in the Committee on Budget and Finance, written opinions were received from the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Decree and the reasons for it, a discussion was held, where the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and members of the Commission expressed their views. Both the written opinions and the debates showed the following arguments against the President's motives for the veto of the Law: 1. Under § 39, t. 6 on the introduction of higher tax rates for residential properties in the settlements of the Resort List in the Republic of Bulgaria The introduction of higher tax rates for properties in settlements on the Resort List in the Republic of Bulgaria is a measure aimed at avoiding tax evasion and reducing the grey economy. Tax evasion should not be tolerated, but it is necessary to seek a way of fair taxation, which does not allow unfair and damaging taxpayers. 2. Under § 39, t. 15, 17 and § 40 on the vehicle tax The vehicle tax is a property tax which is not related to the use of the vehicle but to its ownership. Accordingly, the change proposed by the Law aims to preserve the nature and purpose of the property tax. In so far as the vehicle tax is related to the ownership of a vehicle, the frequency of its use cannot be the basis for its determination as this does not correspond to the tax theory of property tax. In addition, the use of movable property cannot be established in an adequate and controllable manner for the purposes of determining the tax. With regard to the presence in the vehicle of emission reduction devices, it is found that the reductions existing in tax laws in this direction are not effective in so far as they are mainly used to reduce the tax due, i.e. to use tax relief which cannot be controlled by municipalities. The type of fuel is relevant for the purity of the ambient air and therefore electric vehicles are exempt from tax. With regard to other cars, there is currently no database reflecting the additional type of fuel used by the vehicle, which leads to the inability to determine the amount of tax. On the other hand, if the vehicle is able to operate with dual-fuel, it cannot be controlled what fuel is used. With regard to the expenditure of the collected funds of this tax for environmental purposes, it should be noted that according to art. 17, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act budget receipts are not targeted and serve to cover payments and such a restrictive provision would be contrary to an explicit legal provision, which would put the regulation unconstitutional. The specific effect on the parties concerned of the proposed amendments relating to the vehicle tax could not be determined as it would depend on the rates and tax coefficients chosen by the municipal councils within the limits set by the Law and on the environmental category coefficient to which the cars correspond. It should be noted that a reduction in the tax on the average class of family cars with an environmental category higher than the one held by the average income population is expected. There will be an increase in tax for the oldest and most powerful cars that are unreliable and cause air pollution with harmful emissions, which is fair and socially justified in terms of the damage they cause to society. However, with an increase in the tax on an old car, it will again be at times lower than the tax on newer cars. 3. Under § 39, t. 23, b. On the postponement of the reform of the municipal waste levy The reason for the offer and adoption of such a legislative decision between the first and second voting of the Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act is the possibility of appropriate use of data from the population census and the housing fund in 2021 on the number of users of the services in the property for determining the fee for municipal waste. In this way, the resource allocated to the population and housing census in 2021 will be used, based on the data collected in the census and the data of the floor ownership managers on the number of service users in the property, the municipal administration will be able to determine the number of users by default. This will lead to a reduction of the administrative burden for all debtors. Citizens, business and municipal administration, by exempting the debtors from submitting declarations on the number of users in the property. 4. Under § 50 and § 64, the change in the Customs Act Neither in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, nor in the legislation governing the legislative process, has an explicit prohibition with transitional and final provisions to make changes to other laws. In its decisions, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria advocates the understanding that art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution fix the crucial stages of the procedure to be adopted in the Republic of Bulgaria. Pointing out that the laws are discussed and adopted in two votes, it allows individual provisions to be amended, respectively, to be added to the Bill, and in the course of their discussions in the committees between the first and second votes on the respective bill, and then to be put to the vote in plenary. The amendments to the Customs Act change the organisation of the Agency.. Customs..................................................................................... Therefore, the State administration of the Customs Agency, which performs the duties in connection with the conduct of customs policy, will continue to carry out its legally defined functions. The amendments to the Customs Act provide for relations with employees to be governed under the terms and conditions of art. Art. 87a. 106, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Civil Service, respectively art. Art. 123, Art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code within the defined number of staff of the Customs Agency and in accordance with the defined structure and number of staff of the territorial departments, therefore the arguments for circumventing the safeguard provisions of art. 87a of the Law on the Civil Service and of art. 123 of the Labour Code is not justified. The envisaged changes to the Customs Act in respect of the occurrence and termination of service relations with the senior civil servants concerned shall not affect or violate the constitutional nor shall the principle of state service stabilisation be infringed. The judgment No 11 of 1998 of the Constitutional Court was adopted prior to the entry into force of the Law on the Civil Service Officer when relations with civil servants were governed by an employment contract. By the envisaged amendments to the Customs Act, the provision excluding judicial control of the termination of the service with the listed civil servants is not foreseen and therefore no analogy can be made with the public relations which are governed by the draft Customs Act and those under the normal rule of the Labour Code, which has been declared unconstitutional and could not be applied the reasons of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria in the specific case. After the end of the debates and a vote was held, the Committee on Budget and Finance, with 12 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Corporate Income Tax adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2018 should be re-established.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u137	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I would like to remind you that the time for the debates is based on the general rules of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, once again, we are witnessing how the President of the Republic of Bulgaria shows more sensitivity to the socially weak, shows more concern about respect for the Constitution and the functioning of the state than we as National Assembly, that is, as you as governors, because, unfortunately, everything that is written as motives in the veto is in evidence of what I am saying at the moment. I'll even read you some of the stuff. The state of the vehicles in one country is a projection of the standard of life and an indicator of the existing social divisions in the country. Will anyone oppose what the president says? That is why the problem is finding the right balance to take account of the existing realities and not to prejudice the principle of tax justice.................................. With regard to the household waste charge, the President says: I find it unfair that the time limits for citizens and businesses are always mandatory, regardless of their willingness, and that the time limits for the state are not motivated to postpone. We're all equal before the law, aren't we? We all have to abide by this law, and we all have to abide by the terms of the law, don't we? Or because the state can make its own laws, is it in a more privileged position than the citizens? That's why citizens are treating the state that way right now. With regard to property taxes, this is about different types of taxes. You can see that you have not even understood this in this law, which you adopted at second reading, despite our objections and that the burden depends not only on the value of the property, but also on the way they are used. Not to mention how you are trying to change the manner of independence of civil servants as guarantor of the stability of a state with the attempt to replace the composition of customs in a way that has nothing to do with the Law on the Civil Service or with labour law. The President tells you that the State officials are conceived as lasting, independent of the political changes of the backbone of the state, and this function requires the stability of the service. With the changes you have made, this is exactly what you are violating the stability, independence and are trying to put another revenue agency under political dependence so that revenue may go to political purpose and appropriateness. Unfortunately, honourable rulers, today when considering this very well-founded veto by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Corporate Tax Act, I would like to say that we are witnessing another action of the absurd theater with the title "The Managing against the People." I'll try to argue. You bragged yesterday that you have the right to make any decisions and no one has the right to oppose you because you have been chosen one and a half million citizens - one and a half million and two hundred of GERB, and about three hundred thousand of the United Patriarchs. However, I would like to remind you of some other numbers that you have obviously forgotten, they are from 2016. President Radev was elected by almost two million and a hundred thousand votes, and GERB's candidate in his direct clash with President Radev received one million and two hundred thousand votes. Moreover, I ask if all these million and two hundred thousand for you and three hundred thousand for the patriots today would vote after you promised them that you would not increase the tax burden, but you increased it after you continued to disregard the people's demands, something more, after you called those who protest against you, since yesterday I quote you I quote you, not someone else. And I'm asking you, since you're slaving to the numbers, to this representation of who voted for whom, why don't you consider the 2.1 ratio for the president to 1.2 for you, and consider this veto, because the president clearly expresses the will of most people than they voted for you then and much more than they would vote for you today. Consider this veto, vote against this law at third reading and be worthy defenders of the interests of the people you are sent here for, not for the interests of the rich who pay you to be here. Thank you. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, yes, anyone can lie to voters with memorized phrases, a nice PR and so on. I get the impression that you claim that at the moment in Mr. Radev's mandate the Bulgarian people live well that Mr. Radev contributed to the Bulgarian people living well. We, as part of the Bulgarian people... By the way, when we did the analysis, we were the only ones who didn't participate in any government. One part has a majority that broadcasts the Council of Ministers, the other part has elected a president. Together the President and the Council of Ministers rule, we sit behind you, we just watch you and wait for you to do something good for Bulgaria. And you now, I could not understand from what you said, you claim that Bulgaria is now perfect because the President is Rumen Radev. Is that what I was supposed to find out? Is that what you're suggesting? [[Applause from GERB.]] Because they voted two million by mistake for him. We did two or three consultative councils only until the issue of airplanes had to be resolved. Don't you have any ill-gotten themes in the country from now on? Isn't this guy going to bring us together to discuss even this point? Does the president care about the people, or was he just interested in planes? The suggestion that currently with the President of BSP and DPS Bulgaria is developing well is very dangerous. That's not true. [[Applause from GERB.]] If the president comes up with the thesis that he has the qualities to manage, but the presidential institution ties his hands, ordering the election in May, coming out of the warm nest, coming out of the thick salary, making a political project and appearing with all of us in front of the Bulgarian citizens with his programme. Let's see our qualities, see our program, see our vision. Vision for 3,500 leva. salary or 1000 leva. salary? Vision for the prosperity of the Bulgarian people or for the robbery of the Bulgarian people not of one, but of the other. Is that what you're offering us? If you are telling me that at the moment during the presidency of Rumen Radev the Bulgarian citizens are satisfied and no longer regret that they supported him, to be alive and well! Another election will come and we'll see. That is what we were said in Varna and your Mayor Kiril Yordanov. And then he got stoned. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u141	The line is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I think we should speak more arguably, not enter into historical facts from the presidential elections and what the results were, because I can tell you that from the moment the presidential elections ended, the presidential couple moved only in the oncoming movement. [[World applause and excitement in GERB.]] Yesterday's case is evidence of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Is there a third line? Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mareshki, I'm going to try a little simpler to explain it to you to understand. It is not about whether the Bulgarian people live better with the President because the President does not rule the state. What I was saying was that the President cares about the laws that we adopt here to make the lives of the Bulgarians better. And whether you were in charge or not, we found out yesterday how you were involved in the department. To colleagues from GERB, using crutch, at least use a healthy and not broken cane. Mr. Tsvetanov, I wouldn't have gone back to the history of numbers if you hadn't abused them yesterday. You told us yesterday how many people voted for you, how little for us. I showed you how much more they voted for President Radev. I know you're offended. I know you can't accept it, but these are the facts, so live with them. And when you applaud things that have nothing to do with life and are part of the yellow press, tomorrow the people will applaud you, only in some other parts of you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u146	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, the government is obviously trying to push the discussion into a direction that will clear up the main problem that we are trying to solve with this veto of the President on the Corporate Income Tax Act. Speaking of oncoming movements, I think that this entire ruling majority is moving in the opposite movement against its citizens. Dear colleagues, today we are looking at the changes you have made in the Corporate Income Tax Act as a result of the veto imposed by the President. The fact that we are talking about this topic again today leads to a definite conclusion that the changes you have made are the least thoughtless and untimely. The reaction of the Bulgarian citizens who immediately went out on the street and the adequate reaction of the presidential institution, which quite motivated us back as first-graders, especially you, to deal with this matter. You know there are several forms of taxation. One of them is the taxation of property owned, where entities are owners, in the case of cars that will receive the most severe tax burden with changes made. Also the freshmen who study finance, economics, law and whatever else know that the tax should be comparable to the property of the Bulgarian citizens. With these taxes on all of you it is clear that no serious budget goals are being pursued, but the end result is a hit on the household's pocket. And ultimately, the outcome of the beneficiary, i.e. municipalities, is extremely controversial. The truth is that one of the fundamental principles of taxation is being violated here, namely the principle of tax justice, honourable Members. In this you need to understand and understand it, because as much as it is written in the motives, in art. 60, para. 1 is written that compliance with the income tax of the persons must be constantly in the thoughts and actions of the MPs, and here we have a serious violation of this fundamental principle, recorded in the Constitution. It is no coincidence that the President's motives are built on this particular base, in this direction. It is very precise and clear that the changes made prevent the implementation of constitutionally recognised civil rights and duties. The arrangement of this tax, as you have tried to do, is to mention to the Bulgarian citizens that it pursues aims to improve the quality of the air, to improve the quality of life of the Bulgarian citizens, lying on the principle.................................................................................... In no case is enough and does not take into account, as recorded, the frequency of the use of vehicles, nor the presence of devices to reduce harmful emissions, nor the type of fuels used, nor the ability of Bulgarian citizens to bear this additional cost from their family budget, which in the years becomes thinner and thinner. This thing was obviously not the leading motive when these changes were introduced. Moreover, to this day, we have not seen precise and clearly written motives in the introduction of these texts to the plenary. We did not see the impact assessment because it is extremely important, and on the basis of the laws that you have adopted the Law on Laws. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly accurately and clearly state what the Members of the National Assembly should do. And you didn't do that thing. Even in the Budget Committee, when you rejected this veto, you have not given two words in the direction of explaining why, for what purpose and which vulnerable groups will be affected in this situation. Even then, we told you at first and second reading that 70% of the cars that are run in the country and are available here will be affected by this tax. You have done nothing in this direction to dissuade us from the end user who will have to pay out of his pocket this tax, what will happen to him. Not to mention that with these innovations in tax, tax reductions have also been abolished so far. Thus, the burden of the taxpayer becomes a little more than it is written inside the texts that are offered to us. And today I believe your common sense will prevail. I am particularly interested in the Patriot section of the Chamber how it will solve this dilemma in front of its voters, because I am sure that they are asking them this question. I do not see why we are going into such a debate, which is enshrined in our Constitution, and is recorded very precisely and clearly. At the same time, you are taking us out and taking away the opportunity to comply with the data that should be presented here before us and discuss them, namely the possibility that these citizens can pay their taxes. Some say: "Yes, BGN 10, BGN 15, but ultimately no one knows what the end result will be, especially that you are transferring responsibility for this under the Local Taxes and Fees Act to the mayors. And here, in order, because a lot of them are from GERB, of course, you have led them to make a meeting and announce:..We want to increase these taxes........................... without realizing that in just a few months there will be elections and they will have to choose them, and their municipal councils and these mayors have to increase the tax burden of their constituents in the municipalities. What do you say about these changes? Look, we're gonna fight air clean here, at the same time we're gonna take away citizens' incomes and the mayors' responsibility. What does that mean? You mean that this Parliament has practically already abdicated from its functions? This is what you do. Indeed, the only way out of this situation is today for the Law to be rejected and for this veto to be approved. Because if you do not hear this instance, which in the legislative process gives the assessment of the bills, namely the presidential institution to which the Constitution has given the right to return such laws, which openly violate the norms of the Constitution, you will hear the last call of the Bulgarian citizens, and you hear it every day. Sooner or later they will give you the final assessment and it will be forgotten in the historical future. You will be forgotten! That's what I'm going to tell you because you're making historical analogies and that 2 million. 200,000. You're gonna see some kind of song. These are the warnings you need to understand that you are being made. To get back to the law. I agree with what is written in the statement that the overall framework of the vehicle tax will certainly not achieve the environmental impact. Explain to me exactly how with the increase in vehicle tax you will increase the quality of atmospheric air? How are you gonna stop these people from charging their cars and driving them? It's kind of a hidden resection. Separately, the tax on these citizens. Do you give them, do you increase their wages? I didn't see in another law either in the State Budget Act, which is coming next week, to increase their ability to buy these electric cars, which you are talking about here, that they have to fight all over the place. It's not ecology. We have already told you in the debates before that neither this minimum wage you want after the New Year is ecological, nor this increase of 5.7% is ecological. Moreover, in a number of other laws, you are making even greater madness. I really don't understand at the moment what the personal relationship between the different representatives of the group leads you to or the pursuit of some purpose that benefits certain circles that may govern the state? Or perhaps you'd like to increase Mr. Mareshki's turnover in his gas stations? Is that the ultimate goal you're pursuing? Colleagues, if you have any common sense today... [[GERB lines.]] No, you will not collect 121 votes, honourable Members, you will not collect them, because I am convinced that there are also sane people among you who must go to their voters tomorrow and explain to them why and for what reason they increase taxes. Why and for what reason do they force them to get out of their cars, and for what reason do they not allow them to lead a normal and dignified life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u148	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Maria Sariyska, Chief Expert at the Department of Tax Policy and the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of the Office of Customs and Mr. Johan Ivanov, Director of Legal Affairs at the Office of Customs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u149	Thank you. We are voting on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for admission to the Chamber. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the persons admitted to the Chamber at Mrs. Stoyanova's suggestion. Any other speeches? Mr. Bojankov, you have declared a wish. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The veto of the President gives us the opportunity to rethink a really important change for Bulgarian citizens and to debate the texts again. In fact, the objectives set by the legislator are, in his words, an investment in health, air clearance and the introduction of the principle of............................................................................. Here we must answer whether these measures, which have provided for the increase in taxes, will achieve these results. I'm going to quote a study of the Delight that Holland orders. The Netherlands has a problem with the old cars or, more precisely, with the technical malfunctions. I am paying attention here and stressing the technical failure. Because if we just load up old cars with a higher tax, we could get to an injustice a newer car that pollutes because it's technically malfunctioning, pay less to reduce its tax and increase the old one. So this could lead to injustice. The Dutch state assigns and pays a lot to find out where hers is going, notice, technically faulty cars. It turns out that one of the main destinations is Bulgaria. The Netherlands concludes that Bulgaria is this destination because there is reduced technical and environmental control in Bulgaria. Technically and ecologically! This isn't about tax policy. By raising taxes, we will not solve the problem of technical and environmental control. And now I quote again a question to former Minister Radev when we asked him how many cars were denied initial registration due to non-covering environmental standards. The answer is that there are no environmental standards. There is no norm over which registration will be refused and there are no gas analysts in any DMV in Bulgaria, except one in Sofia who has received such a donation. That is, before this problem is resolved, and not to mention the follow-up, the current control, where during the annual reviews the controls are not reduced, is anarchy in places. And before we solve these problems, you resort to tax increases. In this way, there is nothing ecological to decide... will not clear the air.. something that I believe we all want. On the contrary, just a little more taxes will be collected without, however, guaranteeing where this money goes. So they're going into the budget. This money is not targeted, it will not go, as in Romania there are such environmental components, instruments, but it is spent only on environmental policies, only on investment in gas analysts, only in current and initial control. There is nothing of the sort here, and therefore the Law will not fulfill its purpose. So we have to think again and the veto gives us such a chance to make the right decision. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u151	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u152	Dear colleagues, the BSP colleague is absolutely right with his arguments. I would just like to add, Mr. Bojankov, that the direction of the Law may be correct in view of synchronization, in view of environmental legislation. However, increasing people's tax burden at times when they are unsure of their own income is an unfair policy, especially since such a bill brought people to the street. That is, he has the form of a political act, a charge of poverty. Something like this, we are accusing people of being poor by voting on such a bill, and it hits them hard, and they are very sensitive in this area. Our society is sensitive. It is our responsibility as politicians not to accuse people of poverty and not to make them feel so vulnerable on this basis. Therefore, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this law and will vote in favour of the president's veto because our society is not ready for such changes. Firstly, let us increase people's incomes, make them feel secure, stable, and then vote on such laws. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Are there any other lines to Mr. Bojankov's statement? If there isn't one for the doppelganger, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u154	I fully agree and I can give another example of policy in this direction, which is not a matter of tax increases, but would have an effect. Many cars in our country move without purification facilities such as DPF filters, such as catalysts. If we open up the Internet and write down the buy-in catalysts, we will find hundreds of sites that are currently active and very much unregulated trading with precisely such components, which is currently categorically prohibited by the Law. It is dangerous waste and acts a very strict regime in the Waste Management Act. It is a matter of the will of the state, a matter of control and a question of doing their jobs. People who carry out such activities in Bulgaria do not even hide themselves to such an extent they act. This would have an impact on the air, would undoubtedly help Bulgaria in the direction of neutralizing the consequences that are facing it, i.e. paying fines, because Bulgaria is condemned. But this is not done, and first it is resorted to tax increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. The word has the popular representative Georgi Markov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not a tax specialist. They certainly have not only fiscal, social, economic and any other character. But I take the floor that today we are looking primarily at an important political act during important political events in the country, and during a very important message on 9 November of the Bulgarian Head of State. I treat with great respect the constitutional right to veto the Bulgarian President. I also treat his personality with respect. The very fact that today, in this House, we are looking at the veto of the Head of State, who, as we mentioned, is not from the ruling majority, shows that Bulgaria is a functioning democracy, a functioning legal system and we do not need to change it. Because it's not just a random veto of the Head of State, it's over ten, n-th time there was a veto. And today it will be seen that the ruling party, rather the mandate holder GERB, does not have a constitutional majority to overcome the veto of the Head of State, with which the myth collapses that there is a convergence of the party with the state that is constantly insinuating us and is deeply false. The constitution requires 121 votes, which the party that won for the fourth time, due to the nature of the electoral law, will not. So the veto can be overcome either by coalition partners, which are three parties, or part of the opposition. We have had a veto against which opposition representatives voted, that is, Bulgaria is a functioning democracy. If today the veto is overcome, the Bulgarian Head of State, whom I respect, can refer the matter to the Constitutional Court, because the tax is not only a matter of fiscality, it is not only a matter of appropriateness, but also a question of a social state, with which the Bulgarian basic law begins. The Ombudsman may refer the matter to the Constitutional Court and he is not a representative of the ruling majority. Mrs. Manolova is a bright representative of the Bulgarian left. I respect her because she's a good ombudsman. I'm against taking her car. It is not the job of ministers to say who wanted to drive it, but it is not a representative of the majority and can refer to the Bulgarian Constitutional Court as well as the opposition. In other words, there are wide opportunities under the Bulgarian basic law on functioning democracy and against the convergence of the party with the state. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. 11 of the Constitution, which says that no party can declare itself stately. If he does, there will be a ban. I'm saying these November things because it was Sunday, last Sunday. There are a lot of people in my generation who are older and a little smaller and politicalists who didn't think to say what was the date of Sunday's national protest. It's November 18th. And 29 years ago here in the square of Alexander Nevsky, under the conditions of communist dictatorship, art. One hadn't fallen. Tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens went out to bring down the system of communists. And on the stand were people of the rank of Dr. Zhelev, of the rank of Blaga Dimitrova, of people of your ranks such as Chavdar Kuranov, whom I respect, the late Angel Wagenstein and others. Can we compare that pompous rally about freedom and democracy and overthrowing the communist system to the current protests that want to change the system? So how do we change it? Become an anarchocommunism? And I agree that there are protests, but do not say: the citizens are on the street, the citizens are protesting. Some citizens are on the street, some citizens are protesting. Well, she, Europe, is shaking with protests. Did you hear President Macron go out of power? Well, not 30, not 3,000, three hundred thousand protesters in France, and it's a civil war when the protests kill a woman, when the severely injured 14 at the moment in France are in danger of life. Macron walks, rules and so on. Well, in Greece, just a few days ago in Athens, young communists have them, I respect them, 45 years of the murdered students, unfortunately, from the junta. They threw out Molotov, set a stake in Athens, the police beat them. There are no such excesses in Bulgaria. We should be proud to be a parliamentary democracy regardless of our differences. [[Applause from GERB.]] We must say clearly: the system will not be changed in Bulgaria! Bulgaria will not go towards anarchocommunism, but towards strengthening the system of parliamentary democracy, towards its improvement. Whoever wants her to become another, to become a constitutional monarchy, must still know that the king reigns but does not rule. If he wants us to be the Presidential Republic of the Grand National Assembly, let him become Presidential. But the system in Bulgaria is only possible. It is called democracy and cannot be anarchocommunism, anarchosism and confusion. Thank you. [[(Voices: "Bravo!" (Applause from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u157	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Bojankov asked for a line. You have the floor, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines. Calling.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u158	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u159	Such calls from the House, Mr. Chairman, are ugly. I have great respect for the colleague who spoke before me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u160	Which colleague?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u161	The colleague Markov who spoke before me, Mr. Tsvetanov. In Bulgaria not only died, in Bulgaria you remember that many people set themselves on fire and burned themselves like torches and people continue to rule. [[Voices: "Eee!" and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u162	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Markov wants the floor. Let's ask if there are any other lines, Mr. Markov. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line. Wait for Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, I see that unlike your colleagues you have understood the essence of the debate that we are having today, namely to respect the Bulgarian Constitution and Bulgarian laws. As a constitutional judge, you know what the procedure is. Today, the purpose of this debate, to explain to your colleagues, and you can explain in the duplicate, is in a single direction to preserve this parliamentaryism and be able to make a decision in the direction of keeping peace in the state. Because the party you are currently representing is working in a single direction to destroy this system. The violation of the rule of law and the state order is currently entirely due to the adoption of laws which directly violate articles of the Constitution. Because no one can argue that art. 60, para. 1 is severely violated in this law. And today the debate is precisely in this direction to abolish this justice. Because it is not about which president is elected from which political power, but about the fact that Bulgarian citizens are becoming poorer every day, on the back of the violation of the Bulgarian Constitution, which is adopted here in this Chamber. And this is the essence and essence of the debate today: to improve the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens precisely in this institution - National Assembly, which must protect statehood. We are, as you said, a parliamentary republic and let us end today as a parliamentary republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There's no other line. Mr. Markov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u165	I treated the young colleague with respect, even on the sidelines I praised him for a statement he made on international matters. I am sorry for this man who caught fire in Varna, I regret the things that happened then, but I am still with my mind and I remember very well that only two or three months after that GERB won the elections in Varna categorically. My point is not to emotionalize and hyperbolise protests, to present themselves as a nationwide protest, a nationwide movement. Because, fellow Members, I have seen a national strike here from this tribune in the late 1990s at the time of Mr. Lukanov's rule when there was no aspirin and cotton, and there were no planes flying, there was no transport, it was a huge protest. Of course, those people who protest must have their rights, but they must move within the Constitution, not hinder other people, respect the law and see the Balkans. Why, in these Balkans, when we are only one chapter above and behave intelligently and calmly, against the backdrop of the Galimations in Greece, in Romania four times change government, Serbia's problems with Kosovo and so on, and so on, we should not stand better and constantly create ourselves as some masochist problems. I respect you as opposition, you have your right to an opinion, but we're not changing the system, that's what I mean. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u166	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I deeply respect Mr. Markov, but I do not know why Mr. Markov is questioning today the constitutional right of the President to propose a new discussion of the Law. It's his constitutional right, Mr. Markov. He doesn't violate the Constitution. The President, with this bill that brings us back, is paying attention to us on a Constitution, of course, once again to discuss possibly, if we have missed something that is in the public interest. That's why we're back today. In the interest of all that is happening today, of course, we are talking about tax justice. Colleagues, in my opinion, tax justice is a very demanding concept. It is fair to me that the tax which the taxpayer wishes to pay on January 1st goes before the counters and wants to pay. I've never seen such a taxpayer before. That is why we have been chosen here so that we can make a tax policy from which society consciously goes to vote. Do we now have such a consciousness of our society? We do not, because we do not have such bills, on the basis of which we offer them that this money, which is collected from them, will go into a particular policy of the state......................... Do we have that policy? We don't. In fact, your policy, colleagues, your tax policy is as much tax as possible and from these taxes how and how to raise the salaries of civil servants. You take to the cashier at the Billa Tax Office, you go and pay to the person appointed by you in a government office who doesn't know what he's appointed to. But he knows the day, Mr. Markov, because of the functioning democracy in Bulgaria, how and for whom to go to vote, and I think that one of the principles, Mr. Markov, for a functioning democracy is to be freely elected and free to choose. On this subject, I'm willing to sit down and argue and talk. How many people in Bulgaria who voted for GERB have voted freely? [[(Voices: ……]] Yes, the reaction is correct, thank you, I understand! You're all so elected free!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u168	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u169	What about the tickets? Colleagues, you, with every bill, in addition to taxes, impose such fines on the basis of which you place them in some funds. And if you could tell me the parking tickets from the highways, from the roads with these cameras you collect 24/7, what do you use them for, what do you spend it on? I'll just remind you that in the previous term, there was a lady who here said 100,000. lv. are given for ten pedestrian paths. You can't collect as many taxes as you can, distribute them to civil servants, collect as many fines as you can, distribute them to Kalinka, so that she can make a vision of the safe movement of our safe ways, by the way, of our dangerous ways. And that's why today the president is paying us back for just one point. I'm not talking about § 50 and § 64, where... I don't want to get into this. You are trying again in customs, where you will collect the excise duty, how and how you are trying to get rid of those who do their work conscientiously, and you will reassign those who are freely elected by you with a contest. Today I can pay attention to you to see in Kardzhali today the competition for appointments of school principals ends. Note and take a look at how many of them have not passed through the local President and the Regional President of GERB with the relevant application. And they are freely chosen! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues, we will support the president's veto with the clear awareness that the tax on old cars is not fair. I want to present to you our policy, our logic. You can support him if you don't want to, don't. Do we feel European? In Germany alone, the fight against old cars is based on the principle of investing in new technologies and in new clean green cars. Each purchased eco-friendly car next to the electric car in Germany is given up to 10 thousand. Euros to the owner who changes his car. And your logic by this law is the opposite. [[Heckling]] I want to tell you an old parable when the king sent his vizier to see, raising people's taxes, what they do on the ground. After the first visit, after the second visit he explained that they were working, and on the third time he said: "Everyone is playing people! "
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u170	I can tell it better. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u171	I can tell it better. Okay, you're playing dummies. And when he found out that they were playing cocksuckers, he said, "Let's run!" I think we've come to this situation! Let's support the president's veto, re-examine these paragraphs. Let's get into that policy that's necessary for both us and you, so that people outside don't start playing dick. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u172	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. [[Relations from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Are there any lines? I can't see. Sentence request Mr. Gokov. [[Heckling]] Please extend group time. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The President, among other reasons, disagrees with the amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees concerning Motor Vehicle Tax, the postponement of the deadline for the reform of the determined fee for household waste and the introduction of higher tax rates for residential properties on the list of resorts in the Republic of Bulgaria. The governors declared that they were surprised by the President's motive for the charge. They claim that if this veto is accepted, it means immediately, without preparation, to burden many millions of people at the expense of business. It sounds strange that the claim without training is because this delay is at least four or five years old and during this time it manages all GERB. You have had the opportunity to propose for a broad public discussion, to reach consensus and to adopt ways and principles for determining the municipal waste charge so that the burden is not on millions of people at the expense of the business, but to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. That is to say, the household waste charge is to be determined on the basis of the necessary material and technical, administrative costs for the provision of the service and not of a mudguard, as so far as it has been done. You delay the imposition of justice for 2022 when you will not be in power, that is, you are transferring responsibility to another majority. This is yet another delay, which speaks of incoherence, irresponsibility and lack of carelessness of management. I will vote against the rejection of the veto because this is unacceptable and there is no justice in the decisions. Next, the government remains in its position for the eco-component fee for cars. Of course, the environment is important because we live in it and it depends on our health and lifestyle. Therefore, conservation is one of the most important functions of the state. An important element in the protection of this environment is the purity of the atmospheric air. Its quality is influenced by many factors that manifest in a specific way in certain settlements. Along with car pollution, there is a serious share of the emissions of other harmful substances from, for example, the combustion of solid fuels, such as the emissions of large combustion plants, solid particles from the dust and so on. In the polls in the top three of the measures that citizens tend to support, the most frequent street washing comes first; the provision of free urban transport in the days of high pollution and the introduction of low-cost tickets for a whole day's travel in urban transport. As you can see, among these measures is not the increase in taxes for old cars. With § 39 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law, you abolished the tax reductions that have existed so far and raised taxes. I am convinced that in the formation of the vehicle tax there must be an ecological component, but such that it does not hit the poorest layers of the population. Rather, incentives for more environmentally friendly vehicles should be introduced rather than restrictions for old cars. From now on, the issue in the context of the fact that vehicles over 15 years of age are affected, which are more than 70% of all registered in Bulgaria and are driven by the poorest layers of the population. How does the adopted overall regulation of this tax achieve the objective of stimulating the removal of older cars from use, thereby reducing air pollution from the harmful emissions of vehicles? How, with what restrictions did you make a significant principle?............................................................ is paying........................................ How do you take into account the frequency of use of motor vehicles? How do you account for the emission reduction devices installed factoryly on vehicles? All things that make them less pollutants than a Euro 6 certified car, but used every day. You claim that the tax on motor vehicles is a property tax. You are not responding, are you aware that air pollution is not due to the ownership of the vehicle, but to its use. How is it clear that the taxes collected from municipal taxes or at least some of them will be used for environmental purposes? Have we exhausted all the other ways to fight the contaminated air, that we have reached out to the cars of the poor? And many more questions that are in favor of accepting the president's veto. There is another very important reason for accepting the president's veto. It is a lack of any social justice of the provisions adopted by the majority, especially the introduction of higher tax rates for certain cars. It is because of the lack of social justice that people are protesting. Do you hear them? They want nothing but a fair price of fuel and pay attention to the cancellation of this unfair increase in tax. The overall vehicle tax framework adopted by the majority will not achieve the overall environmental impact, but will, on the other hand, give rise to serious social consequences, expressed in the load of the lower and poorer layers of the population at the expense of the wealthy. It will deepen the serious inequalities in our country anyway. May I remind you that 37% of the people in Bulgaria are in a state of extreme poverty and that much more are at risk of poverty. To remind you that in the 20th century, a car is not a luxury but a necessity. Along with high fuel prices, this increase in vehicle tax will deprive many Bulgarians of many services, including health services. Imagine that you live in a place without a hospital and the nearest one is 80 km away. Imagine that you can't use a motor vehicle because you can't pay high taxes and high fuel prices. No, you can't imagine that because you don't have social sensitivity and because the satiety of the hungry doesn't believe! You need to reconsider and support the president's veto together. I will vote against the rejection of the veto because this is an attitude towards the Bulgarians and a lack of justice is unacceptable. Last, perhaps not so important for much of the Bulgarians, but important as a principle. With § 50 of the Law, you amend the Customs Act. Among other nonsense in these changes, fundamental principles of the public service and the status of the civil servant have been violated. Those principles are to ensure impartial, independent, professional and lawful fulfilment of obligations. Whether you want one, or you want obedience, is another matter. How will you comment on the amendment introduced by § 50 of art. 10, para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union') did not have the right to dismiss only people before they were convicted. You are now adopting a similar, even more restrictive text affecting some of the civil servants. You do not aim with this fight against corruption, but with total control and subordination of civil servants, in the case of customs officers, so that every naughty person can have a neat set-up, to be charged with being released from work without proven guilt. Thank you for the hearing I think it is necessary not to listen to my words, but in the veto of the President and in his motives, to vote together, to support this veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Mareshki. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am obliged to make this remark in the name of the justice we are all talking about. I hope we're sincere, but the numbers show quite other things. I'll be as punctual as possible, so I got my glasses. I see that for one of the poorest people who drive the cheapest cars in the last row, not to say the name of the car, we are talking about the difference between the new minimum taxation within 45 cents a month. Is that what this circus is about? So, 10 billion for arming and 45 cents for the weakest cars. [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]] Is that the attitude? Is that why we lost four hours today to make this artificial image in front of the poorest people who are not the poorest because of us from Volja?! [[Noise and lines.]] Let's face it. On another occasion I have made historical notes and I know that, for example, Mr. Stefan Danailov was a minister in your governments when he submitted a budget with which practically our mothers and fathers, your parents or close families are doomed to hunger with a budget in which pensions were 20, 30, 50, 100 BGN. Do you remember these things about those people who still remain the most vulnerable to date? You will now deceive them that you and the president return 45 cents a month to them is one count. A little further up, there's another count in which we're talking 18 cents a month. Is that why we're playing this game right now? At the same time, when we talk about justice, about other more expensive cars, not to tell them the brands that have been registered as Isn't that the justice we're talking about?! Isn't that why you want different taxation for the poorer and the richer to have justice, and in this case you support injustice?! This is about this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u176	Mr. Mareshki, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u177	Okay, I'm moving on to a statement so I don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u178	Let's finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u179	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u180	There's a second line, a duplicate, and then you continue with the speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will continue in the spirit of the front line. I'll be a little more specific, because the whole circus we're looking at today and the debates last time Mr. Mareshki said to you: it's really about pennies. When it comes to a really big increase, it's about a category of cars, and it's very specific. This is because of the change imposed when the N-1 categorisation is removed from being taxed with low tax and I will tell you in particular. For brand Audi A3 Sportback a powerful car, a new car for which a tax of 6,50 BGN has been paid since the change will pay 618,24 BGN.; BMW X6 again a new, powerful, sports car from BGN 6,50 will pay BGN 519,05. Are we talking about these poor colleagues that you are so zealously defending and the president has returned the veto? For two weeks we watch that the people who protested, I think that something or didn't understand you, or did they protest that you would keep them the low price of taxes on sports cars? Is that why you're fighting? Say it, come out and say it! Let's finish this topic and vote on conscience. If, indeed, fellow Members, you vote on your conscience, I think it is fair that the people with the newer ones, with the more powerful cars, pay more tax. That's fair taxation. The other, colleagues, is populism. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, with all due respect to you, because what you read, you read it very quickly and I personally couldn't hear much of the words I heard only against the President and the nonsense, that's all I heard. I'd like to ask you in the back to read it again and slowly, so we can really understand what your motives are.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u184	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Gokov, would you like to use the possibility of a duvet? There were three lines to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Angelov, if I read and what I read, you listen. If you can't listen carefully, there are some ear drops, Mareshki will offer them to you first.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u186	Please, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u187	Secondly, if you don't understand what this is all about, you can take the transcript and read on. Now get to the point. Since you're not the only one who's not listening, but other colleagues aren't listening, on top of that, and you're not reading, I'm going to read you something from the President's motives: The principle of social justice of taxes has a basis in art. 60, para. 1 of the Constitution. "Mr. Markov can explain this to you. In the case of tax benefits and burdens, they shall also be eligible for their determination under art. 60, para. 2 of the basic law is left to the legislator. However, the legislator is limited by the rule of para. 1 and is obliged to take account of the income and possessions of the payers. The state of vehicles in a country is a projection of the standard of living and an indicator of the existing social divisions in it. There is hardly an owner who does not want to benefit a newer and more environmentally friendly vehicle, and in fact the majority of citizens cannot afford it because of the income received. That is why the problem is finding the right balance to take account of existing realities, not to prejudice the principle of tax justice. Regardless of the environmental component introduced, the tax on vehicles by legal nature is a property direct tax. It should therefore be bound by the property of the citizens, as Article enjoins. 60, para. 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Markov, you can intervene and explain the Constitution. Mr. Mareshki, 45 cents a month. You must guarantee this because Mr. Alexander Ivanov also guarantees it. If you really guarantee it, I call on all people to send you their tax returns and you and Mr. Alexander Ivanov to pay them these taxes by March. If you're so larges and you think you shouldn't do such things, take them. Several times you and Mr. Ivanov mentioned the word "Cirque" that we are making a circus. A bigger circus than what you're doing, I don't see, first of all. Secondly, if the people who protest outside must not see them, but they are many, and I go to the protests and I see them, tell them that what we want is a circus. I don't know why you're getting into situations that don't bring any benefits to you. Yeah, I'm fighting for tax cuts. I think you have also stated in your program that you will not increase taxes and increase them. Here we are, without any commitment to tax evasion, doing so. [[The President signals that time has expired. People's representative Alexander Ivanov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Don't give Mr. Ivanov the right to a personal explanation because he's giving me a line and I can't speak without mentioning his name.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u188	Time's up, Mr. Gokov. Thank you. To speak, Mr. Mareshki has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! True, some find it hard even to read, but even harder to understand what they read. So to our proposal to do tests for alcohol, drugs, emotional state, we will add perhaps intelligence, but this is in the future. I hope you'll all support us. Bulgarians need to know what are the people who govern them, who stand before parliament and represent them. About the circus. Yeah, maybe I do the biggest circuses. If you go to one of our gas stations, you'll see a big circus. It is like protesting everything you have done over the years, namely creating monopolies, supporting them, including with the presence of your relatives and relatives in the governing bodies of these monopolies and cartels. So I'm not ashamed of the circus we're doing, but it's okay for you to be ashamed of the circus you're doing. Because we said numbers... And I really do, because you obviously can't do anything and yet you're calling on me to do a job to make up for people. I can compensate them and commit that for the increased tax of every Bulgarian who comes to charge at our gas station, I will pay him the top. That's what I'm gonna do! Only take something you can do. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do something to help the Bulgarians live well. Fix it, which one was your community? Kavarna, who? Make it a sun. Show it to me when you're walking around. I'll take you back a little bit. Populism would be if it wasn't cynicism. One of your colleagues has gone so far as to bring in the self-inflaming people. I must remind you that one of these people was protesting against one of your brightest mayors and your municipal councilors, and the protest of the whole city for those who do not know, I do not see the people of Varna, but to remind you of it, he wanted the resignation of the mayor and the municipal council. For the weaker ones I would remind that when we had the debate at the municipal council that we should listen to the will of the Bulgarian people and resign, our colleagues from BSP said: "Yes, we are the first five, six people who are currently in the municipal council, we can resign, but we do not guarantee the conscience of our next comrades that they will follow us. " Colleague Slavova. Who else were on the city council? We left the municipal council and all 50 or 100 people who were on the list gave a personal example of how a politician listens to his voter's will. Everyone resigned, and the municipal council stayed with 48 people, not 51. Where were your comrades then to leave the municipal council and go to new elections? That's how democracy is done. This means listening to the will of your voter, to the will of your citizens. So don't speculate on the deaths of the people who have also given their lives, fighting against what you represent. Have some mercy, have some conscience and don't do what you're doing right now. Shame on you! Let's really think about how to fight the cartel, how to make sure that Bulgarian citizens have free medicines always, at any time, as much as they need at this time and as much as they need at this time. We from Volya know how to do it. When we have the chance, we'll prove it. We know how to fight the cartel. When we have the chance, we'll show it within a few months. We won't wait years, mandates and so on to do it. Can't this consensus, which we all saw when we had to spend a few billion on meaningless hardware, which the Bulgarian people over 97% say is pointless spending and would never do, we spend their money. Why is this consensus gone now? For example, let's give these 10 billion dollars and buy all these citizens electric cars. First of all, we're going to help the social condition, second of all, we're going to help ecology. Isn't this a much more effective spending for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens? Why don't you make such an offer? Why don't we consolidate around this? This is just a small touch on how we can be much more useful with the money of the Bulgarians for their lives, for the ecology in Bulgaria, for how to return the escapees abroad. I've had a few meetings with such people today. High-intelligent, super-mannered, super-educated. However, they have no place, they do not see what to do. They ask me what they can do to come back and help Bulgaria. Here, with such methods we will give them a chance to return. And making small-time populism won't help anything. Even today to support the President's fantasy veto and stop these two levs and how many pennies - BGN 2,15 - was the name of Reno clio 1 and 2 - will we help the Bulgarian citizen live well? Come out and explain that. Say: yes, we do this thing because, when we cancel it, you will live better tomorrow. Can one of the BSPs for Bulgaria come out and tell the Bulgarian citizens that if we support the President's veto today, the President himself will come out and say it to the Bulgarian citizens? I will immediately support the president's veto if any of you say that the Bulgarian citizens from tomorrow, when we support the president's veto, will live better. Now that's cheating! This is cynical behavior towards our Bulgarian citizens, towards your voters. That's why we can't support him. We will support any other proposal, which will abruptly, quickly, as of today, make it possible for Bulgarian citizens to feel it and live better. Please think of such suggestions. You have our full support, no matter which part of the room they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Mareshki, before you offer the National Assembly IQ tests, see which point we're looking at right now. Right now, we're not looking at a filling point for gas stations, for drugs, for airplanes. Five minutes, you talked about these things. I do not know who gave you the reference in which you say that taxes were raised 15 pennies and is it worth the Bulgarian Parliament to deal for BGN 2.47. I will say statistics, not by Georgi Svilenski, but by Doncho Barbalov, Deputy Mayor of Sofia Municipality for Financial Affairs. The most massive cars after the application of the new tax on its lowest scale: Volkswagen Polo 350%.; Opel Korsa, 1994, without Euro standard, with lower power, has so far paid BGN 23, currently becoming BGN 32. 50 percent. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] This reaction, colleagues, not against me. This reaction can be gathered together. "Moskovska" 33, Deputy Mayor Mr. Barbalov! Official information from Sofia Municipality! If he's lying, then I'm lying to you, too, then we're lying to the Bulgarian society. I do not believe in Sofia Municipality that you have been lied to: from BGN 23.00. BGN 32,00 That's 50%. £9. BGN 32,00 That's 350%. Mr. Mareshki, who gave you these tablets, send him to an IQ test, not the MPs in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think the first person to sign up for an IQ test or at least...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u194	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u195	...in knowledge of mathematics, is Mr. Svilensky because of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u196	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u197	...23 to 32 is not 50%, this does not need to be considered, with the naked eye it is not 50%. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's your big problem. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You had the opportunity, I listened to you carefully, there is no need for rude behavior in this room! That's the big problem, Mr. Svilensky. By this logic you immediately give the colleagues from GERB the opportunity to say that at your time the pension was 100 BGN and now it is 300 BGN. And that's a 300% increase. This is the problem that the percentage over one lev, if you do it and five levs will be 500 per cent, but that does not mean that someone will lose by four levs or by three levs and thirty cents a month. The problem is that you are thinking about small numbers, which are an inheritance from your management, and right now whatever is done on them, as a percentage will be great. Why are you looking at them as a percentage? Tell people honestly that you're fighting for a dollar a month! If we spare them that one lev a month, they'll start living better. That's what you actually explained to them. Even with less than eighty cents a month you said from 23 to 32 there are nine leva, which makes eighty cents roughly per month, even less. Is that why we're having this debate? Is this how you want to shine in front of Bulgarian citizens? [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] That is why I have used so long to talk to you about morality, about practical behavior, about pragmatism, about things with which you can really be useful to Bulgarian citizens. Is that what you're shining with right now? Is that why you made me tell you how pathetic what you're offering? I am telling you, because you obviously cannot handle it, if you really every Bulgarian pedadnian, on which his tax notice came with from 23 to 32 BGN, to order our gas station, I will compensate him for the price. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u198	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u199	I will do it because it is so simple, and you can't even do that, and we are having some scary debate, we are doing some scary advertising.. The President has become very social and he has fixed the lives of Bulgarian citizens. Please get down on the ground. I told you, for every reasonable suggestion, you have my full support, no matter which part of the room to come from. In order to be as clear as possible and Valeri Simeonov to offer something good, we will support him. We have supported him in some of his actions. Every single person who offers something meaningful will support it. Thank you. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria. Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u200	What happened to the bone?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The next statement is the People's Representative Yordan Apostolov. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you are, Mr. Gokov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, you allow someone from the stands to constantly advertise the companies they run, the gas stations, the drugs. I remember one such case, Mr. Chairman, that some mothers, with some T-shirts written on our chests, are killing us! [[GERB noise and lines]] You didn't let them go because they violated a member of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, which is not allowed to advertise here. Now here you allow a person from yesterday, starting today, to advertise the companies he manages. I don't think there's any way to do that from this tribune. Please make a remark to him that you have noticed him, give him a sign...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u203	You probably didn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u204	...because otherwise I will accuse you and the entire room of complicity in this ad. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If we are going to put Mr. Mareshki at a disadvantage to the other sellers of petrol and medicines, let's say that the National Assembly is working for his advertising. Make a note of it! It's unacceptable! [[Noise and lines from GERB and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u205	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Mareshki is not disadvantaged. If you had listened carefully, you would have heard that I made a remark. As for the charges, I wouldn't be surprised to be charged with anything you decide. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A year and a half, maybe more, since we've been here, in this National Assembly, and for the first time, I've allowed myself to do this thing. As a protest against the double standard for Cornelia Ninova, we can't break the procedure for Mareshki?! She can do a commercial?! Mr. Vejdi Rashidov comes out here many times and explains...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u207	Mr. Mareshki, to me. Turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u208	For example, Mr. Vejdi Rashidov has repeatedly come out here and man has created something in his life, and boasts. Yeah, he did paintings, art, he did other things... [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u209	With your hands!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u210	Whatever he did, he goes out and brags. If you don't have anything to brag about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u211	Mr. Mareshki, what do you pay attention to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u212	I'm paying attention to the double standard. If anyone can brag in this room, don't make a remark to me, and I can brag.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u213	Well, I made a remark before...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u214	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u215	I think that's enough, you understand. Thank you, too. You have the word, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to make a comment to you, Mr. Alexander Ivanov, please look at me. I would like to make a note to you because you did not say, Mr. Ivanov, that this bathrobe registered as N-1, that is what you said, registered as N-1 her tax is being raised, but you did not say that the conscientious owner of such a car who registered it without using this fictional categorization, at the moment his tax will fall by 100 levs. That is, out of 520, in the new clauses and the euro category, this tax will fall to the conscientious citizen with 100 leva, and the one who has benefited from the preferences will become what it should be. That's not the point. We from NFSB's group in the United Patriarchs will reject this veto. I would like to say that immediately afterwards we will also propose an amendment to the Law in this part of it, which we did not agree with at the very beginning. That is, we have had several proposals that have not been taken into account, namely the taxation of hybrid cars and the measurement of the actual condition of the vehicle, in the annual technical examinations. Colleagues on the left, Ordinance No. 32 is a fact and it is not true what you stated just now that there are no norms to be measured by. The changes to Regulation No 32 are a fact and we now have a basis on which we can set foot for environmental standards. In other words, when checking at the checkpoints, it can be said which car should be stopped by registration because it does not meet these minimum requirements. In the case of initial registration, it may also be stated which vehicle should not be registered. One more thing. We shouldn't bury our heads in the sand like ostriches. You know very well why these changes are being imposed. You know it on the left, on the right, we all know it. If our country did not take such action, as with particulate matter and with the introduction of the environmental component, we face a fine of 770 thousand. euros per day. Then, fellow Members, let me ask you, what's the fairer one with a few? [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It doesn't matter if it's pennies or levs, the tax, because the budget is a basket where when you fill it, you just start pulling out of it. If you start pulling out 770 thousand. EUR per day fine, this is a much greater damage to Bulgarian citizens than this tax, which is currently being offered. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u217	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. [[National Representative Krum Zarkov wants the floor. Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u218	The debate is not over! Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor. You were distracted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u219	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to give other colleagues the opportunity to take the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry if I've been delayed in my reaction. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! The idea of the presidential veto of any law is to have a new discussion of a controversial provision. What is happening today in this House is unlikely to be worth discussing, and I will therefore plead for the fact that we support the veto so that there is time to consider all these proposals once again. Let's remember how it all started. The idea is to have an environmental component in a certain tax, which was motivated by importers to move people to buy cars that pollute less. Is that right? That's right! Now, if this fee, this new tax is insignificant and will not affect with anything of their behaviour, it is meaningless and then you have to tell what will be done with the money that will be collected, however much they are. However, if, which is more likely, we aim to encourage.. and this is a commendable goal, the use of new cars, we must bear in mind that this cannot be achieved in this way because of the difficult economic situation in which 3 million of the drivers of these cars are located. Understand that at the moment, to encourage buying new cars by charging the old ones, it's like punishing a kid they bought marzipan for not having two chocolates. This is ridiculous! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] It's not a tax! It's a fine! It's a fine and it's a fine! Soon we talked here about tax laws in a more general sense. We talked about income tax. It was supposed to be flat for everyone. This is for easier collection, easier for everyone. We talked about VAT, offered to cancel the VAT, to differentiate it. Then it was absolutely impossible for everyone to have the same. We're doing something different today. Why? You said it was about ecology. Let's think about it, please think about it! Do you think that by raising a few tens or hundreds of leva the tax on someone who has to use their car, it will reach out and take out thousands of euros to buy a newer one? Do you think that's gonna happen? Of course, it will have no effect on the way people use cars on the way people own their cars! On the choices they make because they practically have no choice but to buy what they have the opportunity to go to work. We do not underestimate the issue of ecology and clean air at all, but I would offer you alternatives such as free urban transport, a powerful campaign, especially in Sofia, for a joint journey. If we really care about air pollution, why don't we attack other causes like dusty streets, with their regular washing. It's not up to the people. Like, for example, chemical pollution, for which I, as a chosen member of Ruse, am particularly sensitive, along with my colleagues on the left and on the right. Burning household waste and so many things that can be done for quality air and a more quality environment. Why, if you're really so concerned about the environment, are you canceling the mayors' obligation to introduce a certain way of collecting waste, to introduce a new fee? That fee reform, which you are putting off by two years today and which the President is returning for a new discussion, is also environmentally friendly in nature. It aims to make the fee fairer, each to pay as much as it throws away and thus to stimulate less waste disposal. However, for the mayors and for the municipalities two years there, for the Bulgarians, for those drivers who drive the old cars now, but immediately. Why? It's obvious you have to raise money, you want to raise money. What are you gonna do with that money? This is a follow-up issue and we can discuss it, we will discuss it next week when we think about the budget. The logic of collecting money is a mistake. It's not right to collect a little bit of a lot so that you don't affect the few who live very well. For you and your policy all poor are pollutants, and all rich are investors. Well, it's not like that! That's not true. That's not true. This logic in economic, social and political terms is disastrous. It is ultimately harmful to the state because when people who most need it, those who can't afford more expensive cars when they feel pressured by the state, they react. They react by defending themselves through protests or by fleeing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Once again, the president is giving you a chance to reconsider! [[(GERB reply: Your time is up!]] Right are those who call out that time is running out. Only it's not my time that's over! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u220	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will start a little more constructively. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs. Ninova for the previous vote in which the BSP group supported our proposal for gas vehicles. Thank you, this was the right decision on your part and you responded to our call. Your colleagues have asked several times what you do with the veto and how you will vote. There's no way we can't support the law, and there's no way we can support the veto, and I'll tell you why. At the moment when the veto was created for just one very clear purpose, when the President actually pushes certain parts of society against other parts of society, we cannot perceive it as another act, except as a political one. It does not fully examine the technology of the law, does not examine the proposals and does not interpret them in substance. Even BSP colleagues, if you look at your transcript of the speeches, you will notice several mutually conflicting arguments. On the first point of the President's proposal, namely from the veto of four, you speak with economic arguments. At point two, which is also economic, you are speaking with social arguments and by maintaining the principle of law, or you have to use the same principle absolutely everywhere, or you have no way of complying with it. Namely: if you say that, for the first point, car tax will lead to an increase in burdens for our society, you must say that the cancellation or accelerated introduction of the new waste charge will also lead to such burdens. That is, you are now calling with one hand not to introduce the ecotax for nearly 3.7 million cars, because, you see, it is detrimental to our society, but for all residential buildings in the country you say: introduce a higher waste charge. That's what you're doing right now, there's no other way to interpret it. Understand, colleagues, yes, with the political veto you are definitely chasing political goals, but you cannot achieve a certain political result and you cannot expect us to fall for this narrow political game so that you can see how wonderful the veto is. None of you, except perhaps colleague Zarkov, have allowed himself to enter the substance of the matter. 2, p. 3 et c. 4 and comment on them. None of you actually came out of this tribune, as under the Constitution, to defend the new discussion of four points, not one, but four points. The president is one to be president of everyone. If there is to be a new discussion of all points, you had to present them, comment on them, argue absolutely all points. There is perhaps only a small paragraph in the President's motives that I absolutely agree with and colleague Bojankov mentioned it. In my past speech from this tribune I told you that there must be a universal principle for all, it must be the same, it must be respected................. to pay................................. to pay....................................... The fact that I was not available here also led us to not be able to get it in time, but tomorrow we will have a new proposal for a factual change of law. What you supported last time for gas vehicles, I ask you once again to support it, and I ask my colleagues from GERB to have a really meaningful debate in principle. From then on, the other will be a game with people's fears... how much, how much, how much we will enter into a debate and can even get to a debate should there be a tax system. I am sure that if we put it this way, most likely a large part of society will say: yes, of course, there should be no tax system. Why would anyone else take my money? We, as a society, know that the principle of taxes is very simple.. we seize some of the goods so that the state can exist, so that the state can then redistribute, so that, when we, you, all write the proposals on the budget, they all have corresponding incomes that can be reassigned. And how many and what parameters are in the respective taxes.. we are talking about local taxes and fees, this is the prerogative of local self-government and let them judge it. I address my colleagues from the BSP: talk to Mr. Radev. Indeed, the last vets were written entirely politically. My call is: talk to him and not about whether he has the right or not to write veto, but on something very simple to write it so that it will be the same for all Bulgarian citizens. Don't let him get mixed up in writing it politically. He's a very well-liked person, supported by a very large part of society, don't let him be one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u222	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? None [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Honest Vesselinoff's speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Obviously, the map of poverty is very strong and we are often tempted to reach for it, and I would like to ask some questions to those who are playing it. First of all, this veto is not just about one text, it is about four texts. The second of them has exactly the opposite in meaning, in philosophy and in effect, meaning of what the first has. The first is with the idea of reducing the tax burden of owners of old cars, respectively of poor people, say the opponents of the texts of the law something we share to a large extent. There really must be a correction there. Subject to the fact that there should be a component, the adjustments should be made by means of a Law amending and supplementing the specific law that we will do. The second point is the opposite. There it is proposed to cancel the second extension, which we are giving for the introduction of the new principle of payment of the fee "bit waste." I'd like to ask the poor people who are very trumped with the first-point card, do they agree to support this second veto point and raise by nearly 50%, and in some places more and more, the shit charge of each owner, the individual, the apartment. The other side of the question is: has he ever spoken to any of the municipalities that are ready with this new type of calculation, with the new methodology and at all how could municipal administrations switch to this new type of taxation? Dear colleagues, we cannot therefore support this veto because, firstly, it will reach much deeper into the pockets of citizens, albeit through the real estate and not through the cars. Secondly, because we will condemn the municipalities to blanks, to the inability to perform their duties in collecting household waste, and therefore each of us will feel it, seeing the species of our hometown and the place it resides in. I think and I am quite convinced that we reject this veto, which is a sum of several texts, and not just the text on cars that manifests itself widely. I believe that these legitimate remarks regarding the tax table itself can be easily developed into an additional ID to alleviate the situation of those who would be unfairly harmed by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-22.u224	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2018. Vote 176 MPs: 130 against 46 abstentions. Dear Members of Parliament, the Corporate Income Tax Act has been re-accepted. (GERB and United Patriarchs.) The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of receipt of it under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Parliamentary Control Communication on 23 November 2018, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from MP Jayhan Ibryamov. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; Georgi Gokov; Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; and Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov and one question from the MPs Manol Genov and Lubomir Bonev. 3. The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov will answer two questions from the MPs Krasen Krastev and Kalin Vassilev; and Ivan Chenchev. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Galya Zhelyazkova and Dimitar Gechev; and Claudia Gancheva and Ruslan Toshev. 5. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MPs Emilia Staneva-Milkova and Alexander Matsurev. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer nine questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Stoilov; Irena Anastasova; Yordan Mladenov; Kristian Vigenin. Two questions; Svetla Bachvarova, Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; Nikola Dinkov; and Svetla Bachvarova and Kristian Vigenin. 7. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Iglika Ivanova-Subeva; and Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krassimir Karakachanov to a question with a written answer from MP Filip Popov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; Alexander Alexandrov; and Venka Stoyanova; - the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, one question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Krum Zarkov; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Radostin Tanev and Galya Zhelyazkova; and Stanislava Stoyanova and Tanya Petrova; and to one question with a written answer from the MP Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova to a question written by the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentin Lambev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question written by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - one question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Stoyan Mirchev to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - two questions from the MP Evgeni Budinov to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov; - a question from the MPs Asya Peeva and Pavel Hristov to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova; - two questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev; and Velislava Krasteva to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Regular plenary session on 23 November 2018, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
