ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Before we begin, I'll introduce you to a few messages. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 19 December 2018 a Decree No 309 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. On 19 December 2018, a General Draft of the Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted at the first vote on 12 December 2018 was received and sent to the Members of the National Assembly. The draft is drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On 20 December 2018, the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles adopted in the first vote on 12 December 2018 entered and will be distributed to the Members of the National Assembly. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On 18 December 2018, two resolutions were submitted to the National Assembly, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic of Economic Dimensions for Stronger Europe and Social Dimensions for More Solid Europe. The materials are provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Environment and Water and are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON CONSTRUCTURAL CHANGES IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND A PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON PERSONAL CHANGES IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding the draft decision on structural changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers, I give the floor to Mrs. Zaharieva to brief us on the reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister Pavlova! On behalf of the Prime Minister and on the basis of art. 84, para. Article 7 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I present to your attention a draft decision of the National Assembly on structural changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. With your attention the draft decision is proposed that the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 be closed in connection with the completion of the rotating Trio Presidency Estonia On the basis of art. 84, para. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I present to you the draft decision of the National Assembly on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft decision proposes that Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova be released as Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 in connection with the completion of the rotating Trio Presidency Estonia This letter to you, Ms. Karayancheva, was signed by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. The draft decision is also attached to the reasons. On behalf of the entire government, I express my special thanks to Mrs. Pavlova. The creation of a ministry and of a minister who is leading it has shown that the chosen model, which you voted with the composition of the government, was extremely successful because the assessments after the completion of the Bulgarian Presidency are that Bulgaria has managed extremely successfully with this first Presidency of the European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, you've heard the solutions. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin. To announce that Mrs. Pavlova is here, only that she is not sitting in the seat of ministers, but in the back, because there is a health problem and there is no way to climb the stairs to the place for ministers, but she is present in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister Lilyana Pavlova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The results of the Presidency have already been discussed, including in plenary. A few words on the concrete solution and on the current situation. From our point of view, this proposal is late. Months ago, the work carried out by this ministry within the Bulgarian Presidency itself could have been completed, finalising the process to move on to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the country of formal and parallel realities, this coordination could be formally taken over by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and indeed by the Deputy Minister of Professional Diplomat to complete our commitments with the Trio. Of course, Boyko Borisov's decision is different, but we must note that additional expenses were made during this period, bonuses were given. This is something that is certainly not a great expense, but in the end it is about the effective use of funds. Again I say this is the decision of Boyko Borisov, of the Council of Ministers, but it could have been different. With regard to the numbers that came up related to the amount of funds that were spent for the Bulgarian Presidency, Mrs. Pavlova also said yesterday that it was one of the most modest presidencies, as I joked about it, it is even less than a fine of the European Commission. On the other hand, it is not only about how much money is spent but about how it is spent. Therefore, we will request detailed reference from the Minister of Finance about where the funds have gone and on this basis we will draw our conclusions. I stress: not the total amount, but how and where these funds went. We will not talk about successes and failures, but in the meantime, after the end of the Bulgarian Presidency, things have happened that we can at least raise eyebrows to some of the main sponsors, the people who have committed themselves to the implementation of the Presidency, are now either in custody or wanted by Interpol; neither are we in Schengen yet; our carriers have been hit by the decisions under the "Mobility" package. That is, obviously, there are things that have either not been prepared and done properly and are beginning to come out in this period, or we have to say that there is very important work to be done that we do not know whether this government and those responsible for the negotiations on these issues are capable of doing adequately. Mrs. Pavlova, you're going back to the National Assembly. In the interests of objective truth, we must say that at Commission level we had a good partnership, a good interaction between government and parliament, which cannot be said, however, with regard to plenary and the Prime Minister's commitment. I note again this fact because we are probably the only Parliament in the European Union where the Prime Minister simply refuses to inform what is happening at the European Council before or after. Even during the Bulgarian Presidency felt that there was no time to inform parliament. Returning to parliament, I hope you can help create another culture of interaction between government and parliament. In this direction, the Committee on European Affairs is preparing some proposals. I hope they meet broad support. Finally, a bit of a joke, but indeed, before Christmas we end with a positive news from the Bulgarian Parliament. Today there will be one Minister of GERB less. I recall the position of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria that we expect the resignation of the entire government, so today is just a good start. We're waiting for the next steps. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u6	Thank you. Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I do not share skepticism, nihilism, and sarcasm in the speech of the pre-negotiate. I would like to begin my speech with the following. Today we are looking at the draft decision to close the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. As has become clear to many, this is a cause for criticism, a reason to debase and denigrate what has been achieved over the past period. For others, perhaps this is just a formal rejection of a item on the National Assembly's agenda, but I wish in today's debate we could achieve the following. First of all, we should look back and honestly and objectively appreciate what the Ministry, the Bulgarian government, Bulgaria in the period of the Presidency and the Trio. I wish the European topics would be heard and discussed in the National Assembly. I would also like to give fair and deserved recognition to the Bulgarian government, to the Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, to her team and to all more than 1500 representatives of the Bulgarian administration who worked wholeheartedly, hardly and extremely actively, if you will, to take into account what we have done to the Bulgarian parliamentarians, within the framework of the interparliamentary meetings and events for the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency and all of this in order to achieve the success of the Bulgarian Presidency. I think it is undoubtedly that the first Bulgarian rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a success - success for Bulgaria. Yes, this was the first presidency of Bulgaria. It started with very strong expectations.. started with tensions, with attempts to speculate, with attempts to suggest that Bulgaria and the Bulgarian government will not be able to cope, went into an extremely intense pace, ended with an assessment given not only by our society, by us, but by our external partners to successfully and effectively carry out this important task. This was a historic period for the Bulgarian political history and the development of our country as a worthy member of the European Union. This was a responsible task, which we dealt with in the best possible way against the background of the serious situation in the European and international context, with the challenges also arising from Brexit, arising from the risks of migration flows, the risks to security, climate change, the risks arising from widespread populism and turmoil in traditional policy. During this period Bulgaria was not just a mediator, but a leader. Bulgaria has proven to be a reliable, responsible and decisive partner. The establishment of the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency was a decision that we took in the National Assembly on 4 May 2017 and this was a clear sign of the importance of preparing and holding the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 and our participation in the Trio " Estonia," Bulgaria, Austria. The Bulgarian government demonstrates professional capacity not only at political but also at expert level. The creation of a specialised ministry, which centrally coordinates the overall preparation and implementation, was a working model that allows for better flexibility, better interaction in a political and organizational expert and greater efficiency of work. The Ministry's functional obligations did not run out of the official conclusion of the Bulgarian Presidency on 30 June 2018, but at the end of the Trio period, as enshrined in the practice of the Council of the European Union and the Government Management Programme. The preparation was a test, the implementation was a cause for a cause that united the entire Bulgarian society. As a result, Bulgaria has proved that our country can, that our country is a worthy and equal member of the European Union, has gained international prestige and has become much more recognizable. The estimates were high.. estimates given by our European partners and by the people, as polls show. In the legislative sphere, a significant success was achieved, 78 legislative files were adopted and closed, important international meetings were held, which our country hosted. Perhaps the most significant of them was the European Union Summit (EU) Western Balkans, and the signed declaration during this meeting is an extremely important strategic document that outlines the path forward for the integration of the Western Balkan countries. The meeting in Varna in the European Union format was also important. For the Bulgarian Presidency, we can sum up efficiency and efficiency at relatively modest costs. Compared to other countries, the rotating presidents, in the last five years Bulgaria has really managed to manage economically because the costs of other countries ranged between 42 and 93 million. EUR against the backdrop of 31 million. euros spent on the Bulgarian Presidency to be held in the best possible organized and effective way. The Bulgarian Presidency has managed to fulfil several very important functions.. was a political leader, was an honest mediator, was an administrator and coordinator who is responsible for preparing and coordinating the work of the Council of the European Union and holding the numerous meetings in a different format of the Council. The Bulgarian Presidency also implements a strong parliamentary dimension. The benefits for Bulgaria can, in my opinion, be outlined in several areas of political, economic, social, administrative, cultural, image and legislative law. The political benefits for our country are that it has taken its important and strategic place in the European Union and in the world, set a new political line, brought out and imposed the important themes for Europe theme of the Western Balkans, stood important political decisions and managed to convince its partners of the importance of the priorities of our programme. The economic benefits are related to stimulating competitiveness and digital innovations and technologies, social benefits, working for the benefit of citizens, their needs for their children and families, for equal work and personal life, for social interests for employment and training. The administrative benefits are lasting for Bulgaria with the prospect of creating sustainable administrative capacity of the Bulgarian institutions. The Presidency helped to gain considerable experience from the Bulgarian public administration regarding European issues, the way the institutions of the European Union function and multilateral diplomacy, as well as the organization of events of a different nature. Therefore, it is important to preserve this administrative capacity. Cultural benefits. More people had the opportunity to get to know our traditions, language, cultural values and history. The good performance of our country contributed to the improvement of Bulgaria's overall image. In legislative and legal terms, Bulgaria managed to close more than 50% of the planned files for the entire Trio period. This is indeed an essential achievement. At the beginning of the Presidency, many were skeptical. Now our country has become not only more visible but also more convincing in launching its vision for the European process. I think the Presidency has helped raise our national self-esteem, the self-esteem of Bulgarian citizens. Taking into account the results of the work within both the six-month Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the Trio, we appreciate what Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has done, by the entire government, for the implementation of the priorities and the undisputed achievements of the Bulgarian Presidency, are highly recognized. I would like to congratulate Minister Lilyana Pavlova and her team once again on their outstanding contribution and dedication to being remembered as a really important historical event in Bulgarian history the first Presidency of the European Union, to congratulate the administration employees in the various departments involved in this process. Colleagues, we have a difficult and interesting year ahead of us. The task of all of us is to continue to work in the same spirit. I really want this constructive spirit to be preserved, to work together for European ideas and values, to be responsible and honest, to face problems, to recognize mistakes and weaknesses, but to look together for solutions and to appreciate positive things. Above all, and above all, to make Europe and European policies and institutions more understandable, closer to the people and corresponding to their needs and needs, to validate European values in order for a United Europe to have it! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Petrov, come in. [[Strength and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I want to start with a joke first, and it's that these microphones are largely made so that they serve as if the lower people [[beeping and laughing]] And when people like me stand up, they say they can't hear them, but when Mr. Ivanov comes, they must pick them up and they become vertical. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u9	Closer to the microphone, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u10	Today I will not speak, as the day is such that I compare a vision for Bulgaria with a future for Bulgaria. You remember that Mrs. Nino's predecessor promised us a future for Bulgaria and you saw what future we have, and now she promises us a vision for Bulgaria and will remain to see what this vision will be. [[Radio.]] However, the truth is that today we are dealing with a serious issue, and it is what Bulgaria does with the important ones, so to speak, cases in its history, how it evaluates them, how it evaluates the people who have dealt with them. I think the Presidency of Bulgaria was a peak in validating our country as an equal member in the European civilization to which we chose to belong. Perhaps many of you know what European civilization is, what Chinese culture is, what Russian culture is, but European civilization is civilization, and we can only rejoice that we have become part of it. In this regard, I would like to express my opinion that Bulgaria is different. After that Presidency Bulgaria was able to draw attention not only to Europe, but also to the global public's problems that it put as a focus of its Presidency, and this is not a small one! Then the Presidency of Bulgaria is viewed differently because it put its finger in the wound as I sometimes allow myself in my speeches to put my finger in the wound and to say that "Vision for Bulgaria" is something harmful. [[Noise, laughter, applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u11	Did you put your finger on it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u12	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u13	And in this regard, we put our finger in the wound and said that the Western Balkans are a key issue for Europe and it must be solved. And all this time, it's done by Mrs. Pavlova's team. And it is a good thing that this decision has been made to have the Ministry of European Presidency, to put questions to the Council of Ministers, to decide. Here, of course, I do not want to belittle the role of the Foreign Ministry, because without it we would not be able to implement all these initiatives both in the width and in the depth of their implementation. There is an announcement for a possible post somewhere in a warm place in an embassy, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done a lot of work anyway, the Foreign Policy Committee too. Not to mention our committee, which was led by an opposition member by Mr Vigenin, but has done a very important job in the parliamentary dimension of our Presidency. [[(Applause and screams:]] I would like to stress that perhaps all those criticisms that were spilled in connection with the planned funds, which had to be spent on the organisation of the Presidency, are now in the air, because the funds that have been spent have turned out to be 22 million. Less than planned. I do not see that being mentioned in the press at all, and it is important that our 30 million are compared. EUR, which was practically spent under the Presidency, with those 187 million. EUR of another country, or those that were before us and after us, of 70 million. Euros. They don't mention them! The media is involved in gossip and show programs. That's not interesting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u14	Closer to the microphone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u15	I want to compare my personal impressions. Well, I've already complained. I have already complained that microphones do not correspond to the growth of some higher MPs! I would like to compare this immediately: what Estonia did before us for example and what Austria did after us with regard to the organisation of the parliamentary sessions related to the Presidency. Estonia is a complete security tragedy. I was wondering about these crowds that were totally disorganized in the buses, and I thought I wouldn't get to the place where the meetings would be held. [[Noise and lines.]] Everyone who came was getting on the buses. No order! [[Noise and lines.]] As far as security is concerned, I can tell you there was an excellent organization. There was an excellent organization in every way! I can say that Estonia held its meetings in a basketball hall and Austria in a dungeon [[noise, lines, laughter]] Compared to our NDK and this jewelry that was built on the seventh floor. Right? We should be proud of what we have done and compare ourselves to those who look down on us. Right? They say: what are these Bulgarians there, what are our obstacles to the Western Balkans, and I do not know what you are? They've closed the border, people can't go through now, and we can respect the rights of those who want to migrate to other countries. [[Noise and lines.]] However, I would like to draw attention to an important issue, and it is important to us in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u16	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u17	We are not a country with infinite resources. We're not a country with many specialists. I think that in this regard we did not do what was necessary at the beginning of the organisation of this Presidency itself, in the sense that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u18	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u19	There's plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u20	...it was necessary to consider and track down the people who entered the organisation of this Presidency and then be invited to continue their work in other state institutions. I don't know if any of you know who the organizer was, who was in charge of the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency? What was that guy's name? [[Noise and lines.]] Come on, laugh now! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u21	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u22	That's too bad. That's too bad. That's too bad. This guy is a nice, serious guy. [[Laughter]] , with a nice team arranged everything so that you, dear colleagues, did not realize that there was some scandal. There were no scandals, there were no accompanying problems for Bulgaria. On the contrary, everything went well. These six events were organized flawlessly. And now this whole team is leaving. Where's he going? He's been suspended since January 1st! The Ministry is shutting down. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, of course, would do what she had to do. However, let Mrs. Zaharieva commit herself to still putting this issue before the Council of Ministers for the people who participated in the event, especially young people, to follow up on what happens to them after the Presidency. They're our capacity, and we need to keep an eye on them. And enough with this previous way of working, where BSP comes and kicks out all personnel of GERB. The President and he says, "When the time comes, in the governments, I will cast you all out!" [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Enough of this! We need to stick to the footage of the smart ones, the smart ones, the young people in particular, and maintain them in their development. I would like to say on my behalf and a great thank you to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova personally, because she yesterday, with a broken leg, which she broke during her duties, [[noise, lines, laughter and cheering:]] came and respected our committee, and answered mostly all questions. Thank you. [[(Applause and screams:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u24	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Petrov raised my mood after Mr. Vigenin didn't. [[(Noise and lines:]] However, I cannot miss the speech of the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I understand it because there is no way a representative of the opposition who was given the confidence to lead the most important committee during the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union to give only positive assessments about this. Mr. Vigenin, you have been given the confidence, you have been given the freedom and opportunity to work for this Presidency. I believe that this opportunity will be reflected in your CV and will help your future plans, which I do not mind. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] However, I am not afraid to say out loud that this Commission should not have been given to the opposition. This Commission should not have been on a parietal principle, it should have been proportionate. More MPs should have been involved in the work during the Presidency, because this is a useful job and experience remains, remains self-esteem. What we have done and is appreciated outside, I think it should also be assessed inside the country. A Presidency is successful when we politicians manage to work well with the administration. I think we did it. We have given good priorities that have been quite well coordinated with the opposition. I appreciate the work of both the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (Bulgarian Socialist Party) for the results we achieved during this Presidency. I think it's too early to make grades. We tried to make them all positive at first. We will see the priorities that we have set out mainly foreign policy because they are in my field of work, whether they will be continued by the next trio presidency, which will be Romania, Finland, Croatia. I was in Romania recently. The coworkers are pretty worried about what's waiting for them. It's a very difficult organization. Now let's see how we dealt with the organization. I think I have the right to say a few words about this because I have worked very hard for it, especially on the parliamentary dimension. Our advice to the first Romanian Presidency is not to underestimate the parliamentary dimension, because it gives the greatest external impression of what is being done in the country and gives the biggest advertisement for the country that is presiding. It's really hard! The important thing is what will remain after the Presidency of Bulgaria and after the priorities that were set by the Presidential Trio " Estonia," Bulgaria, Austria. It is important for us, as a country presiding for the first time, to remain trusting us. Brussels is a big machine, a big grinder, which, after the elections for a new composition of the European Parliament and a new European Commission, will quickly forget which individuals were there and how they showed up in those 18 months of the Trio. However, it is important for us to see whether we will succeed after we have completed the Presidency, to enter at least one of the European Union's integration processes, I mean Schengen. I hope that happens soon. This is a political decision that needs to be taken. I say it will happen soon because it is a political decision, and the Eurozone is not exactly because there is still enough work to be done for it. So we will see what reviews and assessments we will receive after the new composition of the European Commission. I hope that Europe's leaders will be better than the current ones, because we need leaders both in our country and in the European Union, because we know how things are going. In the Western Balkans, the situation is not good. We know about the problems that started soon between Kosovo and Serbia. I am also referring to the creation and resolution of an armed force of Kosovo called an army, so it is very difficult to predict what will happen. Whether Brexit ends up with a deal or not, we don't know either. I can't help but mention another area of integration in which I think Bulgaria should work more, and this is the new sphere of integration in the field of defence. There are more specialists here than I do, but let's not leave this just to the big Member States. I want to thank everyone who was able to endure both physically and emotionally all the workload, because here we were, but there were people who worked hard all the time. Congratulations to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova's team! I congratulate Mr. Tsanchev's team in the permanent representation in Brussels because they have done a huge job! Let us not forget the achievement of our parliamentary dimension. I cannot help but boast that at our Conference on a common foreign and security policy and defence policy, we are the last country to adopt a Common Declaration by consensus of all the leaders of delegations, which does not happen two presidencies backwards, and now, in the Austrian, will not happen in the Romanian Presidency. I can't help but say that for the first time in Bulgaria we also hosted the parliamentary control of Europol. Let us not forget that we have succeeded there after long negotiations to make it possible to adopt the rules of employment at this conference. I don't think we need any more grades. We expect the assessments of the Bulgarian priority, namely the enlargement of the European Union, to become clear in my opinion after the end of the next trio, after the Presidency of Croatia, to see what awaits us further. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u26	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Bulgaria held a traditional rotating Presidency of the European Union, Presidency, which was technically very well served. But what is the Presidency? It was the Presidency that was the opportunity to achieve a trust in Bulgaria by the European Union. We hope that this trust will indeed be protected from now on. As a movement for rights and freedoms, we supported the main topics related to the priorities set by the Presidency. In the Commission, we worked for our presentation and for our good European image. The subject of the Western Balkans is precisely one of the topics that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is always following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u28	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Secretary, colleagues! I will be very brief because I believe that this is not the time to take stock and assess our European Presidency, but I will try to stick to the decision that we are going to take today. Of course, we will support it, but I think it is inconvenient and should have been done earlier. First of all, because it is strange to have a Ministry when the entity who makes sense of the existence of such a ministry has been absent for more than half a year, namely the end of the Presidency. For the Troika was quite enough a compact coordination unit to carry out all the necessary activities, and the arguments from the Ministry for the continuation of this office were extremely untenable. By the way, two days ago, I was listening to the minister's report. It focuses on the funds that were spent and those that were saved, but it didn't say how much we missed to save if we closed this office six months ago. Was the Ministry successful? Maybe from an organizational point of view, yes, but somehow illogically his functions have been washed away because from organizational-administrative-information they have transformed into political ones. I think, first of all, that it shouldn't have been done, and second of all, this office didn't have the capacity to do it. Although it was not his job to deal with political functions, the other day in the report the office boasted n in number of closed files, and I believe, first of all, that they had a protocol character and, on the other hand, the responsibility for these closed files was the individual ministries whose portfolio issues were being dealt with. Thirdly, it did not mention who was responsible for the policies that had not been completed. For example, the package was vital to the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian carriers, and the government escaped responsibility and left this issue to be resolved by the Austrian Presidency, and you know that Austria's interest is diametrically opposed to the Bulgarian one. In my opinion, the big problem was precisely this mixing of functions. In conclusion, Bulgaria was really good at organizing meetings, but was not good at making policies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u29	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When assessing a past period and activity, the facts must be put first, and we should always strive to be just and to tell the truth. The truth is: the truth is that Bulgaria presented itself brilliantly thanks to the work of the executive, thanks to the work of Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, who handled her duties perfectly thanks to the work of all ministers who were subjected to six-month stress daily. I am speaking as a recent representative of the executive, who may have been least engaged with the Presidency, but I would like to inform you that a large part of almost all ministers did not have Saturdays, they did not have Sundays, they were loaded, I repeat, with a very heavy regime in which they were literally travelling during the day, they fulfilled their commitments perfectly as hosts in the respective portfolios, but, on the other hand, they were doing their job. For these six months, Bulgaria's governance in no way allowed weakness, a discount back in the performance of its duties and as ministers. That is what must be appreciated and must be said. Once again I repeat: Bulgaria has done brilliantly as a result of the very good work of Minister Pavlova and the other colleagues, and as has been said, in the implementation of the Presidency were realized savings, but there are also material, completed infrastructure sites, which now remain for Bulgaria, and it is not just the NDK. Those are the facts, that's the truth. I keep saying that I was closest to them, and that's why I can say it. If we are to give a summary, I can tell you that, as a result of the Presidency, a huge part of our European partners and citizens of European countries have learned about Bulgaria, and only good things. This was an achievement for the rating of Bulgaria and not so much for the rating of the government. And in conclusion, if I have to give a general, summary assessment, of course, I am currently giving it as a representative of the National Assembly and it is my personal assessment, I am giving the assessment 5.5 s for the overall result of the work on the Presidency of Bulgaria. And this half, which does not reach for an excellent one, unfortunately, is about the shortcomings that showed Bulgaria's political strata as a whole, which is the one during this six-month period, when it was the perfect moment, the perfect time to show some unity, national unity, unfortunately, this was not shown. It was done everything possible to destabilize or preserve this function of executive power. It wasn't protests, it wasn't union rallies, it wasn't no no-confidence vote, it wasn't a hug of plagued goats...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u31	Shall we extend the time, Mr. Simeonov? You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u32	...and whatnot. That's what left a bad impression after all, but couldn't ruin the good results. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u34	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Bulgaria we are accustomed whenever something ends well, to find people who immediately criticize or do not report what is done. I would like us to be a little more positive and to show that our country has actually succeeded in presenting itself successfully in its first European Presidency since our accession to the European Union. I am glad that despite this challenge, which happened six months earlier for Bulgaria, after the decision of the UK to leave the European Union, you know that the Bulgarian administration was really subjected to extremely serious stress. I want, first of all, to take into account what the Bulgarian administration has done and the built administrative capacity for this period because the Trio Estonia What was extremely important is that out of all 105 inherited files from the Estonian Presidency there were 30 new ones that the Bulgarian Presidency had to take over and try to realize them as hard as possible. Of all these files 78 ended in the Bulgarian Presidency. I want to report that 1550 employees from 35 institutions worked tirelessly so that our country can actually present itself in the best possible way. There was no delegation, there was not a single informal council held in our country, there was no complaint of either purely organizational or the debates that were held on the relevant sectoral policies by the relevant ministers in these informal councils. We had a wonderful summit where we really gave a serious emphasis on continuing the policy to outline the European perspective for the Western Balkans. That our country 15 years later brought up as one of the main priorities of the Western Balkans, became one of the main highlights in the Austrian Presidency, I think that each of us should be sufficiently satisfied with what Bulgaria has done and what we have presented to Europe. Bulgaria is very different today because we have the European legitimization of all European leaders and of all the Member States that successfully assessed the Presidency. I didn't exactly expect you, Mr. Vigenin, to be so critical and so irresponsible in everything you said. Despite your critical words, I would like to thank you for the fact that in the meetings that were of parliamentary dimension, you had a highly responsible national political culture and showed that whether you are from the opposition or from the government, we represented Bulgaria and showed it in a dignified way. However, today in the Chamber you have actually brought us back to something that I thought at least for you this was not serious. I would like to thank Jemma Grozdanova, I would like to thank Ivelina Vasileva; I would like to thank the Defence Committee and General Konstantin Popov because they had an attitude and commitment to the parliamentary dimension of our country; I would like to thank my colleagues from the Internal Commission, because with the Bulgarian Presidency we have managed to close the file relating to the adoption of the procedural rules for establishing the Joint Parliamentary Group for parliamentary control of Europol. These are confessions to be reported by all countries. The most important thing is that in all these closed files will be discussed in the future about Bulgaria, and indeed perhaps the time, as Jemma Grozdanova said, will enable us to do an objective review of everything we have done in the European Presidency. After the Trio, I want to wish Romania success, because Romania will also have its first presidency, and Romania and Bulgaria are the countries that have their first presidency. I am convinced that Romania, as well as Bulgaria, will be very successful. We are waiting for the Romanian Presidency and our country together with Romania to join the Schengen area. Here I would like to thank all the political European families who once again confirmed their readiness for our country after meeting all the criteria for our accession to Schengen since 2019. I would also like to thank the opposition because, both the liberals and the European Socialists, despite the differences between the national representatives of BSP in Bulgaria, and especially to thank Sergey Stanishev, who was elected president of the PES again. It has also initiated that the European Parliament can categorically rule on another declaration of our country's readiness. At the end of the year, colleagues from BSP, there is no point in being aggressive, there is no point in being non-reflective, because objectivity comes from the results given by the Member States, the European Commission and the European Parliament. I am proud that we, the people's representatives in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, have had the opportunity to accept the challenge of being in the Trio Estonia. I would like to thank Lilyana Pavlova because still let's acknowledge the 284 events held within six months, 12 informal councils, one summit, believe me, this is a huge work of all those who have participated in this process. Here we should also thank the administration of the Bulgarian Parliament because they also had their parliamentary dimension and their commitment to preparing all these meetings, which were on the parliamentary line. I would like to thank Lily Pavlova, the Council of Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva because the government created the necessary organization to meet 35 thousand delegates in these six months and over 40 thousand foreigners total were in Bulgaria. This means that our country already has a much more serious legitimization, we have the opportunity indeed much more dignified to defend our country in every next Presidency of the European Union. Let us be positive for the European perspective of the Western Balkans. Indeed, in the upcoming 2019, as a finishing trio, apart from the support that we have to give to Romania, which takes over the new trio, let us say something positive about what is to happen in the country in 2019. From 1 January 2019 the town of Plovdiv has hosted as a European cultural capital. This is also recognition of everyone's efforts, whether they are on the left, on the right, whether they are from the center. Let us be proud that we will be able to glorify our country again with our history and culture. Let us, of course, be more positive and not start any such Presidency or such initiative with whether the tiles around the NDK are ready or not, whether this is the problem of the priorities of a Presidency. Mrs. Pavlova, you have every reason to be proud of the entire administration that you've brought out everything related to the Presidency. I would like to thank once again our colleagues from BSP, from Volja.................................................................................................... Let us show once that Bulgaria has presented itself worthy of a political event from which we can actually take into account benefits for everyone because they are for our country, for all Bulgarian citizens and for the whole of Europe. Thank you. I would like to call on my fellow Members to really be a little more humble when we go out and take account of the activities of the Bulgarian Presidency. It was extremely successful and it was perfect, as Mr. Valeri Simeonov said. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I just want to assure you that within these six months and then in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, we have worked overpartyly with the feeling that we have a duty to Bulgaria to do as well as possible in this Presidency. It can also be confirmed by colleagues from different political forces. At the same time, we should say that the problems arose when important issues for Bulgaria, when this Presidency, which was Bulgarian and not GERB, were used to make party propaganda. This was one of the reasons why some of the good initiatives during this Presidency were attacked because an occasion was given. But these are past questions. Perhaps each of us has drawn our conclusions. I would like to say to you that the decision of your parliamentary group to give this position to the opposition was positive because this enabled the Bulgarian Parliament to really present itself as a united one in the initiatives and priorities that we have proposed as a Bulgarian Parliament. At the same time, however, today's discussion shows what I said in my speech: I think there is a much more serious commitment of the Prime Minister on European issues here with the Bulgarian Parliament. Today on a discussion, which is on a very specific occasion, the closing of the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency, we have analyzed the successes and failures of the Bulgarian Presidency, above all the successes. Why? I believe that this report, which was adopted at the Council of Ministers this week, was to be presented here by the Prime Minister and to have a real discussion on both our problems and achievements for these six months and on those for the Trio. Now what are we really doing? On a very specific topic, we do big analyses and go back months. This is where the problems come from, and I really appeal to try to solve them in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Will there be a hole? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that this particular point has become a reason for retrospect for what has been done in the months of the Bulgarian Presidency. Of course the administration did a good job. Of course we've shown how well we can organize such events. There's nothing wrong with that. That's nice. They should be praised, but at the same time, we should really be glad that we are going to work and that it is normal for certain people to do the work for which they are elected by parliament, does not fit here to have such debates. However, the results of this Presidency are important. From now on, I would like to state firmly, as I see a euphoria of possible future results on our accession to the Schengen area if Bulgaria is not accepted as a full member in this area by air, water and drought, this means that it will be a complete failure for the government and for this Presidency. I don't want us to get the impression that once you see everything, it's beautiful. Here, if we only talked about the Ministry's work, about what was done, maybe it wouldn't have come to a reaction from us. You see, when it comes to national causes and priorities, I think we were constructive. I think even with the debate on the tiles, as Mr. Tsvetanov said, we have achieved concrete results. After all, the bitter taste remained, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, once again for the Europeans to have a renovated hall and entrance, and for the other Bulgarian citizens there will be no repairs. Mr. Tsvetanov, the tiles in front of the NDK are already broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Will there be a duplicate, Mr. Tsvetanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not go into my answer to the way the line was made by you, Mr. Stoinev, because I want to finish my speech a little more positive. What Mr. Vigenin said that the Presidency was perceived as the Presidency of GERB, we did not see it as the Presidency of Bulgaria and we have worked and protected the national interests. That you made a no-confidence vote before and during the Presidency, in fact you may have had a similar feeling that this is the chairmanship of GERB, but this is your problem, it is not a problem of Bulgaria and everyone who participated in it. However, I would like to thank my colleagues from the BSP because they also made a significant contribution to the successful Presidency, because all MPs had their commitments in the parliamentary dimension. I think I'd better finish with the positive and wish you luck, Mr. Stoinev. I hope that you will become more positive and more constructive in your next speeches in 2019. Perhaps this year you are already very tired. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read the two solutions. First, I will read the draft decision on structural changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Project! DECISION: The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, para. Article 7 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 May 2017. HAS DECIDED 1. He closed the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 in connection with the conclusion of the rotating Trio Presidency Estonia The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 of the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 May 2017 the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. Instructs the Council of Ministers, within two months, to arrange all matters relating to the closure of the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. 195 MPs voted: 193, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the second draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, para 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the Decision of the National Assembly on the Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017, Decisions on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018 and Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018. HAS DECIDED Releases Ljiljana Pavlova as Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 in connection with the completion of the rotating Trio Presidency Estonia " 31 December 2018" with effect from 1 January 2019 Vote 191 MPs: for 190, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the point. Let's thank Mrs. Pavlova and Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva. Moving on to point two: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECURRENCE OF THE INDEPENDENTLY ACCOMPANYING OF THE EMPLOYMENT No 854-01-87. Mr. Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, adopted on 10 December 2018, adopted at the first vote on 14 December 2018. Please, Mr. Kirilov, introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-87, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 10 December 2018, adopted at the first vote on 14 December 2018. The Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property was amended and supplemented by the Law on Countering Corruption. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 1.. the text of the importer, proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 153 is supplied by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The procedure of the so-called civil borrowing, as well as the entire activity of the Commission, may only be a follow-up function for the execution of the forfeiture of the property acquired by criminal activity only after it has been proven in the course of a trial. What the Commission is doing to counter corruption and take away illegally acquired property is not at the service of the public, but at the expense of it, because the benefits of any conviction for violation of rights and damage will be at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayers! I will not comment on turning the Commission into an expropriation or bankruptcy tool for individuals who are accused or uncomfortable with the government because all human rights organizations and authoritative lawyers have been pronounced on the subject. I would just like to ask if the Legal Commission and the contributors are aware that these amendments may have been ordered and drawn up here in the National Assembly, where the policy is leading, but must be applied outside this building, in civil society, and it can no longer tolerate the creeping totalitarianism that you are introducing. This commission, as well as the legitimization of its actions, is part of GERB's populism, trying to convince yourself that you are ready to fight corruption, but to whom and how it happens to be under your control. No commission could be more effective than the independent court and prosecution in exercising control over your authority and actions, because it is the executive who controls and disposes of the fundamental element of corruption practices that is the financial resource. Bulgaria has taken its course as a European rule of law and these crude attempts to treat human rights outside the norms already established in the community are merely discrediting your capacity as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The current bill has sparked a stormy debate in the Legal Commission in both its readings at both first and second readings yesterday. My statement will be legal, but I think it's more than enough for the non-jurists. I was motivated yesterday. I hope you'll understand what I'm saying. When an accusation has been brought against one person by the Prosecutor's Office of Bulgaria and/or there is an effective verdict that it is guilty precisely on certain compositions, which are referred to in this special law, the mechanism of civil confiscation can be initiated. However, when the court gives no other act to one person and the case is closed for no other reason, but because, according to all the facts and evidence collected in the case, the court considers that it is innocent, the civil confiscation according to these texts will continue. And it will continue because the importer is motivated that it is against unexplained wealth. In our legislation, in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, there is the same hypothesis when a citizen acquires property, makes expenses, buys goods, travels, and his income is much smaller, then the tax authorities carry out revision in special cases, taxing this property, which is more than proven, taxing it, but not confiscating it. I ask the same questions from the first reading, and now by what is the person who is innocent and has inexplicable property, why in one case do you take it away from him and in the next case you take it away from him? Somehow it says in the Constitution that private property is inviolable. He finishes the proceedings, says he's innocent, and we take property. In the next case, an innocent man too, we do not take, but we benefit. This is a legal question that I have put, and for me it is preventing the text from being supported in this form. Apart from that, the upper para. 5 gives a sufficiently clear answer to the question. In our opinion, this al. Six is redundant. For this reason, we will not support the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a few more arguments to the fact that Mr. Milkov, the speaker before me, pointed out. Article 108, para. 4 of the current law says that the verification under this chapter begins and continues regardless of the suspension or termination of criminal proceedings. This is valid for the first pre-trial phase of the confiscation proceedings. For the judicial phase is quite enough, as Mr. Milkov said. 53, para. 5 of the current law. The proceedings shall be initiated and continued independently of the termination of criminal proceedings. These two norms are sufficient to solve the problem of the SCC's solution. The cleverly made reference to the new regime, including these two texts, is possible and sufficient. Instead, we have a proposal under § 1 of the Project, which opens up new questions and will generate future problems. Apparently, one of the importers felt that turning property checks into virtually timeless, as the new and withdrawn para predicted. Article 7 153, directly contrary to the Constitution. The new and maintained para. 6 is absolutely unnecessary given the current para. 5. Moreover, it will lead to questions: but does it constitute an obstacle to the conduct of the proceedings to suspend the criminal proceedings of some of the grounds referred to or not mentioned in the new law but contained in the PPC? Thirdly, the thinking and the way this amendment is being carried out gives the impression that we are outputting ourselves with someone, in particular with the Supreme Judicial Authority, or hardly anyone has a personal drama in relations with the VCC. Let us be clear: we are legislators in the conditions of a parliamentary republic and we do not outpace ourselves with anyone. The offer is not good and needs further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u49	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As is known, the ruling majority submitted a draft amendment and supplement to the Anti-Corruption Act, as well as additional proposals that were withdrawn during the discussion. My fellow Members, the rule of law is based on the principle of protecting citizens' rights and not on the rights of the institutions. The legal state means such a legal institutional order that protects the fundamental rights of citizens: their right to life, the right to property, the right to the protection of the individual. The proposed changes by the Legal Commission are a shame for every legal professional community.. what is proposed is a refusal of the rule of law and I hope that the institutions in the state, civil society, public opinion will react sharply to this pseudo-legal arbitrariness. What does that involve? The proposal that has been made means that no more, no less, a person who has been declared innocent by the court to continue to tolerate sanctions. There's no such principle in law. There can be no sentence of innocence and continue proceedings, which imposes a penalty on an innocent man. I do not know with which eyes lawyers and other legal experts can protect such norms. This is a compromise with the conscience of man, the citizen, a compromise with democracy, a compromise with the institutional structure based on the principle of separation of powers. Attempts to empower a body such as the Commission, which was mentioned earlier, with additional anti-constitutional powers will not go unnoticed by the human rights defenders, by the human rights organizations, by the Bulgarian public opinion! What you are proposing is a disgrace to the constitutional order, anti-constitutional norms, which have one single objective of limiting and suspending citizens' rights. I cannot allow certain Democrats of the ruling majority to stand behind such texts, put forward with fictional arguments by the President of the Legal Committee and by the majority in this committee. I express my regret to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, whose name contains the word "laws" and whose party was created to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens. A sharper, more flutuous violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens than these amendments to this law, as well as the whole spirit of this law, there is none. I am convinced that the next majorities in this National Assembly will abolish this legislation, and the people who proposed it will bear their responsibility to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Are there any lines? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Jablyanov, I will try minimally to participate in this debate. On the Legal Committee, we had a serious clash of legal ones. However, I take a line with you to ask you if you have read Constitutional Case No. 13 of 2012? This institute is established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its composition is not the previous composition. There are detailed reasons for the part of the "Restraint of Rights" and in the name of what value these rights are limited. I'm going that way. I appreciate your pathos. Cancel it when you can, take all the consequences of this legal action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Zablyanov? [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're gonna vote, guys! Is there any violation? [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We'll vote! We vote when I make a decision. If you want, we'll run a name check?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u54	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u55	I will put you to the vote and give you the floor, dear Mr. Popov. I'm not gonna say no in the manner of conduct, but I'm gonna ask you... I understand. We'll give it to you. I will put two texts to the vote: firstly, the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; and, secondly, the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Vote 167 MPs: 95, against 64, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Transitional provision. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u57	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u58	By procedure, Mr. Chairman. In view of the opposition colleagues' reaction, I propose a separate vote on the individual paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u59	Do I need to put this proposal to the vote? I shall put to the vote separately in accordance with paragraphs. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 95 against 65 abstentions 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the removal of § 3. Vote 170 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 3. The proposal for the removal of § 3 by importer shall be accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u60	Dear Mr President, you have fully justified the Commission's motion to dismiss § 3. In this situation, after we have decided and voted that there will be no § 3, please put to the vote the name "Transition provision" to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u61	I will put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 171 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of our work programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW OF ATMOSFER AIR. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. Adopted in first vote on 16 November 2018. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u62	I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall for Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Ivan Angelov, Director of the Department of Air Cleanness and Industrial Pollution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u63	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 125 MPs: 123, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the representatives of the institution to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u64	The report on a draft amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018, adopted at the first vote on 16 November 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the cleanliness of the air (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, I have a request: please be quiet! Take your seats. It's pretty loud in the hall. Some conversations could also be held outside the plenary of the wicked. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote three texts: the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 and 2 by importer supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u66	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 2 shall be inserted in Chapter 2. Art. 8a. 8b: Art. 8a. (1) The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Economy and the Chairman of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, shall adopt a regulation setting out the requirements for the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating, as well as the conditions, arrangements and manner of control of the quality of solid fuels. (2) It shall be prohibited to place on the market solid fuels which do not meet any of the quality requirements laid down in the Regulation under para. 1. (3) It shall be prohibited to provide and/or distribute solid fuels which do not meet the requirements for quality, packaging and labelling laid down in the regulation under para. 1. (4) The type of packaging and the label shall be defined in the ordinance under para. 1. (5) Solid fuels in their placing and/or making available on the market and/or distribution shall be accompanied by a declaration of compliance with the quality requirements for each batch, hereinafter referred to as the (6) The distribution of solid fuels by persons and/or objects not listed in the register under art. 86, para. 1. Art. 8b. (1) The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall establish and maintain a register of persons distributing solid fuels and sites where solid fuels are distributed. (2) The activities of the distribution of solid fuels shall be carried out by the persons and bodies listed in the register under para. 1. (3) In the register under para. 1 entry persons who: 1. are registered under the Commercial Law; 2. are not declared bankrupt or are not in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings; 3. have paid a state fee of the amount set out in Tariff No 11 for the fees collected in the system of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision under the Law on State Fees (prom, SG No. ...). (4) For entry in the register under para. 1 persons concerned shall submit an application on a model approved by the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, accompanied by a list of sites where solid fuels will be distributed, indicating their location. (5) Within 14 days of receipt of the application, the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or an official authorised by him shall enter the applicant in the register and inform him of the number under which he is entered, except in cases of established irregularities. (6) The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or an official authorised by him shall inform the applicant in writing of irregularities and shall set a period of up to 14 days for their removal where the applicant has not paid the fee under para. 3, p. 3 or has not applied a list of sites where solid fuels will be distributed. (7) Where it is established that the applicant does not meet the requirements of para. 3, p. The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or an official authorised by him or her shall, within a period of time, refuse entry into the register under para. 1. The refusal to enter shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (8) Within 7 days of a change to the list referred to in para. 4 data The registered person is obliged to inform the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or an official authorised by him shall reflect the changes requested in the register under para. 1. (9) Registration shall be unlimited. (10) The register under para. 1 shall be established and maintained in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 4 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u67	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Milkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will take reference to the text of art. 8b, which is part of § 3 of the proposed Law. The Law further provides a definition of solid fuels and we have a proposal that solid fuels are not just coal and briquettes, but to include the solid fuels. If we answer the question affirmatively: are the firewood solid fuel, what for us is undoubtedly firewood, must be solid fuel. See what the proposed bill says: there will be a register of individuals who will distribute solid fuels, they must be registered traders under the Commercial Law, not declared bankrupt and have paid the fee. I have the following objection in the country there are many cases of non-traders who distribute solid fuels according to the legal definition that you give further in the Bill. I give you an example of the municipalities in Bulgaria can manage their forests in three ways. The municipal enterprise, commercial company or rent them out. When this happens to a municipal enterprise, by defolt it is not an entity registered in the Commercial Law. In this case, will the municipal enterprise be able to distribute them, or will they have to pass through a company? If a natural person owns a forest and has to perform selection cuttings every few years, is not a trader, does not do it by occupation, is not registered in the Commercial Law, will it be able to sell them, distribute them by your definition? In my opinion, the text is not precise because the requirement to be distributed only by traders creates this obstacle for example eliminates municipalities or specific individuals. That's my point. Thank you. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Pencho Milkov.]] I am making a procedural proposal that the texts of paragraphs 3 and 4 be voted separately on the arguments which I have put to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? The line is here, dear Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My line is in the form of a reverse proposal. Frankly, I have not been able to understand much of Mr. Milkov's thesis, or rather, I believe that his thesis is in support of our belief that their proposal related to expanding the definition of solid fuels is illogical and unfounded. Why? Because in the motives of his speech he himself gave an answer to the question: why we do not support extending the definition with their proposal. One definition cannot be mechanically opened and mechanical characteristics of one type of fuel can be transferred to another type, provided that these specifics and characteristics are also related to the way the material is extracted, if you wish, and to the purposes of providing it to consumers. When we are talking about coal and coal briquettes with lower sulphur and ash content, when we are talking about wood, we are aiming for the distribution of dry wood, which is less contaminating the air in this sense I do not support what my colleague has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Another line? I can't see. A hole, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, I use the right of the duplicate because for me, for all the people in the hall and outside, wood is nothing more than firewood, solid fuel cannot be liquid fuel. Of course, there are different types of fuels and they are defined in some groups. For us the wood we have made, together with coal and briquettes are a form of solid fuel. That's why I don't back down from our definition. All I'm paying attention to is that because they're solid fuel, if you have to, they'll only be distributed by traders. We are falling into this predicament for municipalities or individuals individually, in this direction I was told that for example, a trader will not always distribute wood. I don't back down from our thesis, and I keep saying that every sane person knows that wood is solid fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will only put to the vote the version of § 3, which the Commission proposes. They voted 98 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. I put two texts to the vote, the rejection of paragraphs 4 and 5 on an importer proposal by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u74	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by Art. 9f. The obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to reduce the national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, the monitoring of the negative impacts of air pollution on ecosystems, as well as the requirements for the preparation, adoption and implementation of the national air pollution control programme shall be determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u75	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put two texts to the vote: for § 6 by importer, which becomes § 4 and for § 7 by importer, which becomes § 5, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u76	Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u77	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 4 is inserted in Chapter 4. Art. 18c. 18 years: Art. 18c. (1) Persons placing solid fuels on the market shall assess or organise the assessment and verify their compliance with the quality requirements. (2) The order and the way to assess and verify the conformity of solid fuels with the quality requirements shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 8a, para. 1. (3) Persons placing solid fuels on the market shall draw up a declaration of compliance with the quality requirements for each lot. (4) The requirements for the content of the declaration of conformity shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1. (5) Compliance of solid fuels with the quality requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 shall be declared after testing a representative sample of each batch on the basis of the test report. (6) The test under para. 5 shall be carried out in laboratories accredited by the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service or in foreign laboratories accredited by an accreditation body which is a party to mutual recognition agreements in an organisation of which it is a member of the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service. Art. 18 years old. The registered persons under art. 8b, para. 3 are required to distribute only in the register of art. 8b, para. 1 solid fuels, which comply with the quality requirements, are packaged and labelled in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 and accompanied by a declaration of conformity and a copy of the test report for each batch.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u78	Statements? Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We agree to have requirements for the quality of solid fuels, undoubtedly necessary. We agree to have a declaration of compliance when sold, and this quality to be certified, tested in a laboratory. But the new text of Art. 18 requires solid fuels, whether the wood is among them, whether not, even if only for coal and briquettes it is proposed that all coal and briquettes in the country be packed and labelled so that they are distributed. Well, spreading coal in the country is mass for people in bulk. Those who heat themselves to coal order a truckload of coal, it pours out to the house and people pick them up. How does this fit in with the requirement that all coal be packaged and labelled? How would that affect the price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 8, which shall become § 6. Vote 87 MPs: 72 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u81	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 9, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u82	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 9 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 6. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u83	According to § 10, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The competent authorities responsible for ensuring the clean air in the territory of the municipality concerned shall be: 1. The mayors of municipalities and municipal councils by carrying out the actions under art. 27, 28a, 29 and 30; 2. the directors of the RIEW by carrying out the actions under art. 24, p. Art. 1 and Art. 1 28, para. 1; 3. the authorities of the Ministry of Interior by carrying out the actions under art. 24, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 29; 4. the authorities of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications by carrying out the actions under art. 24, p. 2. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The mayors of municipalities and municipal councils are responsible for the management of the elements of municipal infrastructure and municipal activities in order to ensure air cleanliness.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u84	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 10, which shall become § 7. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u85	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 8, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. 9g (s) shall be replaced by the following: It's 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u86	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 8. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u87	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Atanas Kostadinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 27 is amended as Art. 27. (1) In cases where in a given area the total mass of emissions results in excess of the standards for harmful substances (pollutors) in the ambient air and the standards for depositions, the mayors of municipalities shall develop and implement programmes to reduce the levels of pollutants and to reach the established standards under art. 6. Programs are accepted by municipal councils. (2) The mayors of municipalities shall submit to the municipal councils annually by 31 March a report on the implementation of the programmes under para. 1 for the previous calendar year. A copy of the report shall be presented in the relevant RIEW. (3) The report under para. 2 shall be published on the website of the municipality after approval by the municipal council. (4) Programs under para. 1 shall also include: the objectives, measures, steps and deadlines for their achievement; the organisations and institutions responsible for their implementation, the means of securing the programme; the reporting and control system for implementation and the performance evaluation system. (5) In cases where the levels of one or more pollutants exceed the established standards for which the deadline for reaching has expired, the programmes under para. 1 shall include appropriate measures so that the excess period is as short as possible. (6) The implementation of the measures of the programmes under para. 1 should lead to an annual reduction in the number of excesses of the standards for harmful substances and of the annual average levels of pollutants in cases where they are above the specified standards for ambient air quality recorded at the monitoring points of the National Environmental Monitoring System on the territory of the municipality. (7) The reduction under para. 6 shall be assessed for the previous calendar year on the basis of the average of the recorded number of excesses of the standards for harmful substances and of the annual average levels of pollutants for the last three calendar years. The assessment shall be carried out by the RIEW for each individual monitoring point within 30 April of the current year. (8) The requirement under para. 6 shall be deemed to be fulfilled where the annual reduction is registered at each individual monitoring point on the territory of the municipality. (9) In cases where the requirement under para. 6 has not been implemented and no reduction has been achieved in the number of excess standards for harmful substances and the annual average levels of pollutants, the Director of RIEW shall impose a fine, except where non-compliance is due to the activity of a third party. (10) The programmes under para. 1 may be adjusted in cases where the conditions under which they are drawn up have changed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission and in the version of the Commission for § 12, which shall become § 9. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u89	There is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 para. 3 is amended as In the event of apparent disruption of ambient air from motor vehicles, the control bodies of the Ministry of Interior or of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, depending on the owner of the motor vehicle, shall take appropriate action under art. 171, p. Article 2 (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 5, para. 2, p. 2 of the Road Traffic Act against the specific offenders.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u90	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the text proposed, the point is as follows: when the requirements for air cleaning are clearly violated by motor vehicles, the control authorities should impose a forced administrative measure on them a temporary suspension of movement, there is a form of reference to the Road Traffic Act. I oppose such a form of legislation. There's no way that the control body, what's visible to him, is a clear violation of what's going to be a clear breach, something's coming out of the tailpipe. What if, for example, it violates the requirements for air cleanness without being visible? See, that smoking the exhaust pipe may be a reason to stop the vehicle for inspection and with some form of appliance to check whether it exceeds, because in the norm to which you are referring and will fall all the acts, it says: "When the contents of the harmful substances in the exhaust gases are above the established values. So, how, clearly or clearly, can the control body determine the level of the harmful substance? One such norm is a prerequisite for exceptional... if someone allowed themselves to draw up such an individual administrative act to stop a car from moving because it was clearly smoking. That's ridiculous! It can't be anyone's obvious reason for stopping. The obvious to someone can only be a reason to check with a technical device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with the reported content. Vote 87 MPs: 75, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u93	Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Atanas Kostadinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28a the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end to the territory of the whole municipality or part thereof. (b) c. 2 the words "for domestic heating by the population' shall be replaced by "or heating appliances'; (c) c. 3 is then added to certain categories of motor vehicles. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The low emission zones of harmful substances may be introduced by imposing measures, prohibitions and restrictions, including measures under para. 1, t. 2 and 3. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u94	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 11. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u95	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' shall be replaced by the official responsible, and after the word "supplied', the word "supplied' shall be added as well as the control of the quality, packaging and labelling requirements of solid fuels when they are placed on the market and/or made available on the market and/or distributed; (b) c. 1 after the word "the figures', the solids shall be added; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." carry out checks to establish the quality of liquid and solid fuels, taking samples, testing in laboratories accredited by the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service and in foreign laboratories accredited by an accreditation body which is a party to mutual recognition agreements in an organisation of which it is a member of the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service and implements enforcement measures. (d) c. 4 after the word "the figures', the solids shall be added; (e) c. 5 after the word "supplier', is added to the word "supplier', and finally added "supplier', as well as to persons who place and/or make available on the market, and/or distribute solid fuels. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or officials authorised by him shall exercise control over the quality, packaging and labelling requirements of solid fuels at the sites under art. 3, para. 1, t. 6................................................ 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, after the word....the code is added..and the words....the order under art. 8, para. 1s are replaced by the provisions of art. 8, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 8a, para. 1.................................................................................. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes a new para. 4 and in it after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u96	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no statements on the reported text and we are going to vote on it. We are voting for the Commission's text of the importer, in the version of the Commission for § 13, which becomes § 12. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u97	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30b al. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. the following points are inserted 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 shall be added at the end of the period of 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the word "the data', the words "the data' shall be added to "the data'; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the word "Accuracies" shall be added "or hard" and the words "Accordance under art. 8, para. Article 1 (a) is replaced by the procedure referred to in Article 1. 8, para. 1, respectively, the regulation referred to in Article 1. 8a, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the word "liquids', the word "solids' shall be added; 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 after the word "Accuracies" shall be added "or hard" and the words "Accordance under art. 8, para. Article 1 (a) is replaced by the procedure referred to in Article 1. 8, para. 1, respectively, the regulation referred to in Article 1. 8a, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u98	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 14, which becomes § 13. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u99	According to § 15 there is a proposal of Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30c the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "supplier' is added to the word "supplier'; 2. The creation of para. 3: The conditions and procedures for the destruction or free provision of arbitration samples which have not been tested within the period referred to in paragraph 3 shall be laid down. 1, t. 3 shall be defined in the ordinance referred to in Article 3. 8a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u100	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 15, which becomes § 14. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u101	According to § 16 there is a proposal of Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30d the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1: (aa) in the text prior to the letter................................................................................................ (bb) in point (b) (i) (ii) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (c) in point (c) at the end of the test of solid fuel in an accredited laboratory, it has been found that it does not meet any of the quality requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 8a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) c. 2 after the word "fuels', as well as the placing on the market or making available on the market or distribution of solid fuels and after the words "the order under art. 8, para. Article 1 (a) is replaced by the following: 8a, para. 1.................................................................................. (c) c. 3: (aa) in the text prior to the letter (s), after the word (s) the word (s) shall be added to the text (s) and shall be added to the text (s). (bb) the following points shall be inserted: (c) solid fuels are not packaged in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 8a, Art. 1. (d) the content of the declaration of conformity of solid fuels does not meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 or a declaration of conformity and a copy of the test report of the lot concerned is not provided. 2. It creates a new para. 3: The order for enforcement of forced administrative measures shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 8, para. 1, respectively, with the regulation referred to in Article 1. 8a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and finally added........................................................................................................ 8a, para. 1.................................................................................. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The enforcement administrative measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 6. So far, the Al. 6 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u102	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 16 on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16, i.e. 1 the words "after the word 'the person' shall be comma', i.e. 2 words shall be placed comma and shall be placed after the word. 4 words shall be commaed and deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u104	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 16, in the version proposed in the Commission Report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u106	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 17. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u107	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 3 and 4 and para. 5 and 6: A person who distributes solid fuels for domestic heating without registration shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN. (4) A person who places on the market solid fuels for domestic heating which do not comply with any of the quality requirements defined by the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 if the act does not constitute a crime, regardless of the existence or absence of a declaration of conformity, is punished with a fine from 2000 to 10 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN. (5) A person who makes available on the market and/or distributes solid fuels for domestic heating which do not comply with any of the quality requirements specified by the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 if the act does not constitute a crime, regardless of the existence or absence of a declaration of conformity, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN. (6) A person who makes available on the market and/or distributes solid fuels for domestic heating which do not comply with any of the packaging and/or labelling requirements specified by the ordinance under art. 8a, para. 1 is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 30 000 to 50 000 BGN. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7 and in it the words the order under art. 8, para. 1s are replaced by the provisions of art. 8, para. 1 or art. 8a, para. 1.................................................................................. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1.. 4. The creation of para. 9. In the event of non-compliance with a mandatory prescription or a repeated infringement under para. 4, 5 and 6 solid fuels subject to the infringement, regardless of whose ownership they are, shall be withdrawn for the benefit of the State. The removal of solid fuels shall be submitted for destruction in accordance with the order laid down in the ordinance under art. 8a, para.1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, in the version of the Commission for § 19, which becomes § 18. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, in view of the advanced time, I interrupt the meeting until 12:00 when we will continue with the Report. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Vasileva, we continue with the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u110	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 19: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3 and para. 4. "Supposed to be a person who has violated the provisions of art. 18c, para. A fine or a penalty of BGN 5000 to BGN 7000 shall be punished. (4) Person who violates the provisions of art. 18 years, is punished with a fine or penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1, 2, 3 and 4 The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 20. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 21, with the words "art." 9g (s) shall be replaced by the following: It's 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u111	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. Please invite the Quaestors to enter the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposal of the importer supported by the Commission for § 20, which becomes § 19; the proposal of the importer for the rejection of a proposal supported by the Commission; the proposal of an importer supported by the Commission for § 22, which becomes § 20, and the proposal of an importer supported by the Commission for § 23, which becomes § 21. Please vote. They voted 65 MPs: for 65, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u112	Proposal by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Art. 41a. 41b: Art. 41a. (1) A person who clearly violates the cleanness of the air by performing construction or repair activities, demolition of buildings and transportation of bulk or construction waste and land masses shall be punished with a fine of 100 to 1000 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fines or penalties shall be imposed in a double amount. Art. 41b. (1) The acts for the detection of infringements under art. 41a shall be composed of officials authorised by the mayors of the municipalities. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality or by an official authorised by him. (3) The collected fines and penalties under art. 41a shall be entered under the budget of the municipality concerned. Proposal by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for § 24. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Mayor of Municipality, who did not submit a report for the implementation of the programs under art. 27, para. 2 within the prescribed time limit, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN 2. In para. 3 words that do not comply are replaced by those that do not fulfil. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The Mayor of the Municipality, for which the assessment under art. 27, para. 7 has shown that there is no reduction in the registered number of excesses of the standards for harmful substances and/or the annual average levels of pollutants and this is due to action or inaction by it, within its competence, is punishable by a fine from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. (5) In case of repeated infringement, the fines under para. 1 "4" is required in double size.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u113	Thank you. Mr. Milkov, come in for a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will take account of the two paragraphs that are being put to the vote. In the first person, who apparently violates the clean air by performing construction and repair activities, demolition activities and so on. There will be requirements for ambient air purity that meet certain standards. What does it mean to intrude? It may violate it without being obvious, or it may be something obvious to someone that is not a violation, so the acts drawn up that someone is clearly violating, moreover, that in the following subparagraph you are predicting a re-repetition of a breach, will create exceptional difficulties in administrative and criminal proceedings subsequently. What official is going to draw up an act that made it appear to him that someone is trespassing? How's he gonna prove it? The fact that it seems to him that someone is violating is grounds for checking with the appropriate instruments and to see if they are. The next paragraph is regarding the responsibility of the mayors of municipalities. Look, a little further in the Bill we supported your text, which says that the authorities responsible for air cleaning are four, not just the mayor of the municipality, as originally. We have four organs, and here we see that in the absence of a reduction in the norms that are in breach, a penalty is provided only for the mayors of municipalities. There is no way the administration of the Ministry of Environment and Water and other competent authorities, four in number, and when there is no reduction in the registered number of excesses, only the mayors of municipalities will be able to meet. It's just the air moving. Even if a mayor has done everything he can to accept a program, to do everything in his power, eventually the mayor next door may not have done it, and maybe the Ministry has failed to do its tasks, there is no way the responsibilities are for four authorities, sanctions for one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a new § 22 and the supported import text for § 24, which becomes § 23, as amended by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 79, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u116	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the words "s' and "s' shall be replaced by "s' and the fourth sentence shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3 after the word 3. In para. 5. (a) c. 1 after the word "the data', the words "the data' shall be added to "the data'; (b) c. 2 after the word "the data', the words "the data' shall be added to "the data'; (c) c. 4 the words "liquid fuel test' shall be replaced by "liquid or solid fuel test' and, finally, after the word "liquid test', the "solid' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u117	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for the version of § 25, which becomes § 24. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u118	Under § 26 there is a proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Atanas Kostadinov: In § 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 in the created new t. 43 a new comma is placed in its second use and wood briquettes, wood briquettes, pellets and biomass briquettes are added and other similar ones are added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25, and in that regard shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1 (c) and (d) of Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 1 point (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (c) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is replaced by the words (b) is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! By making this proposal for amendment to the text of the Law in relation to what is proposed to us, we follow the logic of physics, the logic of life. Somehow it makes no sense for us to rule out legislative firewood from the definition of solid domestic fuel. I appeal to you for reflection and for an idea to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u121	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Atanas Kostadinov. Vote 95 MPs: 23, against 27, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission, for a text of § 26, which becomes § 25. Vote 97 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u122	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 26, and the words "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u123	Thank you. Are there any statements on these two texts? I won't. We are voting for the proposal of the importer for § 27 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 26 and the Commission's proposal for the name of the division which becomes Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u124	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulations under art. 8a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 9f. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 28, in which it shall be replaced by The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 30, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u125	Thank you. Are there any statements on the three paragraphs read? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on: the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 28, which shall become § 27; the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 29, which shall become § 28; and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for dropping § 30, as it shall be reflected in its systematic place in § 27. Three proposals from the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u126	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue a regulation on the requirements and control of wood used for domestic heating. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 32 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the two proposals of the Commission in favour of the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 29; and the second, in principle, supported text of the importer for § 32, but with a proposal to reject it, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 34. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u128	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 30. Proposal by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 31 and § 32: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 65 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: 80% of the property penalties for administrative infringements under art. 164, para. 1 for failure to comply with conditions in a complex permit related to air pollution, enter the budget of the municipality in whose territory the installation is located. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, two and three. 3. They're creating an al. 5, 6 and 7: The amounts due under the imposed property penalties under para. 3 shall be transferred to the account of the relevant RIEW on whose territory the installation is located. (6) At the end of each calendar month RIEW shall distribute the proceeds of the sanctions under para. 3 from the previous month and transfers receipts to the account of municipal budgets. (7) The proceeds under para. 6 shall be spent solely on financing measures to reduce particulate matter emissions and improve air quality. § 32. In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 5. For apparently minor cases of administrative violations under para. 4 t. 1 established at the time of their execution, the authorities empowered for it shall impose fines of 10 to 50 BGN on the offence. against the issue of a ticket under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. (b) the current para. 5 becomes para. 6. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words.?............................................................................... The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 133, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission, for § 33, which becomes § 30; and the Commission's proposal to create new § 31 and 32. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u130	Proposal of the MPs Atanas Stoyanov and Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In the Law on Protected Areas (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21, t. 9 is added at the end, except in cases of flooding, which may lead to a risk to people's lives and health or material damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u131	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We absolutely appreciate the importance of protecting human life and health, but this is about a text proposed by our colleagues between first and second readings. In my opinion, the proposal must be motivated because it is proposed that an exception be made in the Law on Protected Areas. We are talking about a text that says that in national parks, not in every protected area, we are talking about the highest protection areas, national parks are being banned a certain list of activities. It is about the following: violation of the natural state of water areas, water currents, their shores and adjacent territories. In this case, we are overcoming this ban by saying that when there is some danger in the wild of a national park to disturb people's lives or health, we can break these water currents. I can guess why this text is proposed, but I believe that motives are needed, even more in view of the public importance for such actions in national parks. I hope the importers are motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 33 with the version proposed in the report. Voted 113 MPs: 108, none, abstention 5. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u134	The Commission proposes to establish § 34: ................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 9 concerning art. 27, para. 9 and § 23 concerning Art. 42a, para. 4 and 5 which enter into force from 1 January 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 34. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted and, with this and a second vote, the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, with the importer of the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018, adopted on the first vote on 16 November 2018. Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u136	I thank all my colleagues for supporting legislative efforts and measures to improve air quality. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u137	Dear Members of the Parliament, We move to the next point of our weekly program, and it is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CIVIL AIRCRAFT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2018. The Law was adopted at the first vote on 21 November 2018. With the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Letifov will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u138	Mr. Chairman, I'm making a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. 2 of Mr. Stanimir Leshev's Staff Regulations for admission to the hall of Mr. Stanimir Leshev, Director of Civil Aviation Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u139	We are voting on the motion for admission in this House. Vote 97 MPs: 93 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the face to the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u140	The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The second vote is on the draft. "Renewal and Supplemental to the Civil Aviation Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for §1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u141	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the Law and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 85, none, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u142	According to § 3 "A proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16c the following 1. In para. Commission Regulation (EU) No 691/2010 of 29 July 2010 laying down a performance scheme for air navigation services and network functions and amending Regulation (EC) No 2096/2005 laying down common requirements for the provision of air navigation services (OB, L 201/1 of 3 August 2010)) The Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 390/2013 of 3 May 2013 laying down a performance scheme for air navigation services and network functions (OB, L 128/1 of 9 May 2013.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. In para. 9 the words "Commission Regulation (EC) No 1794/2006 of 6 December 2006 establishing a common charging scheme for air navigation services' are replaced by "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 391/2013 of 3 May 2013 establishing a common charging scheme for air navigation services (OB, L 128/31 of 9 May 2013.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u143	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 3. Vote 95 MPs: 87, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u144	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u145	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u146	Under § 5, there is a proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16e, para. 1 words unless another time limit is set in a regulation of the European Union, as well as in the cases referred to in art. 10, para. This period does not apply: 1. where another is provided for in a Regulation of the European Union time limit; 2. where there is a need to collect additional documents and/or evidence; in this case the 30-day period shall cease until the documents/proofs are presented; 3. in the cases referred to in art. 10, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u147	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the editorial for § 5. Vote 94 MPs: 89, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u149	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of the importer for § 6. Vote 97 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u150	Under § 7 there is a proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 7. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made in art.16o: 1. In para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The access to the security areas of the civil airports is also agreed with the Directorate-General of Border Police. 2. The creation of para. 3: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u151	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 7. They voted 107 MPs: 93, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u152	By § 8, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose an amendment to § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the 1. In para. 4 the words "Regulation (EC) No are replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2018/1139'. 2. In para. The text of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation shall issue airworthiness certificates in accordance with Part 21 of Annex I, Subpart 3 of Section B of Part 21. 21. B.325 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 978/2012 of 3 August 2012 laying down implementing rules for the airworthiness and environmental certification of aircraft and related products, parts and equipment and for the certification of design and production organisations (OB, L 224/1 of 21 August 2012)) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u153	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 and the just-read version for § 9. They voted 102 MPs: 84, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u154	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u155	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the text of the importer for § 10, § 11 and § 12. Vote 94 MPs: 78, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u156	Under § 13 there is a proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 13. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 44a: Art. 44a. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure:), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) No 139/2014
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u157	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial for § 13. They voted 83 MPs: 72, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u158	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 14. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 8. 1. following an authorisation issued by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Air Navigation and Air Navigation in accordance with Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 of 5 October 2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures relating to air operations in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 296, 25/10/2012), or 2. with a national air operator certificate for specialised operations issued by the Director-General of the General Directorate of the Air Administration. 2. In para. 8 after the word "Sewers' are a comma and the permissions are added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u159	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the editorial for § 14. They voted 100 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u160	Madam President, we'd like a 30-minute recess on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u161	A 15-minute recess will follow, then the meeting will continue. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u162	Here you go, Mr. Letifov. We'll continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u163	Under § 15 there is a proposal from Halil Letifov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 15. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120, para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A t is created. 1a: 1a. issue of certificates under Regulation (EU) No 139/2014. 2. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. issue of national air operator certificates for specialised operations and authorisations for carrying out high-risk specialised commercial operations, as well as examination of declarations, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 965/2012, under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 64, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u164	Statements? I can't see. Continue reading so we can vote them all at once.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u165	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u166	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 15 of the Commission Report and the text of the importer for paragraphs 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Velchev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! The procedure is on the agenda of the National Assembly. My suggestion is point two for Friday to move it now and be the next item in today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. I put to the vote the procedure Mr. Velchev just did for a shift in the order of the program. They voted 123 MPs: 114, against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR VEROIZATIONS. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! Report on General Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 853-14-10, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the bill adopted at the first vote on 11 October 2018 amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018 and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. The Law on Religions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Religions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u170	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u171	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye to drop paragraph 1. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u172	Statements? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u173	Madam President, honourable Members! We voted against starting reading in today's sitting, as the report has been on the National Assembly's website literally for minutes. Reading § 1, I see a clear discrepancy with yesterday's Commission meeting, in which I took part, because there, for example, Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Karadayi was not put to the vote, as the Commission came to the view that it was not motivated. There was a vote on that. We are now being offered texts that were in the report of the working group, as a report by the Commission. I believe that this should be refined and that there should be an opportunity to correct the report. At the same time, if we have to comment on the substance of our proposal on the name of Chapter Two, which, apart from the rights, incorporates and obligations of faiths, can be quite easily motivated. "Each community in the country other than rights has obligations, and this Law contains a number of obligations of religion. There's nothing more normal than a head with a name like that. In this regard, I suggest that you do not support Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Karadayi and reject the Commission's decision in order to vote on the original version that we have proposed as importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u174	Are you suggesting that we not support rejection, but support the stay of § 1? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u175	I see no difference from the Commission's work yesterday, and we put it to the vote. It is therefore written that the Commission supports the proposal. Once I support....it means it has been voted on and the Commission is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u176	Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u177	Except wait for protocol so we can move on. Technically speaking, the Commission rejected the importer's proposal, that is, our proposal, but not on a proposal from Tsvetanov and Karadayi, but your proposal, Mr. President, made during the Commission meeting. It's just one first obvious defect on this report. I guess by continuing to read further, we'll find a lot of others. In this regard, perhaps the wiser thing is to really leave this point for tomorrow and be able to correct our texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u178	I propose that the Commission's decision be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u179	I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 1 of the Commission report. They voted 137 MPs: for 123, against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u180	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u181	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, frankly, I cannot understand the logic of the Commission to reject the text of § 2, provided that we also have a similar constitutional ban. [[Heckling]] I do not understand the logic that followed the honourable Commission when it rejected the proposal to create § 2. In practice, there is a similar prohibition in the Constitution that religion and belief be used for political purposes. I believe that § 2 is actually further developed and the constitutional norm is actually supported in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u183	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u184	Thank you, Madam President. The constitutional norm, this text is made on a constitutional norm, is developed beautifully where it belongs in the Law on Political Parties. It does not belong here, and there is a ban in the Law on Political Parties, so it is developed well enough there, so these were the reasons to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u185	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Mitev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u186	Thank you, Madam President. I thank my colleague Tsonev for the clarification. I see no reason to support this constitutional decision and with a record in the Religious Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u187	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u188	It cannot be an argument that the law did not need to have it because it was in the Constitution. The laws are for this, so that philosophy and what is said in the Constitution can be mirrored in legal acts, whether it be laws or regulations. In the Law on Legislative Acts there are special points and articles in which this is indicated, and a fundamental requirement is that the laws carry logic, the meaning of what is written in the Constitution. And that there is a need for this ban on speculation and for the exercise of political objectives in relation to the confession of the rights of the citizens, this provision is necessary because it often happens to be so. It happens a lot, and we know it well. The very rights of Bulgarian citizens, in relation to which we make these amendments to the Religion Act, to be used for covering up political purposes. It seems that someone is not comfortable, does not like to write such a provision, which once again reaffirms the legal meaning of the state and constitutional beginning. I call on everyone to think seriously and to support the text. No support shall be given to the request by which the text of the importer in that part to be rejected. In this regard, I call on you all to understand very well, the compromises that are being made on this bill, which is clear from all of us and we are adopting to a large extent, must not pass a red line which, if passed, will be a major threat to national security. Colleagues, this is one of the reasons why we are adopting this bill. That's where we started, and that's where we decided to make some compromises. But here we should not ignore the fact that the rights of the citizens can be threatened and there are forces in Bulgaria that can be tempted to turn the rights of the citizens into political goals to be used to speculate on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Other speeches. I can't see. Colleagues, I am voting on the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 2. Please, voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: 125 against 23 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u190	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Boris Borisov: "In § 3, Option I, in art. 6, para. 1, t. 10 words "religious radicalism" are replaced by "radical ideologies on a religious basis." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u191	Statements? I can't see. Proceed, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u192	Proposal by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u193	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here is the first in a series of texts that regulate the responsibilities of religious radicalism. A concept that we are introducing at the end of our bill, so I will allow myself to talk about the concept itself, not just about the particular text. In our view, it is important that the text of the importers be supported and rejected the Commission's proposal, because we started with the idea of making a serious reform in this area, a reform that is essentially subject to the denominator of security. We cannot allow ourselves in the escalating environment of Islamic radicalism, with more requests for its penetration in Bulgaria and more and more outbreaks that feed on such ideology, to remain indifferent. This is a crucial issue for us because radicalisation is an element of the politicization of religion. In fact, politicization has two persons - one is the experience of certain political forces, by the way, quite successful over the years, to use certain faiths for party purposes to accumulate votes. The second is, however, the ideology of the conversion of religious doctrine into ideology, into something that is aimed not at internal peace, at improvement, but at aggressive behaviour to change existing public order. I would like you to be aware, when you vote, of what we understand under the term "radicalization." The Radicalization is dangerous to the national...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u195	Who are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u196	We from the United Patriarchs, ma'am, the importers of this text. If we don't know each other, that's fine. [[Reply from the National Representative Adlen Shevked.]] This is a danger to national security actions, sermons, texts, statements or addresses which deny the secular character of the state, contest or replace the rule of law with other rules of conduct or invoke those by which fundamental human rights and freedoms are denied, including those established in the Constitution; which oppose people on a religious or religious basis; by which they preach propaganda or promote terrorism or war on a religious or vernacular basis, using symbols or signs of terrorist organisations; which use religion, religion, religion, temples, traditions or rituals for political purposes. That's the point of our proposal. I think it is entirely in the spirit of national interest, and I call for the Commission's proposal to be rejected and the original text of the importer to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Veselinov, I disagree with your speech because it was incomplete and insufficiently justified. I expected you to note that the creation of such a framework and with such content corresponds to the understanding expressed also in the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria that, quote: The use of religious communities and institutions or faith beliefs for the preaching of religious fundamentalism or extremism is always a gross violation not only of art. 11, para. 4 of the Constitution, but also of other fundamental constitutional principles, expressed in a number of provisions of the Constitution, end of quote. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria of 18 September 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u200	Thanks for that extra motive, Mr. Mitev. Indeed, it has a serious constitutional basis. The main thing to which I appeal, however, is to the common sense of the MPs, because the phenomenon of religious radicalism. All state authorities must be aware of this threat, and faiths must contribute to removing this phenomenon or as limited as possible in public life.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u201	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u202	Dear colleagues, both bills were submitted in May. At that time, all colleagues and those who participated in the debate and those who did not participate, and society was set up and expected, especially in this direction, that religious fanaticism and extremism would be made clear. So we went with this intention, which was one of the goals we set ourselves, and on which there was consensus. Little by little, however, things have been so dulled to come to this point, until today, when the Law is deprived of its life, of the basics, of the most important thing that we had gone with. This is again the result of the consensus and of the many compromises that were made in the long and hard work under the Law. Therefore, I urge you not to forget where we are going and what the Bulgarian society needs. Because radicalism, terrorism in Christianity, in Orthodoxy there is no known to everyone. This isn't happening. You understand here what we meant about which terrorism, which extremism. The text offered by us, if you will, is the most acceptable, most compromiseable. Our texts are even so compromise that they don't call things by their real names. You know the real names, the origin of terrorism in today's world and extremism. In the 20th 21st century, in 2018, this problem stood not only in front of our society. Other countries are making changes and submitting such texts, and we have given numerous examples in this regard, and we today, when we have to implement this action and name this threat, are once again hiding our head in the sand and once again compromising our national interest. Therefore, I call on all Bulgarian parties to unite and once again to be at our level, at our height.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Boris Borisov. Vote 149 MPs: 43 against 30, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the rejection of § 3, which the Commission does not support. Vote 142 MPs: 121, against 20, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u204	Under § 4 there is a proposal from the MP Boris Borisov: In § 4, Option II, in art. 7, p. 4, para. 8 the words "preliminary coordination' shall be replaced by "notify'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: ................................................................................................. 1. Opportunity II to drop out. 2. The possibility that I would accept it. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u205	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u206	I see that the thought of national interests is not the most fundamental in this vote on this law. In any case, I am obliged to say what we propose and what will most likely be rejected. We "United Patriarchs " offer the following few things that we believe are extremely important. First of all, we believe that those involved in the governing bodies of political parties cannot participate in the governing bodies of religious communities. Why? Because this is a politicization of the religion that is forbidden by the Constitution of the State. Secondly, we propose that Bulgarian citizens who have completed their religious education abroad should not be able to become ministers of religion, to preach, to perform a ritual activity unless they compare their education to the existing Bulgarian laws. Why? Because for two decades now, so-called Middle Eastern students have appeared, who have been studying only the Koran for many years in certain twisted forms typical of extremist views of radical Islam, and come here, and import it, and create a blessed soil for its spread. The other thing we propose is for foreigners to be able to participate in worship after prior notification to the Department of Religion. That is, all these bearded emissaries who have passed, say, through the shopping mosque, should have been notified before they were allowed into its territory. That's what you're probably going to reject. Surely this thing is very important for national security, and surely it must find its solution, whether in this one or in other laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Boris Vangelov. They voted 143 MPs: in 20, against 24, abstentioned 99. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi in its unsupported part under the heading. 2. They voted 133 MPs: for 4, against 38, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject § 4. 135 MPs voted: 117, against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u208	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Boris Vangelov Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u209	Statements? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u210	Madam President, honourable Members! In the spirit of what I think it is important to share what was § 5's idea to create real obligations for religious communities and institutions. First of all, to designate as preaching clergymen mostly Bulgarian citizens. Do not preach in temples and prayer homes on the territory of the country to foreigners, except after prior notification of the Department of Religions. Do not distribute literature with radical ideas; do not print such and so on and so forth. That is, we wanted to develop a series of norms to prevent radical influences from entering Bulgarian religions. I think it would be useful to reject the Commission's proposal and support our proposals as importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u211	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 5 to be rejected. 135 MPs voted: 118, against 13, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u212	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 6 t. 1 (d) and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 4 the word "receipts" is replaced by "recessives" and the words "educational, health or social institution" shall be replaced by a medical institution, social or educational institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u213	Statements? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u214	At the risk of annoying the honourable Members, I would like to say that the provision of the proposed by us § 6 aims to discipline religion, namely in the direction of preventing radicalisation and thus spreading radical ideas. In this norm, we have provided for certain sanctions that can be imposed on faiths that fail to fulfil their obligations in this regard. It is about stopping publishing when similar texts with radical religious content are published; sealing of premises where worship and sermons are performed, mostly related to similar ideas; expelling foreign preachers, emissaries, and other spiritual persons. In this regard, I think that, of course, this norm, as I see it, the majority will not accept it, but what will make it impossible to accept this series of norms that I am telling you so far is to have a Christmas law in which there will be gifts, of course, for religion in the form of financial payments. However, there will be no guarantee of national security, no commitment of these religions to assist the state in ensuring this national security. Once again, I urge you to reject the proposal of Mr. Tsvetanov and Karadayi and to accept our text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote, first, the unsupported part of § 6. They voted 133 MPs: for 2, against 38, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 6, which becomes § 1, proposed by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 119, against 11, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u216	The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 after the word "church" a dash is placed and is added "Bulgarian
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-20.u217	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 2. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 21 December 2018, Friday: 1. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov. 2. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Dimitar Georgiev. 3. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MP Krasimir Yankov. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Chenchev; Dimitar Georgiev and Radoslav Stoychev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question with a written answer from the MP Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to one question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; and to two questions from the MPs Slavcho Velkov; and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of one question from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; and three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov on two questions; and Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on one question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Genov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on 12 questions with written answer from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova on 11 questions; and Manol Genov, Lyubomir Bonev and Georgi Yordanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MPs Milko Nedyalkov; and Petar Vitanov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov; - two questions from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov; and Anelia Klisarova and Nikolay Tsonkov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to a preliminary international meeting planned in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will not participate. For today we are done with the work of the National Assembly. Next plenary session tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
