ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, I'm going to read you a message: On 8 November 2018 the National Assembly received six requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to arouse criminal prosecutions against: National Representative Boris Petkov Kirchev for crimes committed under art. 225, para. 3 in connection with para. 1, t. 2, p. 6 and so on. 7 of the Criminal Code of Case No 18438 of 2018 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. National Representative Plamen Trifonov Hristov for a crime committed under art. 321, para. 6 of the Criminal Code of Pre-trial Procedure No 152 of 2014 according to the description of the District Investigation Department at the District Prosecutor's Office of the Ministry of Justice of Varna, file No 102 of 2018 on the description of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. National Representative Veselin Naydenov Mareshki for a crime committed under art. 321, para. 6 of the Criminal Code of Pre-trial Procedure No 152 of 2014 according to the description of the OSLO at the Operational Programme of Varna, file No 102 of 2018 according to the description of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. National Representative Krastina Nikolova Taskova for a crime committed under art. 321, para. 6 of the Criminal Code of Pre-trial Procedure No 152 of 2014 according to the description of the OSLO at the Operational Programme of Varna, file 102 of 2018 according to the description of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. National Representative Elena Nikolova Yoncheva for a crime committed under art. 253, para. 5 in relation to para. 1 of the Criminal Code of Pre-trial Procedure No 133 of 2018 on the description of the Investigation Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, file No 1154 of 2018 and on the description of the Special Prosecutor's Office. National Representative Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov for a crime committed under art. 219, para. 1 in relation to para. 3 of the Penal Code and under art. 220, para. 1 in relation to art. 26, para. 1 of the Criminal Code of Case No 18499/2018 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. By letters dated 8 November 2018, the President of the National Assembly informed the Members of the National Assembly of the requests received and the opportunity to get acquainted with them and the proposed materials. By applications from the same day the people's ideas Boris Petkov Kirchev and Elena Nikolova Yoncheva informed the President of the National Assembly that each of them gives consent to arousal of prosecution on the requests received by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter dated 8 November 2018, the President of the National Assembly informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consents given by the Members of the National Assembly to arouse prosecution on the requests made and certified copies of the applications were applied. The request of the Prosecutor General shall be sent to the Members of the National Assembly by official e-mail. Inquiries and written answers for the period 2 "8 November 2018': - a request was received from the National Representative Manol Trifonov Genov and Lyubomir Boykov Bonev to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to deal with the lag of municipalities for the development, adoption and entry into force of common and development plans. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 November 2018; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - written answer from the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgev; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Nikolay Ivanov; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - written answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to five questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - written answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - written answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Lyubomir Bonev and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova and Georgi Stoilov; - written answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Radostin Tanev; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to two questions by the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Radostin Tanev; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to two questions by the National Representative Radostin Tanev; - written answer from the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MP Yordan Mladenov; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - written answer from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the folk ideas Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - written answer from Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov to a question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Dimitar Georgiev; - written answer to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on questions from the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov, Yordan Yordanov, Atanas Stoyanov and Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u3	Procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u4	They can't register otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u5	Thank you. Madam President, since yesterday at your request I am referring to a request of the parliamentary group of GERB, a name check was carried out, and then a very quick amendment and supplemental bill of the Bulgarian National Bank took place. Since this is a really important bill, I ask for a maximum period between the first and second votes on BNB. I propose the term under "T." 4, namely the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, which was adopted yesterday by the National Assembly, should be increased to the maximum, according to our Rules. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u6	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Stoyanova back offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u7	Dear Madam President, I am making a reverse procedural proposal that the deadline will remain seven days, as is the usual deadline for all draft laws in the National Assembly. The Bulgarian National Bank bill passed yesterday without a single speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u8	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u9	The problem is you, gentlemen! Yesterday you should have been here and taken attitude! More than that! Yesterday, Madam President, we could have seen the Bill at second reading, since there were no speeches. However, I do not wish to abuse the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you very much, honourable Members! Colleagues on the left-hand side or stay in their seats and get acquainted with the bills in time, and even fewer people outside the Budget Committee will make proposals for terms of laws that are not within their prerogatives! [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u11	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u12	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u13	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u14	Here you go. Guys, I'm begging you very much to be quiet! It's too loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u15	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I urge you not to allow it! I am voting on this procedural proposal. [[(Reply and screams from BSP for Bulgaria: ……]] Because his only goal is to circumvent the Rules so that colleagues who did not register from BSP can now register. [[Loud noise, laughter, applause from GERB.]] I'm pointing out that if they have such a big problem for this term, [[Replication of MP Dimitar Lazarov]] On Wednesday, Mr. Lazarov, they can ask for a vote, a vote, a vote on this term. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please don't allow it! However, if you assess and allow such a vote, I shall request a name check prior to that vote. Thank you. [[(Laughter, applause and shouting from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u16	There is a procedure, Mr. Letifov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u17	Madam President, I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. During the week it became clear how well Mr. Danny Kirilov respected the Rules after here proposed that Adhok be changed and you put him to the vote. You have violated all the principles of democracy and the rule of law. [[(Replications of the MP Daniel Kirilov, who stands up. DPS lines: Sit down, sit down, sit down!]] And now, once again, you're going to break it by keeping this insane offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u18	Mr. Letifov, you don't know what I'm going to do in this case, so take your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u19	What is the proposal of the Chair of the Legal Committee?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u20	Procedure! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u21	There's no personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u22	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u23	Thank you. Madam President, my procedure is also in the manner of conduct, it is similar to that of Mr. Letifov. As President of the National Assembly, I appeal personally to you, asking you to accept it as you wish, when Mr. Kirilov makes a procedure, to be very, extremely strict and careful and to read the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise you risk the National Assembly not working under the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u24	Mr. Popov, believe me, I am very old-fashioned and I read the Rules. [[(Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.) Replices.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u25	You did it, you did it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u26	I will put to the vote the proposal of my colleagues from BSP to Bulgaria. However, there was a request for a name check. I will respect this request, and I will submit to... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u27	Don't embarrass yourself with that name check!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u28	Colleagues, we're working under the rules, aren't we? Let's follow the rules! [[Noise and lines.]] There was another procedure, Mr. Svilensky, come on in! [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u29	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]] And precisely in the sense of observing the Rules, Mr. Kirilov, a week ago from this tribune, when I did a roll call check procedure, came out and explained how the procedure could not be requested a name check, and quoted the Rules. Both him and Mr. Ivanov. Indeed, do a roll call check, because this is the Rules, but the other thing is not to give Mr. Kirilov the floor on questions from the National Assembly's Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u30	I can't, Mr. Svilensky, not to say the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u31	You will always be misled by whether you, the Vice-President of Parliament. Just by procedure, don't give him the word anymore. GERB to appoint another representative... [[Noise, comments from GERB and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u32	Please, Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u33	...by procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u34	Stop giving me advice! I've got a head on my shoulders too! [[(Laughter and shouts: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] Thank you for your good advice. I hope they're well-meaning. Please, the roll call list. [[Voices from GERB "Eee! "]] Mrs. Nigar Jaffer and I will do the inspection. Colleagues, we'll start with the roll call. Please be quiet, everyone! Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov here. Colleagues, 134 MPs present. We've got a quorum and we're moving on. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You'll hear your name next time. I didn't hear mine either, Mr. Kanev. Peter Kanev is here! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for an extension of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. They voted 173 MPs: 66, against 85, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Revoting please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, this is an extremely important bill and we are indeed holding on to a maximum period. After Bulgaria accepted the humiliation to be accepted in the waiting room for ERM II, something that never happened and there was no other such country... [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev continues to speak on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Let's limit ourselves. You know, when it's procedure... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Stoinev, when we have a re-vote procedure, there's no point in... [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev continues to speak with microphones off.]] No, by the book... [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Stoynev, let's vote, then take the floor in the manner of conduct. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev continues to speak with microphones off.]] Of course, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u37	...the Bulgarian government. I therefore call on you to have a re-vote and accept the maximum period, Members. The law really is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'll put it to the vote, of course. Please re-vote. Vote 170 MPs: 66, against 89, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that a change of voting system be discussed to the Chairman's Council. The system isn't working and it's constantly causing problems. There are people who can't vote. I beg you very much, it's not worth much money. We'll probably get back into the budget a few million. We can change the system without justifying that next year or pό next year we will be in another building and the system will be different. Please, Madam President, pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u40	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. I just wanted to let you know that I've been talking about preventing the system. We've done prophylaxis and the system is working fine, but I'm still going to inform the firm to see what the problem is, because really, some of our colleagues' fingers are more sensitive. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First question to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. He will answer a question from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov concerning the implementation of provisions of the regulatory framework in the field of electronic management and in relation to the electronic exchange of documents in the administration. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable ministers! My question is provoked by my desire not only for me, but also for society to get acquainted with the progress of introducing what is so important for the management of the state e-government. Since it requires a lot of time, effort, resource and as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for this policy, Mr. Tomislav Donchev, I would like to ask you about the fundamental for the introduction of e-government activity, namely the state administrations to start exchanging their document turnover not by paper but by electronic means. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u42	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u43	In this regard, my question is as follows: Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, according to the provisions of § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Ordinance on General Requirements for Information Systems, Registers and Electronic Administrative Services, the obligation to use electronic document turnover under art. 32, para. 1 and 2 of the Ordinance shall enter into force on 1 November 2018. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: First, what organization was created to meet this requirement? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u44	Colleagues, please make the noisy calls on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u45	What measures have been taken? What are the results of them at the date according to the Ordinance? Secondly, what difficulties have been identified in the process of implementing the electronic exchange of documents between administrative structures? Are there any administrations that have not yet joined the electronic exchange of documents? What actions have been taken to include them? Thirdly, what further action will be taken to fulfil the requirement in legislation regarding the electronic exchange of documents in the administration? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, before we get to the numbers that illustrate where we are at the moment, let me note that this whole process has several sides: regulatory, organisational, technical, as a minimum. By the Ordinance quoted by you on general requirements for information systems, registers, electronic administrative services adopted at the end of the previous government mandate, we have obliged all administrative authorities to use the electronic document system and to participate in the electronic exchange of documents with other administrations. Simply put: let the paper between them drop. In the same regulation, we have obliged to regulate the way in which this exchange can be carried out through a technical protocol established by the President of the State Agency. These successive actions continued with the current government. The technical protocol for electronic exchange of documents was established at the end of June 2017. Immediately thereafter, the Council of Ministers, by its decision No 357 of 29 June 2017, obliged the administrative authorities to bring their electronic exchange systems of documents into line with the technical protocol by 1 September 2017. Practice shows that as with other processes, if the requirements are not adequately regulated, nothing is obtained. Naturally, from a technical point of view, the so-called EIA or Electronic Communications Exchange System was created. I make it clear: the system implies that the document system of the administration concerned should be linked through the EOS to the other administration's document-turning system. What does the situation look like at the moment? Ninety-six percent of all administrations, i.e. 739 are part of the exchange. These are 616 administrations at territorial level and 123 administrations at central level. Outside the system are several small municipalities and some undersized government services. Everyone's efforts to engage are continuing. It turns out that some administrations do not have an adequate document management system or have none. There have been cases where administrations maintain a document management system that is not compatible does not fit into the whole system. We have found an alternative solution and through the electronic service module we have allowed them to participate in the electronic communication exchange. What should we do from now on? First, let's turn everyone on. With regard to the smallest, with very low capacity, this implies not only motivation, not only pressure, but help. That's the kind of help it turns out to be. Next, connectivity is just a prerequisite. We must not allow from one end of the cable to have paper and at the other end of the cable to have paper, as sometimes happens. We create the document in paper form, scan it, and print it from the other end. The added value of this is very low. Therefore, organisationally this implies that to the level of management of the relevant administration should work not on paper, but through the document management system. Next steps: central anti-virus protection module. The next most important step: it is good that administrations communicate electronically with each other, but the big task is to communicate electronically with citizens. Therefore, the efforts from now on are for the full deployment of the electronic service module, and I think that even before the end of the year we will have news, and the big task: electronic identification. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You will complete your answer in the back. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Donchev, since I do not have a duplicate, but you have started with three measures, which are to be taken from now on by the government, I will give you an opportunity in the back to me to continue your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u51	Dear Mr. Nenkov, the parliamentary procedure is in any event not enough time to reveal all the important steps. I mentioned the e-service module, which allows the state to communicate with citizens in a secure manner. My ambition is to use it not only by state institutions. I think it would have been extremely beneficial for the processes involving certain public service providers that are not public institutions, understand banks, mobile operators, providers of public service companies, kindergartens, and if this plan was implemented, it would mean that by the middle of next year 70 or 80% of Bulgarian citizens would be users of the electronic service module. Of course, the process will become complete when there is an electronic identification system directly linked to the new identification documents. The next important stage that runs parallel, we will not wait for all these stages to end is the so-called registration form. The big goal of the task is to destroy documents. A document in the form of a certificate by which the citizen must be supplied by one administration and carry it in another must not exist, including in legal peace. This means, by electronic means, that one administration should make a primary reference to another and not the citizen to carry the documents. I would like to remind you that more than 10 documents disappeared last year. The ambition is that next year their number will be higher. If we are talking about a break, because the e-government does not happen in a moment when we can cut the tape or we can cut the key, as some say, I suspect that there will be a break before the end of next year of the cumulative effect of all these measures, but a fully functioning system - probably since the end of 2020. Thank you very much. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u52	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mr. Tomislav Donchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will answer first a question from the MPs Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev about the Multidisciplinary Committee on Historical Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Danchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u53	Thank you. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is clear from the transcript of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on the emblematic date of May 9th "Day of Europe," that in addition to a brief presentation of the proposed President and Vice-President of the Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Issues between Bulgaria and Macedonia, there was no debate on the election of Commissioners. The names of the other members were not even read. Without any doubt, of course, the expertise of the elected members, for us and I suppose for the Bulgarian society, remains the question of who and by what criteria did the members of the Commission choose. It is noticed that the Council of Ministers' Decision of 10 May 2018 lacks information on the range of topics which the government considers to be priority in the work of this committee. It would probably be good for the government to point out as an indication of the work of the Commission the thematic circles or the historical periods to which it should pay particular attention, as some of them are particularly sensitive to our society. Given that the government nevertheless appoints the members of the Commission, the logic is that it should also determine the scope of its work. Since this is obviously not done, please respond to the following. Is there a government negotiating position on the agenda and issues which the Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Issues under art. 8, para. 2 of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u54	Dear Madam President, Mr. Vitanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, I understand your interest. Of course, it is normal that the expectations and interest in the work of this committee are very high. Firstly, the Commission was announced in its full composition. I have answered many times how it was made up after consulting the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and after meeting with the History Faculty of Sofia University. I do not think anyone has any doubt about the professional qualities of the composition of the Commission. Also, since it is a mixed Multidisciplinary Commission, there is no way to include the full range of experts. In a manner of speaking, the Commission shall work with an auxiliary body to it and, where different subjects are required on their agenda, shall consult a much wider range of scientists who are not part of its composition. The Commission has held two meetings so far. The third is expected to be by the end of this month. What the committees on both sides have agreed is that the meetings should be rotating, which is normal once in Sofia, once in Skopje, i.e. once in Bulgaria, once in the Republic of Macedonia. At the first meeting, the Commission also discussed Rules of Employment. I had the opportunity to attend it briefly. Of course, first of all, it is most important for Bulgaria that we quickly agree on common historical events and personalities that we should celebrate and celebrate together. History books were exchanged between the two committees. At the second meeting the Bulgarian Commission reviewed the textbooks from the 6th and 7th departments of the Republic of Macedonia and over 30 pages of notes were made. To sum up our committee has found serious problems in the study content, the solution of which requires in-depth work. At the same time, the atmosphere in the committees of both sides, as it should be, thank God, has been constructive and positive, despite the many notes that have been sent. I would like to point out that the Commission does not only work during the meetings. There's no way. All preparatory work on the review of textbooks between the two committees was carried out within this month, so the Commission does not negotiate. Under contract, it must submit a joint report to the governments of the two countries each year. I assure you, we will never let a compromise be made! On whether or not our positions should be public. Of course, we have never stopped the members of the Commission, you see, they participate in enough television shows every time they are invited. That's what I can tell you so far about their work. After one year of their work has passed, we expect, of course, their report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Next up is a line. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Danchev asked you a very clear and brief question. It seems to me that this answer and what you have been referring to, I listened to it on the radio interview of Angel Dimitrov, the head of our committee. It seems to me that despite this stunt of equilibristics, it is rather increasing the feeling that the Commission is working on a piece. There is no way you can convince me or a large part of the audience, which is directly involved with this topic, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is directly involved with the topic. Moreover, the answers you give make me conclude that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has rather abdicated from the topic, which speaks of a deficit of management capacity in the office, which you are in charge of. I will allow myself to rephrase the question to be in a clearer language: is there the Bulgarian part of the Multidisciplinary Commission a mandate by the government, which is usually given by a decision of the Council of Ministers? Are there any established negotiating positions to define the basic guidelines in the Commission's work?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u58	I'm not getting into your tone because I'm not interested in him. It's okay to read the contract anyway. This committee does not negotiate to have a negotiating mandate. The Commission is composed of prominent and proven Bulgarian scientists. I think that's how you insult the committee itself, but that's your choice. The Commission has a very clear task in both the treaty and the decision of the Council of Ministers. Believe me, the Ministry didn't abdicate at all. We receive regular reports from the Commission, we meet with it, and I personally attended its first meeting, so it is neither fog nor working. If you expect with a magic wand for three or four months... In fact, let us not forget when the contract came into force.. That signing on 1 August does not mean that it came into force at that time. I think I should remind you of that. Obviously you do not remember when you ratified the treaty and when the Commission was drawn up?! However, let us give some time to our distinguished scientists, to the wider group in this committee, to have little confidence in them, even if you do not have confidence in the leadership of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question from Christian Vigenin and Petar Vitanov about the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question is provoked by a sad, amazing and shocking event: the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Hashogi. The asymmetrical reaction of the European Union and the American administration in the Hashogi case seems to put an end to the issue of values in international relations. Donald Trump's statement that he will not give up the supply of weapons that brings his country 110 billion. The dollar is heavy in favor of the accusations that the issue of values serves as a tool rather than as a basis for the foreign policy of the United States and Europe. Their actions are fundamentally different as scope and intensity compared to other similar cases. I'm making an analogy with the poisoning of Skripal in Britain. In this context, the absence of the concept of "sanctions" in the dictionary of leading politicians is sufficiently indicative. As Bulgarians we cannot help but take an interest in the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the case. I therefore allow myself to ask this question: what is the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the case of the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Hashogi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vigenin, I don't see him in the room. Dear Mr. Vitanov, it was indeed a shocking and atrocious murder. The Bulgarian position is: on 20 October 2018, if I am not mistaken, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy Federica Mogherini expressed a position on behalf of 28 countries, something that should have told us that Bulgaria has participated. Bulgaria is one of these 28 countries involved in the development of the position. This general statement on behalf of the European Union expresses respect for the activity of journalist Jamal Hashogi. The European Union's strong support for media freedom and the protection of journalists is also stated. It is stressed that the circumstances surrounding Jamal Hashogi's death are highly disturbing, including in the context of the implementation of the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. The European Union also insists on a comprehensive, transparent and credible investigation and on seeking responsibility from the guilty. This is also the Bulgarian position. As I said before, on 15 October 2018, the foreign ministers discussed the topic. There was a procedure for coordinating a common opinion. This is also the opinion of Bulgaria. I think that the European Union, with this statement being made on behalf of 28 countries, has undoubtedly and in an undisputed way shown its attitude towards this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Vitanov, come in. You have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, this is the second time I've been shocked. The fact that Federica Mogherini, on behalf of the 28 countries, has expressed a position, does not at all cancel the Bulgarian government's responsibility to do the same, at least in my opinion. I took an interest and looked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs archive. Official position of the department is simply absent. Yes, there was a number of news related to visiting ministers and deputy ministers of Tutrakan, strongly condemning the attack on the synagogue in the United States, but nothing about this atrocity murder. I therefore ask the question: what must happen in order for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to come out with a reaction, since the barbaric killing with a saw in a diplomatic mission and the brutal lubrication of freedom of speech is not enough for you? Are these the values that Bulgarian diplomacy stands for? For me this is rather a hypocritical silence in the name of some money, which, unfortunately, will not even reach Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? You will not take this right. There is a question from the MP Ivo Hristov on a convention of the Council of Europe on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Here you are, Professor Hristov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u66	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On 20 April 2016, Bulgaria signed the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, popular among the people such as the Istanbul Convention. Under this document is the signature of the then Minister of Justice, that is, your signature. The Constitutional Court ruled that texts of the Istanbul Convention contradict our constitution. The Council of Ministers withdrew from the National Assembly its proposal for its ratification. I recall briefly the facts because the matter is not finally resolved. A future ratification of the EU document will oblige us to apply the provisions of the Convention if the Convention becomes part of EU law, the decision of our Constitutional Court will have no meaning. Given the broad public interest and the potential legal problem that we may face, my question is as follows: is there any action taken to withdraw your signature under the document and what position will the Bulgarian State express when discussing the proposal for ratification of the European Union Convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, you described the chronology very correctly. I'll finish it, though, if I'm not mistaken, the Council's decisions are public. I guess you know. The Council on European Affairs has, within the framework of the framework position on the subject, approved the position that we cannot support the Council's decision on the inclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, precisely because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which you have quoted. By the way, the Justice Department is the lead, but I assume you're asking me the question of a deputy prime minister? I clarify, you can be proud of this "Bulgaria" will be a reason for the whole European Union not being able to implement this convention. You have reason to be proud, so to speak. Once one of the States has expressed such agreement, we have no unanimity, which is why, including even in the penal part of the Convention, there is no way for the European Union to apply it. Of course, this does not mean that different countries that have already ratified it will not apply it. This is a Convention not of the European Union, as you have misled in your quest to adjust public opinion to the European Union, but of the Council of Europe, a very different institution and organisation. This will be the position Bulgaria will express to the Council. By procedure, this means that the accession of the entire European Union to the Convention will be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u70	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I expected a more serious response from you. [[Reply from Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva.]] The question is what I have the right to ask you, and you have the constitutional obligation to answer me! You could have saved yourself the irony, for the simple reason that, firstly, the international legal document in question was declared unconstitutional by the Bulgarian Constitutional Court in one part. As far as I can tell from the way you answered my question, are you questioning the Constitutional Court's decision? If you say so officially. Secondly, I absolutely do not share your insinuations that it is almost because of our position that we have prevented the European Union from adopting adequate legal texts to combat domestic violence?! It's called speculation. Thirdly, you know very well that the problem with the so-called Istanbul Convention is not at all the issue of violence against women and children! I am a lawyer and as such I know very well that in Bulgarian law there are enough tools for such practice not to be allowed. The big problem in Bulgaria is not the presence or absence of a legal basis, but its adequate application. What they tried to do with the Istanbul Convention, every child in this country knows in a good form to fight against violence of women and children to push ideas, values and practices absolutely incompatible with the Bulgarian civilization code. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you support such a trend, it is a pity for the Bulgarian government! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, will there be a duplicate? You will not take this right. Allow me to thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are addressing the questions to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. He will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev about the Bulgarian commitment to cover part of the costs of the European stabilisation mechanism. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u72	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Goranov! The negotiations on Bulgaria's accession to the single currency area ended with a voluntary agreement with a humiliating list of conditions. Among these conditions is our obligation to cover some of the costs of the European stabilisation mechanism for many years before we eventually become a full member of the Eurozone. On this occasion, Czech National Bank Deputy Governor Moimir Hampl in an interview with the online edition omfif.org said: "No government with at least a little dignity could accept these conditions. From a country like the Czech Republic's point of view, the consequence of Bulgaria's experience is that it is difficult to imagine a government with enough self-respect to even consider taking the path to the Eurozone. The costs have already been high, but since summer they have been practically critical. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following interrelated questions. First, what are the financial dimensions of the commitments made by Bulgaria by sums and deadlines to cover the costs of the European stabilisation mechanism, and what will be the source of these funds? Secondly, why has this issue not been discussed in the Committee on Budget and Finance of the National Assembly? If the Central Bank of a far more developed economy such as Czech economy considers that the costs are dissuasive, isn't it appropriate for them to inform the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you are, Minister Goranov, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u74	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear Professor Gechev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will not dwell on the comments of a Czech central bank deputy governor because, if we look at the substance, not only does it not correspond to the truth, but also does not represent the official position of the Czech central bank and the Czech state. Firstly, I would like to clarify that Bulgaria will not have commitments to the European stabilisation mechanism for many years before the adoption of the euro, as you claim in your exhibition. Bulgaria will have contributions to the Mechanism only from the moment it enters the Eurozone. More importantly, however, at the same time the country will also have access to the funds provided by the Mechanism in the event of an economic crisis. Bulgaria, as well as the other Eurozone member states, has a 500 billion crisis fund behind them. EUR, which is about 10 times more than the country's current gross domestic product. In other words, in practice Bulgaria obtains insurance, which is aid in difficult times. Access to the European Stabilisation Mechanism (ESM) is, I dare say, and one of the great and underappreciated benefits of membership in the Eurozone, because it is an essential part of the protection mechanisms of the Eurozone, which have been built in recent years. The contributions to the Mechanism are based on the key for the paid capital in the European Central Bank, that is, Bulgaria's share is determined by analogy with our share in the capital of the European Central Bank. The initial capital allocation payments shall be allocated to five-year parts by 20% each. The first contribution should be paid by each Member State immediately after its accession to the ESM. The remaining contributions should be paid in the next four years after accession on the date of payment of the first contribution. For countries with gross domestic product per capita less than 75% of the European Union average, a temporary discount key is used, giving a greater burden to national income. A transitional period is envisaged for these countries up to 12 years after their entry into the Eurozone. Upon expiry of this period, or upon reaching 75% of the average gross domestic product for the European Union, the amount of capital to be paid up shall be revalued on the basis of the key to the European Central Bank's contribution to the European Central Bank and the difference should be brought in. Due to the fact that the gross domestic product per person in Bulgaria is below 75% of the EU average, the country will use the adapted temporary key in calculating the contributions of 0.5639% of the ESM capital. Thus, in the first five years after entering the Eurozone, according to our calculations with data for 2017, Bulgaria would pay 91 million. EUR per year, representing approximately 0,16% of today's gross domestic product level or approximately 0,45% of the 2018 budget. After the fifth year and by the end of the transitional period, Bulgaria will have no financial commitments and no contributions to the Fund for the next seven years. On the 12th year of entry into the Eurozone, or when it reaches 75% of the average gross domestic product for the European Union, Bulgaria must make the difference between the full and temporary key for the contribution, which, based on data from 2017, amounts to 238 million. EUR total, approximately 0,43 of today's gross domestic product, or 1.2% of the 2018 budget. It is clear from the above that as a share of the gross domestic product and the country's budget the contributions are not strong for the country, placed in the context of the new opportunities and benefits that access to ESM will give Bulgaria. As for your question, why has the subject not been discussed in the Committee on Budget and Finance at the National Assembly, I would like to emphasise that this stage is too far from any formal financial commitments relating to the Eurozone and its institutions to impose such a discussion. There are still many talks with the European partners and work on our part before we reach the stage where the exact contributions to ESM will be determined. When this moment comes, the legal procedures will be strictly followed and the National Assembly and its competent committees will have the opportunity to exercise their powers in discussing the individual parameters of the adoption of the euro in the country. Following Bulgaria's letter of intent, I would like to point out that the Eurozone went through an unprecedented crisis, during which it realized that it must increase its membership criteria and strengthen its financial architecture through the creation of a Banking Union and a Capital Markets Union, enhanced supervision of financial institutions and an effective framework for combating money laundering. Bulgaria is the first to officially wish to enter the Eurozone after the crisis, and should accordingly comply with objective reality and change in the environment. But, once again, until...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u75	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u76	...we do not enter the Eurozone, we do not have any financial commitments, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u77	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Here's a line for you, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u78	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Goranov! If you neglect the opinion of the Vice-President of the Czech Bank, it is your right and it is understandable. But how will you respond for your interview posted to the Ministry of Finance on 30 June 2017? To the question: what is the position for Bulgaria's entry into the Banking Union before the Eurozone, you say: The problem is.. You are saying that there is one non-reciprocity.. they will make decisions with respect to these three banks without in any way BNB being able to intervene in this decision. We will not have the right to vote, and we will be expected to save them! Those are your words, aren't they? You answer Krassi Jankov on 23 March 2018 on the issue of the Bank Union and the Eurozone and say: "There is no way you can be a member of the Bank Union without being a member of the Eurozone. And I agree with you. What happened a few months later? Why has the position of the Bulgarian government changed? Because he's an apprentice. The same as in Schengen we meet all the conditions, do not want this government to enter Schengen! We meet the conditions for the Eurozone, the waiting room, they don't want us, they come up with new conditions! The whole of Eastern Europe laughs at us. The Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary. You're changing your position in a year! You are here adamant, not the vice president of the Czech bank. And now, what are you going to do to justify it? But, Mr. Goranov, colleague, we are Bulgarians! They will want us to enter the Eurozone tomorrow on condition that, first, we become the world champion of football, then we enter the Eurozone. A little more dignity! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u79	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Here you are, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u80	Dear Professor Gechev, I understand that this is your pro-European position, but I will give you a chance to meet you on the website of the Ministry of Finance, and in many other places already publicly, what are the commitments of the Bulgarian state, in the face of the government, and the Bulgarian National Bank, have made as a commitment. If you believe that strengthening banking supervision and strengthening the supervision of non-banking financial institutions, fighting money laundering and all other commitments that we have made here are something that violates the dignity of Bulgarian citizens, I do not think so. I will continue to defend the thesis that entering the Eurozone something that we have long undertaken as a commitment with our accession to the European Union will lead to significant economic advantages for the whole society and will lead to an increase in the wealth of Bulgarian citizens, something that has been seen to happen in all countries that have joined the Eurozone in recent years. The fact is that our understanding was that we can both apply for ERM and for close cooperation with the European Central Bank with regard to supervision. We were confident by all Member States that, in the context of building the pillars of the Banking Union, we can simultaneously establish close cooperation and apply for ERM 2. Before applying for ERM 2 and establishing close cooperation, however, preparatory action by the European Central Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank is needed, as well as the Bulgarian banks. In the summer of next year, we will assess and will be assured whether the European Central Bank agrees to cooperate closely with regard to the supervision of our banks, and otherwise everything else that you quoted in the interviews, and I am glad that you are following these speeches remains valid. However, the fact is that if we aim to join the Eurozone, we must go through the steps that our European partners have provided for such a mechanism after the establishment of the Bank Union. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Banking Union has been functioning in practice since 2014 and then there is no country that has joined. From now on, all countries that want to enter the Eurozone will first have to cooperate closely with the European Central Bank in terms of supervision. I'm not ashamed and I'm not worried about any commitment we've made. I can leave you the commitment letter to assess whether any of them are reproachable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u81	Allow me to thank Mr. Vladislav Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer a question from Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov about information in the media about brutally beaten and subsequently died Bulgarian citizen on the territory of the capital. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question with Mr. Velkov is dictated by information that has come out in the media, for brutally attacked, beaten and subsequently died Bulgarian citizen. This happened on October 7, shortly after the case of the murdered journalist in Ruse. There's conflicting information regarding the case. First it is said that he was beaten, found later the next day, was taken to the Military Medical Academy, was treated. Subsequently, after about ten days he died. What is disturbing in this case is the information given to the parents from the First District Police Department. The parents were answered that this case was more related to alcohol use and, you see, this senior manager from a telecommunications company fell into a shaft, which is why he suffered some injuries resulting from which he died. In this regard, I would like to clarify this case, because it is another case, speaking of crime most likely, subsequent murder. I would like to ask you in this regard: Have you been informed of this case? Has this entered the bulletins of the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs for the stated date? Last but not least: what are the measures you have taken to identify the perpetrators? Has pre-trial proceedings been initiated in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Come in for an answer, Minister Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, Dear Mr. Velkov, the case of the deceased 32-year-old citizen is known to the Ministry of Interior and is published in Newsletter No 280 from 8 October 2018 of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, reflecting the crimes and accidents that occurred on the territory of the capital for the period from 06.00 on 07.10.2018 to 06.00 on 08.10.2018. In the case of pre-trial proceedings under No 2480 of 2018 according to the description of the First Regional Government of SDVR, for a criminal offence under art. 124 of the Penal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria. A number of operational and search and investigation activities have been carried out and continue to be conducted under the supervision of the Prosecutor's Office for the identification of the reasons which led to the accident, as well as the possible perpetrators of the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your information. I'm glad you're working on the case. Here I would like to raise the more serious issue which is related to the policy of the Ministry of Interior to prevent such crimes from being reduced. We are all aware that we are currently at the same critical level in terms of trust in the institutions and specifically with the Ministry of Interior. People are not feeling secure, so I would like you to pay attention and we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we will monitor from here on the policy that the Ministry of Interior implements, and we hope that it will be done to ensure that, as an organization, there are sufficient authorities of order where necessary, and that there is no more to such brutal, brutal crimes, which will make even the image of the Bulgarian state worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I just want to bring some clarity. I don't want to make suggestions about a specific criminal act. I said the pre-trial proceedings under art. 124 of the NK. This is for causing death by recklessness, and I would not want to leave the suggestion that it has been proven that there is a perpetrator and that this is a crime committed by a particular person. There's a pre-trial procedure. When it is over, if you are interested, I hope that we will bring more information to the public, as now the Law does not allow us, but let us not rush to make the suggestion that this is a deliberate act. It's still under investigation. It could turn out to be quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u89	Allow me to thank Mr. Mladen Marinov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The question is about the reality of the opportunities for integration of people suffering from dementia. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my real question is: what are the opportunities for integration of people suffering from dementia? The population in the world, in Europe and in Bulgaria is ageing. That's clear. Currently in the world, from 3 to 6% of the population between 65 and 79 years of age and 20 to 30% of the population between 80 and 95 years of dementia, and in the next 20 years the number of patients is expected to jump three times due to an increase in the average life expectancy. I won't tell you what a disease dementia is. It's extremely serious about brain dysfunction, memory, thinking, talking, problem solving, attention. A man loses his intellectual qualities, but he loses his social capacity. This is a disease seen in adults and the likelihood of occurrence increases with age, most often after 65 years. This requires a special attitude of the state towards these people. It makes a man who can handle life on his own, in one who can't. When a family member has to change the rhythm of his life and be excluded from the country's labour resources, if I may say so, in order to deal with a person with such a disease in the late stages of the disease, it is necessary to spend more than 12 hours a day caring for him. That's what people who care about people with dementia say. In this regard, Minister, I will ask for your answers: are there statistics in Bulgaria on the number of people affected by dementia? Is Bulgarian society aware of the importance of the problems related to the demented patients? Are you satisfied with the level of care our country gives to people with this disease? Do you think adequate health and social services are provided for them? Is these people's integration real, or is it just a chimera? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u92	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow ministers! Dear Mr. Gokov, the 2017 data of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis show that under the supervision of psychiatric institutions there were 2557 persons with dementia. In view of the ageing of the population in Bulgaria, including the reporting of the problem, the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the field of long-term care are aimed at ensuring accessible, quality and sustainable social services in the community and in the home environment. These services are an important tool for improving the quality of life of elderly people and people with disabilities and real support for their families. The Action Plan adopted by Decision No 28 of 19 January this year of the Council of Ministers for the period 2018 - 2021 for the implementation of the National Strategy for Long-term Care gives priority to the creation of a hundred new social services in the community with the possibility of supporting 2140 users. Specific measures and activities are also in place to support people suffering from dementia and their families. For them will be built six specialized daily centers for a minimum of 240 users. Seven centers for resident care for 105 people with different forms of dementia will be created. The six daily centers will be built in the municipalities of Sofia, Varna, Kyustendil, Kardzhali, Kazanlak and Smolyan, and the seven resident care centres in the municipalities of Gabrovo, Dimitrovgrad, Plovdiv, Pernik, Ruse, Varna and Kardzhali, according to the maps established in the Plan. The implementation activities of the measures have already started. All municipalities have submitted their project proposals on the operation for the construction of infrastructure for the new services under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" for the period 2014 - 2020. The location of the services is agreed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Action Plan also provides for the development of patronage care, which will cover more than 17 thousand users, including people suffering from dementia. The operation has been approved by the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and is due to be announced by the end of the year. Upon completion of the project financing under the operational programmes for the new services, sustainability from the state budget is planned. During the implementation of the plan, a Communication strategy will also be implemented which aims to increase public intolerance towards the manifestations of disregard for the rights and personality of disabled persons and to build a host attitude in society, including with regard to people suffering from dementia. As of September 2018, 26 services for specialized support and resident care for people with dementia, namely 21 family-type accommodation centres for people with dementia and 5 family-type accommodation centers for old people, function with funding from the state budget. In 80 day centers and 97 centers for social rehabilitation and integration of people with disabilities who are financed by the state are also offered the opportunity to support people suffering from dementia. The provision of social services in the home environment with funding from the state budget continues and, at the end of September 2018, the assistant service has used more than 25 thousand users, and people with different forms of dementia can also use these assistant services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u93	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Mr. Gokov, come in. You have the opportunity to make a reply to this answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer, all the more so that it is the only question you have today, and you have come to answer me. I, first of all, along with my thanks, would also like to express a doubt that the number of people registered or observed with dementia is not able to respond to the truth. I was quoting you a little while ago about the global trend. Currently in the world from 3 to 6% of the population between 65 and 79 years of age and 20 years of 30 per cent between 80 and 95 years of a rough account of older people, at least only pensioners are 2 million 170 thousand, if we consider them 2 million and a half, 0.3% of them are about 75 to 80 thousand, so the gap is total and perhaps measures should be taken in this direction. Mr. Minister, thank you for everything you do and will do in the future. I know that, as colleagues say, we are neither Kuwait nor Qatar, nor are we with their financial capabilities to provide everyone with even normal existence, so I am telling you that I understand what you are doing, including the measures you are taking in this direction. I have asked it more in order to pay attention to you as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in general to the government in Bulgaria, whoever they are, no matter who governs the state, that such a problem exists and in the very near future it will grow and increase. We must try to change the attitude of society towards these people and take relief measures, because those people who are deprived of the opportunity to go to work because of the care of adults and demented people are resources for the state as labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? No. Allow me to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are addressing the questions addressed to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. He will answer first a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov about the Center for the Treatment of Children. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u96	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Ananiev, honourable colleagues! The Fund for the Treatment of Children will move on to the National Health Insurance Fund. With this passage the Public Council, which included specialists, NGOs, mothers and fathers of the children who are being treated, will be abolished. This raised public indignation, as the Public Council was the human point of view, not the medical expertise. My question to you, Minister, is that after the Children's Treatment Fund goes to the National Health Insurance Fund, what changes will happen and how will the Fund's work be organised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Minister Ananiev, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, adopted at the first vote of the National Assembly on 6 November 2018, proposed the transition to the National Health Insurance Fund of the administration of the activities carried out at the moment by the Center for the Treatment of Children and the Commission for Treatment Abroad established to the Minister of Health. The purpose of the proposed restructuring is to align procedures and funding, regardless of the age of patients, by providing a point of contact in the face of the NHIF to administer and finance treatment activities. The forms for treatment abroad will only be issued by the National Health Insurance Fund as a competent institution. Financial resources will be provided by the Ministry of Health through transfer. The process will take place without the withdrawal of existing rights of patients in need for access to treatment and will not be able to be used for other purposes. The expected result is optimizing the procedures for approving treatment of the patients shown by reducing the waiting period, as well as achieving better financial discipline by the only funding body through a more precise assessment of the needs and amount of financial assistance. Full transparency will be ensured. The NHIF takes decisions on the basis of objective and clear medical criteria based on European requirements and regulations for the treatment of foreign nationals: children and adults abroad. There are no complaints of lack of transparency by the NHIF regarding the people who are being treated abroad from the Cassata budget. This proves the higher administrative capacity than the existing structures. Upon final adoption by the National Assembly of the proposal for the restructuring of the Center for the Treatment of Children, within three months from the entry into force of the Law, the necessary regulatory acts should be issued to settle all relations with regard to the taking-up and implementation of the relevant activities by the NHIF. Some of the issues to be settled are related precisely to the organisation of the work of the health insurance institution, and in this sense I expect all opportunities to be discussed and the most appropriate solution to be proposed with a view to ensuring the work process for ensuring all activities related to the treatment of Bulgarian children. There is a discussion on the possibility of setting up the administrative capacity of the Center for the Treatment of Children Fund as a department in the Directorate for Social Security and Coordination of Social Security Systems in the Central Management of the NHIF. The number of the department will be within the total number of the health insurance institution. To this end, changes will be made to the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as to a number of internal rules of the health insurance institution. According to the Draft Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 until the entry into force of the regulations containing a detailed framework of the relations in relation to the taking-up and implementation of the relevant activities by the National Health Insurance Fund, the procedures for applications for payment of medical and other activities by the Center for the Treatment of Children are to be examined and paid in the current order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u99	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u100	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Here is the point to mention that I myself in 2005 was assisted by the Fund for the Treatment of Children. My only concern is that when he gets into the National Health Insurance Fund, and we know what budget she has and that she's actually a big bank... But you said there would be complete transparency that everyone hoped for. In fact, we'll wait and see if that's okay, because right now the aid funds are going to the National Health Insurance Fund, which is a positive change for me personally, but we actually have to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u102	I will repeat what I said in my main statement to calm people down. The resource that will come from the Ministry of Finance through the budget of the Ministry of Health goes as a target transfer. It cannot be used for other purposes. Everything that has been financed so far by the Center for the Treatment of Children is also being financed by the National Health Insurance Fund. We rely very much on the capacity of the Cashier because it currently manages 80 million for these activities for the treatment of children and elderly people abroad. lv. So far, there has been no complaint regarding the spending of these funds or has anyone received the necessary medical, organisational care for their treatment. I'm sure we're taking a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u103	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. We're going to the next question. He is asked by the MP Todor Baychev and Tsvetan Topchiev about opportunities for providing urgent medical assistance. Here you are, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u104	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, in October 2018, we visited the villages of Avren, Egrek, Chernichevo and other neighboring settlements in Krumovgrad municipality, Kardzhali district. During the talks with local residents, it became clear that they were experiencing serious difficulties in providing adequate healthcare and, in particular, emergency medical care. The villages are located in mountain areas, are remote from a large administrative center and are inhabited mainly by adults. As a dominant part of the Bulgarian population, the same paid their health insurance and relied on the care of the state to provide normal health insurance. In this regard, our question to you is: what are the opportunities for providing urgent medical assistance to the residents of the village of Avren, Chernichevo village, Egrek village and other neighboring villages in Krumovgrad municipality, Kardzhali district? What action will you take to ensure the peace of the local population in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. You are welcome to answer the question asked, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u106	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Dr. Topchiev! Emergency medical care for the population of Krumovgrad municipality is provided by an emergency medical care branch - Krumovgrad, located in the building of the municipal hospital Hospital. The emergency medical file is a structural unit of the Center for Emergency Medical Care. With two medical teams, one mobile medical team with 18 states and one stationary team with 6 states and two medics with a total number of 26 people. In order to carry out its activities, the subsidiary is equipped with sufficient medical equipment for diagnostics and with three sanitary vehicles, ambulances to carry out emergency calls. Taking into account the problems with the medical provision of the population in border municipalities, mountain and semi-mountain areas related to lack of medical personnel, lack of hospital care facilities, unoccupied practices for primary and specialised outpatient medical care, with the available resources, an organization has been established to provide adequate medical care under emergency conditions. Specifically for the municipality of Krumovgrad, a flexible organization was established in the emergency care branch to create a second mobile team of available personnel. For example, if there is a need to transport a patient in an emergency state to the hospital at the hospital, Doctor Atanas Dafovski is in Kardzhali, which implies the absence of the mobile team in the order of 3 hours, a second mobile team of available medical personnel and a driver is formed, which is available. In this way, in Krumovgrad, there is a continuous presence of a mobile medical team responding to all emergency medical calls. On the territory of the municipality of Krumovgrad are situated 80 settlements with population in the majority of less than 100 inhabitants. The geographical infrastructure does not allow the emergency medical team from the emergency medical care branch.. Krumovgrad to reach all settlements within 8 to 30 minutes. The villages quoted by you are 21, 35 and 26 km away and the mobile medical team to reach them due to mountain terrain is between 25 and 40 minutes, respectively. During the 9 months of 2018 from the same villages, 20, 16 and 7 emergency medical calls were received respectively, implemented in due time by the Emergency Medical Services Branch. Taking into account the fact that the building fund, medical equipment and the fleet of the entire emergency medical care system are not in good condition and the technical means are significantly depreciated, and in order to improve the opportunities for emergency medical care in the whole country, the Ministry of Health, as you know, has launched a large investment project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system" through which the building fund will be renovated, will completely replace medical equipment in the system and will buy new sanitary vehicles. In the town of Krumovgrad under the Project will be performed a complete reconstruction of the currently occupied by the emergency medical facilities branch and to them will be added new, renovated rooms for manipulation and short-term monitoring of emergency patients. For renewal the fleet of the emergency medical care system under the Project is intended to buy 400 new sanitary cars. The first cars will be delivered in the first half of 2019, including for this region there will be new ambulances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u107	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Mr. Baychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u108	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Minister Ananiev's response was rather formal and an attempt to come out with honor from a situation of which he is an heir, and there is still the least contribution to the state of Bulgarian healthcare. However, I would like to return it a little bit to the GERB government, to which it is a member. There is a document called Management Priorities 2017 " 2021." A rather ambitious name, as if they would manage by 2021, says in the Health Section: Overcoming regional imbalances and ensuring functional interaction between individual levels of medical care. Department and resource provision of emergency assistance by improving the conditions for the training and qualification of specialists, as well as the pay-off Minister Ananiev rightly noted that Krumovgrad municipality is from 80 settlements, the furthest is the village of Bryagets, which is 55 km away. It will be a little difficult to explain to these people now that only the terrain is crossed, the roads are bad and at present there is only one team. People don't care about that. They're interested in how fast they can get to the hospital. By the way, while you were talking, I was quick to calculate the calls from the three villages that you listed. But in a meeting with the people they explicitly state, Mr. Minister, that they do not call, because they have concerns that the ambulance will be late.... it has happened to be at another address and to wait for further return to the center or to go to the address to which the sick person is. For this reason, it is necessary, in their vast part, for people to move themselves, to organize themselves through relatives and acquaintances. In this regard, I would invite you to go out on the stand again and say would you engage in the final implementation of the project, with some date regarding Krumovgrad Municipality: when will the repairs be completed, the renovation of the hospital, when will the ambulances be received as a deadline, and not just to be a wish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u110	Dear Dr. Baychev, according to our schedule for the implementation of the Project we plan to receive the first two ambulance prototypes in position 1 and position 4. As far as position 2 and position 3 is concerned, the high-passers and 4x4 ambulances have now announced the procedure for conducting the relevant tender and we expect that there will be candidates to participate in this procedure. Our desire is to receive all ambulances by the end of 2019 to ensure that they arrive at the places where they are most needed, where ambulances are most amortized. I am saying this because I believe that this project is very important for the introduction of the new health insurance model and the corresponding restructuring of hospital aid. There are things that don't depend on us. These are the appeals of public procurement. It's the only thing that can slow the project down. Otherwise, at the Ministry of Health, you know, a year ago this project was put on logs. In a few months we have made a very serious effort and this project is being implemented successfully. I hope that we do not have great obstacles beyond our control to meet that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u111	Allow me to thank Mr. Kiril Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Next are the questions to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. She will answer a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Tasco Ermenkov concerning the contract for the sale of the claims of Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Mr. Ermenkov and I have asked you a written question about the obligations of the Sofia Toplophication to the Bulgarian Energy Holding and based on the answer we have received, we are also asking this oral question to you. In the reply you reply to us that on 28 August the Bulgarian Energy Holding with a contract buys out the claims that Bulgargaz lv. You are telling us that the agreement was signed on the basis of your consent by letter, but the conditions under which these funds will be reversed will be specified. We ask the logical question: how is it possible to give consent to commitments within 100 million without being clear the conditions and guarantees under which they will be returned? Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that the Sofia thermal efficiency has already been subject to this type of agreement once. The Bulgarian Energy Holding took over 500 million in 2015. So the total amount of liabilities currently is 600 million to the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Currently, only interest rates are being served. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that according to the reference I saw, as of June 30, 2018, the Sofia thermal efficiency has a total obligation of over 740 million. lv. Also, the loss of the company as of 30 June this year is 11 million. Eight hundred and seventy-seven If you see the reports, you will see that in 2017 the company ends up with a loss of nearly 35 million. lv. The logical question is how and how will this company recover the money to the Bulgarian Energy Holding? Our question with Mr. Ermenkov to you is: on what grounds, under what guarantees have you agreed to undertake this debt? Why is there no commitment by the Sofia company to improve the management of the company? There are no adequate policies to reduce the company's debt and restore the money to the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Otherwise, Madam Minister, it seems that the poor management of Sofia thermal efficiency and the responsibility of Sofia Municipality will be transferred to the Bulgarian government and hence to all Bulgarian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u113	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev, Mr. Ermenkov! The question you are asking is really very important. This issue stands in the sphere of both energy and Sofia Municipality a long time ago. They do not date the relationship with respect to these 500 million since 2015, they start from 2002, to be quite accurate. Before I read the official opinion on this issue, I would like to make one clarification. In all likelihood it is about some misunderstanding in relation to the written answer that I have provided, as my permission concerns the agreement for a mission concluded between "Bulgargaz" and "Bulgarian Energy Holding" EAD with regard to the acquisition of the claim of "Bulgargaz" by the Toplofication Sofia. On 28 August 2018, I have given my permission to conclude the mission contract. As for the contract between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Sofia Toplofication, regarding how, at what time, under what conditions this obligation will be paid, this contract has not yet been concluded and has not been signed. I will read the terms of this contract. In August this year, talks were held between the Ministry of Energy and the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which reached agreement on the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of the claims of Bulgargaz 192,000. £898. By its protocol decision the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding has approved the conclusion of the contract with the Bulgarian Energy Holding for the sale of the claims of the Bulgarian Energy Holding for the sale of the claims of Bulgargas. On the basis of art. 24 of the Statute of the Bulgarian Energy Holding The Board of Directors of the Holding with Protocol No 51/2018 of 24 August 2018 has decided to adopt the draft valuation of the claims, agreed the conclusion of the contract for purchase and sale of the claims subject to the assessment and is entrusted to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding to enter into a contract with the Bulgarian Energy Holding in accordance with the agreed project. After my approval, given by letter No E-26-6-484 of 27 August 2018 as exercising the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the contract between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Bulgarian Energy Holding was concluded on the basis of art. 99 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts under the following conditions. "Bulgargaz" transferred claims to the Bulgarian Energy Holding "Bulgarian Energy Holding" EAD together with all their privileges, collaterals and other accessories and share rights, including the interest due by Sofia "Topplofication" with a total value of 99 million. 192,000. £898. The claims arose on the basis of a contract of 7 October 2015. Against the transferred claims BEH is obliged to pay a price of 99 million to Bulgargas. 192,000. £898. within 28 August 2018 If the amount referred to in point 2 is not paid within the specified time limit, the Bulgarian Energy Holding Ltd. shall owe to the amount of EUR 3.6% per year on the outstanding amount until the date of the final payment. As I mentioned, the negotiations are still under way between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Sofia Topplofication with regard to the conclusion of the terms of the contract for receivables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u115	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Ermenkov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u116	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! We can't be happy with that answer. The fact that "Bulgarian Energy Holding" EAD takes the duties of "Toplofication Sofia" versus "Bulgargaz" on itself is a very important and expensive step, which is taken, given the financial situation of "Bulgarian Energy Holding" EAD, and the fact that "Toplofication Sofia" continues to owe more than 500 million to the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Instead of having some scheme under which this debt will be paid, not just interest, we decide to load the Bulgarian energy holding company with another 100 million. Madam Minister, the question we are asking is an element of our concern for Bulgaria's energy security. It is clear to all of us that, with total power, the Sofia Topplofication is equal to one of the nuclear units of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and there is no way that our energy system can function and be stable without "Toplofication Sofia." What you are currently doing with the periodic buying-in of the debts of the Toplofication to the Bulgargaz will at some point lead to a state in which even the Lord will come will not be able to settle the debts of the Toplofication to the State. You will be forced by the circumstances, by the fact that the operation must be kept. Because there is no other way in which things can be resolved, in the way that the operation works. I would just like to remind you that in one year, the total liabilities of the "Topplofication" increased from 600 to 740 million. That's about the month of June this year. Then, instead of "Toplofication Sofia" to fix its governance and to work in a normal way, all Bulgarian citizens will be obliged to pay these debts. Do not become an accomplice to a bad management of a company related to energy! Do not take on yourself those negatives that will then affect all Bulgarian citizens who are not guilty of the fact that the management of Sofia's Toplofication is incompetent to deal with their commitments! They don't have an investment programme that's fine with them, their collection rate is low. After all, all this incompetence will be paid by all Bulgarians, for you are taking on debts that are not clear why and how they will be returned. Madam Minister, very please be so kind when you approve the terms of the contract of the Bulgarian Energy Holding JSC with the "Topplofication Sofia" very clearly to be set the conditions in what way, when and within what time these debts will be returned. Mr. Boychev and I will continue to monitor this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for your concern, Mr. Ermenkov, with regard to Sofia. You yourself mentioned how important this company is about the country's energy security, what its role is, a place in our energy system. The other very important thing that we need to know when it comes to "Topplofication" and its debts is that they are not accumulated from yesterday, today or last year. They've been generated since 2002 and they're actually piling up these obligations. What the management of the Sofia Municipality does is to make efforts to increase the collection rate. This collection is undoubtedly increased. The other thing we need to know is that the Sofia Topplofication is the biggest client of Bulgargaz and nearly 40% of the revenues and, accordingly, the consumption of natural gas is used precisely by the Sofia Toplofication. So the functions of the Bulgarian Energy Holding is still a financial holding company that we should not forget, is not an operating holding company, its main role is to support its subsidiaries through this type of funding or to intervene when it is necessary to protect the country's energy security and take adequate action accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MP Hristo Prodanov about the continuous blackout in the settlements of the Pancharevo region. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Madam Minister, in recent weeks the protests of the people living in the settlements in the region of Pancharevo have become very frequent, and the protests are related to the fact that the current is constantly shutting down in their homes. This problem is not from yesterday and today. He's been more than three years. Apart from the inconveniences people experience, they suffer a lot of material damage by burning their technique. Their refrigerators and freezers are burning people are worried about shopping; their air conditioners are burning most of the people in the winter are heated to electricity; they are burned to the televisions. You are taking them away from the opportunity to watch for the spectacular successes that GERB achieves in the management of Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you is: is there any punishment for the damage caused and inconvenience in connection with the blackout in these settlements? Are there sanctions imposed if there are, to what extent are they, and what measures are you taking to remedy this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u121	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mrs. Petkova, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, the fact that GERB is successful is indisputable [[Voices from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Eee!"]] And we're doing everything we can so that people can see them in time. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u123	The whole room is laughing!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u124	Now to the specific question. Pancharevo district falls within the licensing territory of the electricity distribution company CEZ Distribution Bulgaria and the supply of this area and the settlements and fork zones are carried out by five electricity lines 20 kilovolts. These are the power lines from the substation of Detelina, Plovdiv, Pancharevo, Kanu kayak, and Benta. The clients of the company Pancharevo "Kokalyanene" are powered by electricity of 38 pieces of trafopost, owned by CEZ Distribution and 24 pieces of traffoposta of foreign property. With regard to poor quality and frequent power cuts in the Pancharevo region in 2017, the Ministry of Energy received a complaint on which the Ministry's control bodies carried out an inspection of the electricity distribution company in September of that year. It is found that the main reasons for the power outages in the area are poor technical condition at that time of complete transformer post hydroelectric power station, Bones, poor technical condition of some of the Trafoposts that are foreign property and contact of vegetation to air power lines. As a result of the verification carried out by the electricity distribution company, urgent measures were taken to address the reasons for the interruption of power supply. By the end of November 2017, the complete transformer post of hydroelectric power plants was mainly reconstructed and the branches of the trees falling into the waiting area of the air mains were removed accordingly. With regard to the question you have raised: whether there is a penalty for the inconveniences and material damage caused to citizens and what sanctions are imposed, I would like to point out that CEZ Distribution Bulgaria is carrying out its activities by virtue of a licence issued by the former State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the distribution of electricity. The order for the implementation of the financial liability in the event of material damage is regulated in art. 51 of the General Terms of Contracts for the use of the electricity distribution networks of CEZ Distribution. The general conditions shall be approved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and shall form an integral part of the licence. The KEWRC is the competent authority that controls compliance with the general terms and conditions of the contracts which form an integral part of the licence issued by the company. In relation to the question you asked, information was requested from the Dispatch Diary of the CEZ Distribution on the number of power outages in Pancharevo, Kokalyane and Gorublyane for the period from 1 September 2018 to 8 November 2018. Within yesterday we have requested detailed information and clearly provided information about this period the intended exclusions are planned, and I say that they are related precisely to these rehabilitation activities, the modernisation of the network is 7 pieces for which the citizens of these areas are informed in the appropriate order. Unplanned exclusions involving such exclusions in the event of natural conditions, disasters, lightnings and so on, 3 pieces, involving a third party, one exclusion, damage The exclusions are a total of 48 pieces, of which 25 perishable, less than five minutes. In relation to what you are putting as a question regarding the measures we are going to take, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of my order, the information we requested until yesterday on the exclusions in the area, and in relation to your inquiry, the Ministry of Energy control authorities will carry out an inspection in this area in order to verify the technical condition of these facilities. The inspection will begin next week by committing myself to its results to inform you immediately after its completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, about GERB's success in the management seems to be the only one who sees them, but this is another topic. In general, I'm not satisfied with the answer you gave me. Leave me alone, the people who listen to us and are affected, and who experience all these inconveniences, are not satisfied in my opinion. I'll explain why. In the last month and a half you yourself said that the blackouts were about 50 times. That's right, which is extremely unpleasant, agree with me, this cannot happen in a European capital in the 21st century. The closing of the roads, Madam Minister, is an act of extreme despair. People have filed complaints at KEWRC, at CEZ, at the Ministry of Energy and wherever possible, and have been constantly answered with quibbles and so on, and problems are not solved. I tell you: the problems are not from yesterday and today, they are more than three years. I, as MP, believe that in the 21st century people in these regions should have at least electricity. When Mr. Borisov was a candidate for mayor of Sofia 15 years ago, he promised them roads, sewers and so on. He lied to them, he didn't do anything! In the 21st century, these people should at least have electricity. My request to you is to give specific deadlines when these suspension problems will be resolved. People don't care if these are planned stops or damage or whatever. They want one thing: in the 21st century in their homes to have electricity! Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prodanov! In the 21st century, all people have electricity. What is being done specifically in this region, what the CEZ investment programme shows, for which we are receiving information, is that at the moment the CEZ Distribution is making an investment of 28 million. lv. and the introduction of such a type of system is carried out that will allow remote reading and replacement of all electric meters. A large part of the stops are due precisely to these purely technological processes that need to be carried out in order for citizens to receive an even more quality service and not to have similar problems and power cuts. I am using this case to assure you that the Ministry of Energy is making every effort to control this process. We do periodic inspections not only in these areas, we do inspections in all electricity distribution companies. We're checking all the signals that come in to us. Accordingly, mandatory instructions are given, the Commission is informed of energy and water regulation, as all that concerns the licence is entirely within the powers and competences of the KEWRC. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission may also carry out such verification, impose sanctions if this licence is not respected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u129	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. A statement has been filed on behalf of a group. Here you are, Mrs. Nino. You have the floor for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u130	Dear Bulgarian citizens! We know that you have a lot of concerns about raising prices, taxes and fees, low incomes, a sense of injustice, and extremely important questions about our lives. We try to solve them with proposals for development of production, rules for business, progressive taxation, reduction of VAT on medicines and bread. Alas, the leaders of GERB and the United Patriarchs are appealing to these proposals. I believe there will come a time when our proposals will come true. The other plot in recent months is the constant corruption scandals in power. They show their instability and disintegration of the coalition. They have drawn their attention to these issues, we are missing a very important one, whose resolution is literally coming up within weeks of the signing of the United Nations Migration Pact. Europe and we, as a member of the European Union, have experienced many crises - financial, economic, social. Europe has weakened and is separated not so much from them, but mostly from the migrant crisis. The pride of Europe, the value of Europe to remove walls, to have free movement of people, goods and capital, has become distinguished and has started a new lifting of walls between us. In the beginning Mrs Merkel invited everyone to come and started the problems and division. Alas, some European and Bulgarian leaders did not learn from the mistakes. In the Migration Pact, which is due to be signed in early December, there are also some good solutions, as was the Istanbul Convention, behind the texts against domestic violence, to cover up the idea of gender uncertainty, as well as here. Let's see what this is about. We are talking about a document that stimulates greater migration and classifys the same as a good and inevitable phenomenon. It makes a fundamental conclusion that migration is part of human experience in history and we recognise that it can be a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development. Further, the authors of the document put forward the need to promote migration based on free choice, regardless of the reasons that determine this choice, and they can also be environmentally friendly. This document says that migrants who do not have passports should be issued new ones, and if there is one migrant on the territory of Europe, we are obliged to accept his whole family, however large it may be. More than that. Here, the solution to migrant issues comes down to turning illegal migration into legal migration. The migrant pact combines mechanically quite different legal statuses of the refugee, which we are obliged to protect according to all international legal norms and Bulgarian legislation, but here this status is mixed with the seeker of a better life migrant for all reasons economic, social or environmental. Yesterday, at our invitation, we had a meeting with the Ambassador of Austria at BSP headquarters. Austria is currently President of the Council of the European Union. They took over the Presidency from us and, commendably, continued some of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency. During this meeting we talked about our different positions in this case. For information to the Bulgarian citizens, Austria, which is chairing Europe at the moment, at a meeting of its Council of Ministers decided not to sign the Pact and reject it. More than that. The same opinions express Hungary, Poland, Italy and a number of other countries, and the United States withdrew from the Pact. Everywhere in Europe, this topic is discussed, but as usual, in Bulgaria, no, everything goes quietly. Does anyone know, esteemed government or ministers, by what decision and by which body Borisov joins Bulgaria to this pact? The Council of Ministers did not, the parliament even less. Where and who decided Bulgaria to join these decisions? What will be the consequences for Bulgaria because these people are required to join our social and health systems and provide them with quite serious rights and opportunities. I'm not talking about refugees from wars, I'm not talking about legal ones, but I'm talking about those we now have to accept by virtue of this pact. We want a debate on this. You cannot bring Bulgaria into this without discussion, public opinion, parliament, Council of Ministers or institution that has taken this decision. The only clue that something is going to happen officially is the increase in money in the 2019 budget for asylum and migration. Only from there can we know that something will happen, but otherwise, total silence. Yesterday Mr. Borisov had an argument with the European People's Party, writes. He yelled at them. This is his political family and it is a bit strange because for ten years Mr. Borisov blindly follows the policy of Mrs. Merkel and the EPP. She says: "Come, migrants! "......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is this the Bulgarian national interest? Is this European interest?! Now Mrs Merkel is obviously leaving. Against its current policy, moods are rising as leading countries in Europe - pillars and governments of Europe, including right-wing ones, such as Chancellor Kurtz, as Viktor Orban stand up and oppose these policies. And why shouldn't Mr. Borisov try to take the turn now? So for ten years, you follow blindly and obediently, and now you see that something changes and takes the turn and scolds its own political family, but this turn is very sharp. We remember what foreign policy has been taking place in the last ten years. In addition, it seems that this turn is in words only because the Bulgarian government is acting in favour of the UN Migration Pact. Because you are always talking, honourable opponents and speakers outside this room, that there was no alternative: what was BSP doing for Bulgaria (BSP) in the last two years? It's very easy to walk along the stream nicely, carry you and you're on top of the glory and respect, at the pat on the shoulder. We have dared to swim against the current in these two years. It is difficult, it is exhausting, but it is obviously useful and obviously the path of Europe today is in this direction, in which we have been going for two years painfully, because we have allowed ourselves with many risks to say even to our political family, to the Party of European Socialists. We had the temper to do it. After two years, Europe is obviously beginning to realize that this is the right policy. Europe is beginning to return to its true values, to its fundamental values. It's a little late, but better late than never. Because the current policy of the European People's Party, Angela Merkel's personal position has given birth to unacceptable, extreme nationalist and populist formations that are dangerous. The pendulum went from one extreme to globalism, neoliberalism, to the absolute other extreme to populism, anarchism, violence, nationalist formations and so on. The task of smart European and Bulgarian leaders and politicians today is to stop this pendulum where Europe's interest is, where the mind and interest of our peoples in Europe are. And it is: an alliance of equal European countries as it was founded; a union of equal European countries around common values that also take into account the national interest of each of these countries. In the name of this objective and this different Europe, which she herself went down, but in which we have the confidence to say that we have been walking for two years. In the name of this, we want a debate in the Bulgarian Parliament on Bulgaria's position on the UN Migration Pact and we will take the parliamentary mechanisms to happen. We want the Prime Minister to come and explain who, when and why did he decide to join Bulgaria in this Pact, which does not protect the Bulgarian national interest and European values? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] You have the floor for a statement, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking this declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group to challenge some of the false allegations, or rather the only true statement that was in the previous statement that on 10 and 11 December this year the Migrant Pact will be considered in Marrakesh. First of all, it should be said that this is a legally non-binding framework for dialogue on the topic of something that does not bind Bulgaria, and there is no decision of the Council of Ministers, by the way there is no decision of the government. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to follow the National Assembly's Programme a little bit, because just next Wednesday, the Foreign Affairs and Security Committee will hold a debate with the three different ministries that have participated in the negotiation process, namely the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a joint meeting to discuss the Bulgarian position. According to this discussion and the documents to be provided to the National Assembly, the National Assembly will come up with its position. After all, the Council of Ministers by 1 December has to decide on the composition of the Bulgarian delegation to Marrakesh and on the Bulgarian position in which representatives of the presidential institution, the prime minister, the minister of foreign affairs can take part and thus Bulgaria can express its position. Parliament's role will be heard in this position. That's why we have a debate on the subject on November 14th. I hope that the BSP will participate in this debate and be an active opposition so that we still have a consensus that we have always tried to achieve, or at least by the ruling majority, we are trying to find on the topic of migration. Regarding whether Bulgaria will support or not support the document, a decision is yet to be made, but even if it supports the pact in question, it still needs to be voted on. To ask: how is a document supported that has not yet been voted on? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Convince me. On December 10th, it must be voted on. By 1 December the Bulgarian side and the Council of Ministers must decide. On November 14th, the Bulgarian Parliament will sit on the topic in committee so that this decision can be taken. And even if the pact in question is supported, it is not legally binding. Follow the procedure in the UN after the possible adoption in Marrakesh of this pact should be continued with a UN resolution that has yet to be drafted. By the way, if you read slightly more carefully the content itself, you will see that in much overlaps the previous migration policies of Bulgaria and it is explicitly written that each Member State can determine its own migration policy, that is, any country that has supported it or not, can also maintain its migration policy and support it as it has supported it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come to the discussion, participate, be constructive once so that we can still come up with a national position! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. We continue with a question to Mr. Krasimir Valchev from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov. It is about the possibility of e-learning students. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is known that all textbooks from first to seventh grade in the Republic of Bulgaria are electronically provided for training by electronic means. Unfortunately, the opportunities that exist in Bulgarian schools and especially in the initial phase of training are not particularly facilitable. I personally managed to get to know that question. My specific question to you as the principal of the Ministry of Education is: what measures are being taken by the Minister and the team of the Ministry of Education to ensure the opportunities for e-learning of Bulgarian children in the first seven years of their training, as this issue has not only a pedagogical but also a purely physiological aspect. Even one of the programs, which is currently implemented as prevention and control of health care, is the program for monitoring skeletal distortions in Bulgarian students. Therefore, the question is extremely important to us and I ask you to answer it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u135	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mikhailov! The introduction of electronic communication technologies into the education system is a permanent and inevitable process. The fact is that information technology changes both lifestyle and the way children teach. Soon there was a debate about and against mobile phones. In fact, there are no countries that have banned electronic devices, and what they have done is to limit the use of mobile phones as means of conversation in class, but there is a common consensus that it should be extended through information technology, as well as information technology training. You mentioned providing access to e-reading versions of textbooks, but this is a small step. I would say that even this is a primitive form of electronization of learning. This measure was rather aimed at reducing the weight of the backpacks. The electronicisation of training as a concept contains many other larger steps that need to be taken. First, the nets that need to be created. This is a core network in which the State Agency is investing. Also a support network. There is one at the moment, but it has to expand continuously as speed. Secondly, local networks in educational institutions, so-called WiFi networks. We had about the beginning of this year WiFi to cover almost all rooms in schools or mainly over 80% of classrooms from nearly 1100 schools. Perhaps by the spring of next year there should be in all schools, so this is an investment that we are also making. The other very important thing is the electronic content. Currently there are various types of platforms in the education system with electronic lessons, videos, videos and so on, but they are paid. What we are doing is currently a project for which we have an approved criterion for the selection of an operation under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" with several main activities, one of which is the construction of the so-called electronic cloud. This is a repository of free electronic content available, electronic lessons that teachers will also create. What we're actually doing is what all the other countries are doing a little later or a little earlier. Finally, there is the opportunity to enjoy these electronic lessons. This is done either with frontal training in the classroom with projectors, electronic boards, other screens or with personal end devices. With regard to the possibility of front learning, the number of classrooms is increased annually, we support this activity under the National Program.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, more efforts must be made, even to increase investment in this regard. As far as personal end devices are concerned, the fact is that we have not currently stimulated schools to purchase such personal end devices, but if we look at the last 5 years, we can see how much has expanded the number of personal end devices that can be used for learning What we can say today is that the number of network devices even exceeds the number of people not only in Bulgaria, but also worldwide, already more than 2.5 times the number of people. We continue to stimulate schools and support them financially to update information and communication technologies. That's the most common thing I can think of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the question I have asked you has very important aspects. You theoretically tracked the path of e-learning and its development in the world, but let's be correct and get down to the country's territory. These problems on the territory of the country are not a solution in the two most fundamental aspects. The first aspect is the actual access of the Bulgarian students, especially, I repeat, in the most fragile, the initial course of training to these, as you call them, still initial electronic forms of education, which creates extremely humiliating circumstances for the faculty staff, for the directors of these schools, who are concerned about the training of their children. The second question is even more serious. You said at the end of your speech that the number of smartphones and tablets on a global scale and on a Bulgarian scale exceeds the number of the population, but you do realize that this is one of the main dangers for our children and that it is the presence of My wish is to see your vision as a minister in this regard. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u139	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u140	Today schools are changing not so much thanks to the Ministry of Education and Science and regional governments, but are changing thanks to their initiatives and their innovations. What we can see in a number of schools are successful investments............................in mathematics and natural science study offices,........in information technology. We have 280 schools with approved innovation projects, but these are not all innovations in the system. Schools should be stimulated precisely in developing this culture of innovation, building a complete e-learning, but they should not be subject to a single recipe. We must make a common infrastructure and they must choose the specific solutions. We need to ensure access to electronic content. This will largely be the equivalent of an electronic textbook. The e-read version of the textbook is not an electronic textbook. The electronic textbook is something else. This is the textbook with additional educational resources. If we have this infrastructure, we will be able to limit the electronic platforms that they use in each school only in useful educational content, that is, only to what is in the cloud, and not promiscuous use. This is, of course, not just a matter of limitation, but the development of digital educational culture and what we in general call digital media literacy. It does not only concern digital skills, it does not only concern the ability to recognize what is true and what is not, in today's information environment, but it covers a much wider list of knowledge and skills of the children we need to develop. We have staked in our program digital media literacy. We updated within the European Union the recommendation for key competences during the Bulgarian Presidency in May, with digital media literacy being affected more seriously. The key competences are what we have consensus about. We know that we need to train the children who will be in the labour market in the middle of this century, which he will have changed greatly, the world will have changed, the professions and the labour market. So there is no doubt in what you say we need to develop digital media literacy and digital education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question to Minister Valchev. He is one of the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova and Donka Simeonova about the need for pedagogical advisors, psychologists, resource teachers and logos of preschool and school education in small settlements. You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In the framework of the meetings that we hold on presentation of a Vision for Bulgaria and especially in small settlements, we are strongly asked the question of the need to provide psychologists, resource teachers and logopeds in these remote parts of Bulgaria. Parents are forced to seek external help in large district cities, and under the School and Preschool Education Act such resource teachers, logos and psychologists need to be provided in each school, in each kindergarten. I will mention only one case of a father from the village of Davidkovo, Smolyan, who with great pain mentioned that every Saturday he needed to travel 90 km to Plovdiv to provide his child with the necessary logoped. Such a problem was shared at meetings in Pazardzhik district. Dear Minister, at the heart of the philosophy of the Law on school and pre-school education, the settlement of public relations related to the provision of inclusive education is laid down. According to the requirements of the Law, every director of kindergarten or school in the country is obliged to provide specialists to ensure support for the personal development of children and students. The role of pedagogical advisors, psychologists, resource teachers and logos is key to recognizing support needs, caring for the psychological well-being of children and students, dealing with aggression and harassment, cooperation with the family. If such support is not provided, dropping the child from the relevant class may result in violating his rights to equal access to education. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, Minister, what measures does the Ministry of Education and Science take to ensure the necessary specialists, resource teachers and logopeds in small settlements where it is clear that they are largely missing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, your question can be put in two contexts. One is at all the issue of securing the system with pedagogical specialists, such as the cited resource teachers, psychologists, educators, on the one hand, as well as providing access to inclusive education in all schools, kindergartens, including in the smallest and remote settlements. The fact is that the Preschool and School Education Act regulated the philosophy and organization of activities in support of inclusive education and support for children. This was written in the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. During the 2017 academic year, additional support for personal development was provided by a total of 4059 pedagogical specialists, including resource teachers, psychologists, logos, auditory rehabilitators, teachers of children with impaired vision. Of these, 892 specialists worked in kindergartens and 2247 in schools and 920 in regional support centres. In comparison, it can be noted that in the 2016 academic year, this number was 3728, i.e. 331 specialists more. Last year, with the budget for this year, we planned additional funds for psychologists and pedagogical advisors of 7 million. BGN, which were distributed among all schools and kindergartens. In the current discussions and proposed to the National Assembly a draft budget for 2019 is set at an additional 6 million. lv. It was also an obligation for at least one psychologist or pedagogical advisor to have in schools with over 400 students. This limit will be reduced to over 300 students. This does not mean that others do not provide support, but they either have to provide it within the available means or provide external support. Specifically for the village of Davidkovo, really with Davidkovo is an exclusive case because it is an example of one of the smallest and remote municipalities and educational institutions. When there is a shortage of such specialists to provide support, this can be done either in cooperation with other schools and kindergartens. I know that in the municipality of Davidkovo this is limited as an opportunity or in an agreement with a neighbouring municipality, such as the Law on pre-school and school education or by the regional centre for inclusive education. Specially with regard to Smolyan, the Regional Center for Inclusive Education works well. I undertake to check the case with the village of Davidkovo, but my information is that resource teachers are provided. Logologists, pedagogical advisors and psychologists should be provided for all schools. 1603 psychologists and pedagogical advisors were appointed to 4181 schools and kindergartens as at the beginning of 2018. The fact is, we have a shortage of such specialists. We have a general shortage of pedagogical specialists in the system, but such a shortage of resource teachers. In this regard, measures are taken in the higher education system to extend the acceptance and funding of these professional directions, which end with pedagogical competence. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you'll allow me to finish. We also foresee a national programme that will affect precisely the most problematic disciplines and types of pedagogical specialists to ensure the acquisition of pedagogical competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Simeonova, the line is yours, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Undoubtedly one of the advantages of the Preschool and School Education Act is precisely inclusive education and that it is an integral part of the right to education and that conditions are provided for each child or student to receive education according to their individual needs. The application of the Law and the Ordinance require the directors of each kindergarten and schools to provide the necessary conditions for inclusive education. This question is asked by sharing the pain and anxiety of parents, kindergarten directors and schools from small towns. Since the time is very limited, I will not comment on the reasons I would like to pass on the proposals that they have made to us and which they believe will create better conditions for inclusive education in the given settlements. First of all, I think it is quite real to implement the proposal to be provided with enough textbooks, aids and didactic materials children with specific educational needs. A cabinet with the necessary specialists, which both parents and colleagues can use in the community center, where such small settlements are concentrated, and not such a centre, which should be done with the assistance of the Ministry of Education and Municipal Management, is the other proposal. You say that the provision of funds is to invest not only for the qualification of general education teachers at certain hours, but rather to invest in the requalification of a teacher from the respective locality who could perform these functions. Of course, stimulating young people to prefer these professions. The last thing we say enough times is about funds - regulating the funding of these specialists, regardless of the number of students in a school and kindergarten, to be provided financially so that the activities of inclusive education can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u148	Dear Mrs. Simeonova, thank you for your suggestions. There really is a need for qualification and requalification. In our instruments of qualification that we have, it is laid down, and the requalification will be exactly one of the modules of this national programme that I started talking to you about. It will finance the training of people who have completed higher education in a particular professional direction, but have not acquired pedagogical competence. Secondly, people who have acquired pedagogical competence but have not entered the education system, or have long left it, to be able to refresh their knowledge. Thirdly, teachers in different disciplines that can be included in teaching other disciplines or in resource support, as you mentioned. So this proposal is correct. It comes to mind now that maybe we should do a thorough mapping of the support that is provided because I fully admit, as you said, that in some territories of the country there are holes. In terms of funding. We are currently financing speech aid and psychological support through the common formula. Yes, it depends on the number of students. There is also a component that does not depend on the number of students, but the fact is that sometimes it is difficult for each individual child to provide a complete team. These specialists should benefit from more schools, from more kindergartens, so that there is also this justification for spending. It's very difficult for a child to provide a team. Logopedic assistance is also distributed through resources for resource assistance through these funds. There are targeted funds that depend on the number of students, but we still cannot provide a resource teacher for every child. This is why regional centres were maintained to provide support when there is no group of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova regarding problems in organizing and conducting school trips. Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u150	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I have been informed that there is a practice for teachers to negotiate their student tours with tour operators, with these amounts being paid by hand without a document from the relevant tour operator. I thought at first that these were isolated cases, but companies say that this is not at all, even teachers, schools perceive it as a normal obligation of the company and not as a violation. If this is normal practice, not to work with civil contracts, or if it is working with civil contracts, how many of the teachers have declared income from additional fees for tours carried out under the Law on personal income? In this case, we ask ourselves: In these cases, who is charged with the company, at the expense of the school, or in almost all cases are on the expense of the tour operators? How are these funds accounted for, with what documents as income, as expenditure? Unfortunately, tour operators who do not show the best quality service are always preferred, but who agree to pay by hand what is called under the table, and not those who offer such fees without documents, or the so-called unregulated remuneration. I want to tell you that, according to unofficial data, the rate is between BGN 5 and BGN 10. to a student. This information, again after research, said it was sent to both the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Tourism. Our question to you is: have you been informed of this wicked practice? If so, have the relevant competent authorities been consulted and what measures will you take to end such phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u151	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Klisarova, you said: Unfortunately, unofficial information cannot be reacted, although if there is a signal value, we have done so too. I call on all those tour operators who gave you the information to give us an official signal. At the moment at the Ministry we have one signal for Plovdiv. We checked him out, and the information turned out to be false. I assume that much of what you're saying is true. As to whether it is right or wrong, it is not right. The teacher must be posted from the school. It should not receive any additional remuneration, as this is usually part of its additional feature. If it receives income, it must be regulated and declared. What can we do? The only thing I can think of is forcing schools to conduct some kind of competitive procedure so it doesn't happen. Of course, this will not guarantee, but the fact that the activities are generally below threshold values in the Public Procurement Act, which regulates a competitive procedure, is the only thing that can be done, in my opinion. The other is to respond to each signal with control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. Replica Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u154	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I know about this signal from Plovdiv and it is good that you have done a check, and I also know that the Ministry of Tourism has been informed. Maybe that's where we should ask. I agree with the fact that it is very difficult to solve a problem, because how school to do a procedure, when money is not really his, parents give, or there has to be some regulation. I know about Regulation No 10 which was issued. It is a good practice only five working days, and only on Saturdays and Sundays can such excursions and green schools be performed, but this still does not solve the problem of money under the table. I think that the responsibility of teachers on such a trip, the difficulties that teachers themselves have, and this responsibility that they assume should be paid and should not be paid under the table. Therefore, a strict regulation should be made on how to organize these excursions and grant teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u155	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. Procedure.................................................... The way you're running things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u156	No. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! My procedure was provoked and provoked by the presence of Mrs. Avramova here I was just waiting for her to come. On October 10th with colleagues Lyubomir Bonev, Madam Chairman, colleagues Bonev and Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u157	Colleague Genov, if possible, let's get this over with. There is one more question to the Minister, and then you will do your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u158	Excuse me, Madam President, I have an appointment, so I'm taking the floor now. On October 10 we ask a question with colleagues Lyubomir Bonev and Georgi Yordanov. It is written very simply, specifically: are there analyses, reports and other such documents that assess the state of the Republican road network, facilities to them, tunnels, bridges and so on? What's this about? Mrs. Avramova, or one of your team has carelessly done his job and misled you, because in the written reply, we have requested a written answer, he tells us the entire investment program of the Agency, along with the money given for the design, and so on, or the other option is that something is hiding from us, as we want reports, analyses, assessments of the state of this road infrastructure. We will ask the question again and, Mrs Avramova, we expect with the assistance of the President of the National Assembly to receive a correct answer to our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mrs. Avramova will have the opportunity to answer. We continue with the last question to the Minister of Education. Question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova about regulated admission of students in I class. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u160	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Minister, I do not need to motivate and explain my very extensive question, simply because you know, and it is not a public secret that there are serious problems with the admission of children in the I class, I am talking about large cities, and a certain number of schools, which have led in recent years to the deployment of certain places of automated electronic reception systems both in kindergartens, individual schools have introduced such and some municipalities have introduced centralised ones. Since this concerns many parents and in order not to delay it in April, when there is hysteria with admission in the first grade, again I say, in the big cities, my question to you is: what measures and concrete steps does the Ministry take towards building a single national information system for admission of students in the first grade; do you think this needs to happen; what are the specific actions of the Ministry in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u161	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u162	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Anastasova! The fact is that over the years there has been a development in the admission system for students in I class. For many years, the criteria were at school level. You know, there were tails, parents lined up, there was a principle criterion first signed up, first accepted or other criteria. For the first time, we introduced a single criterion, as is the principle of proximity, from the point of view of the children's convenience, providing privileged access to the nearest school, from the point of view of moving time, even safety. This also provokes the need to build uniform systems. The fact is that we have schools in whose areas of scope there are more children to be enrolled than there are places in the school and vice versa, on the other hand, there are parents who are more comfortable with enrolling their child not in the nearest school, but in some other school, whether for work or for other reason. The construction of a single information system for each municipality allows to grade the wishes first, second, third and so on desires. Access is local. My opinion is that these systems should be municipal, there is no need for a national information system. Older students can live and study in another locality, students too, but young students usually go where their parents live. In this connection, large cities have built municipal information systems. Where the school is one, we are not talking about proximity and there is no need for such an information system. Such municipal information systems are available in Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas. They showed that over 90%, even in Varna or Burgas, more than 95% of the students were accepted at first request. The problem for me is only in Sofia. This does not mean that the reception cannot be realized, but in Sofia it would be much better if we had such a municipal system. Here are the most educational institutions, parents accordingly choose between the largest number of schools. We have such a system for kindergartens, but we don't have one for schools. We established that last year as a problem and a task. I have entrusted the Regional Management of Education Sofia City, together with Sofia Municipality to develop such a program and such a system. Its development is underway, but it requires technological time. I cannot commit myself to whether it will be ready by the next campaign. Individual schools have their information systems, but this does not allow students to qualify according to desires. If they don't get into one school, they go to another school, they may have lost the opportunity to enroll in the other school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Anastasova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u164	Mr. Minister, I am generally satisfied with the answer, but I am a little worried because you say I have entrusted ROU Sofia city, the development of such a system. I'm worried from the point of view of this. I've asked you a question before about the production of regional education management. In time, and as of January 1st next year, salaries in these structures will fall very seriously behind the teachers' salaries, and they, in a manner of speaking, bled out. I don't know what human and professional potential they have to deal with. This is a serious task. As convinced as I am of the opportunities of the experts, especially in RIO Sofia, it seems to me that at least they should be assisted by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Science. We are not talking about 1000 BGN. as a value of the order to develop such a system. I suppose procedures under the Public Procurement Act will also have to be carried out. I think that in this sense, the Ministry of Education and Science may look a little bit, not to say compassionately, but a little more responsible to the duties and regional governments, as they, apart from this task that piles on their head, have enough other tasks. I think the City of Sofia has enough resources. They have a functioning, as you said, a system for hosting children in kindergartens and could make a little more effort to help and make one for admission in the first grade. I hope you are convinced of the possibilities of lawyers in the Ministry of Education and Science. So it seems to me somehow to transfer responsibilities to regional governance, whoever it was, even more so that there are regional governments where there are such electronic systems operating, I don't want to think about it, but maybe you're assigning this task so that the guilty person can then be another, in the sense, if there are any irregularities, and then there are always disputes at the reception, and there are always scandals. In a word, my request is to take a closer look and help if you have really decided to assign this activity to the Regional Education Management in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u165	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u166	Dear Mrs. Anastasova, thank you for your comments, because there is a need for supplementary questions. I have entrusted this to the Regional Management of Education Sofia City because I cannot assign to Sofia Municipality, one of them is subordinate to me, the others are not subordinate to me. They will be definitely helped, in fact we have already done so. The third reason is because they have this territorial competence, which also has Sofia Municipality. This is not about a system for which it is national, but specifically about Sofia Municipality. I absolutely agree with your comments on securing, motivating employees in regional education departments. I dare not say that we have always been responsible for them. The fact is that now the increase in teachers' salaries makes it difficult for us to keep employees in regional governments who are pedagogical specialists in general. So this year, with the budget, what we had as an increase in staff funds, we have focused it entirely solely on regional education managements. Yes, the rate of increase in teachers' salaries is high, there is currently catching up, but from next year, in any case, with the new 20% increase, we will have a lag in employees' salaries in regional governments compared to average teachers' salaries. This is why next year, with the budget, we provide for the priority increase of staff remuneration funds to be directed to regional governments to a greater extent than to the other units to me as a senior authorising officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Valchev for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The question is from the MP Dora Yankova about the government's policy on construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and management of Republican roads III class. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen ministers, Minister Avramova! My question is about government policy on construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and management of Republican third-class roads. Why am I putting it like this? All of us, as MPs, and you, as Minister and Government, know that these are some of the important roads for the links between municipalities. Bulgarian citizens pass and use this third-class road network and it is large. Of the total amount of state roads, which is 19 861 km, the third-class roads are 12 171 km or this is more than half, 61% are these state roads. If we observe over the years how to invest in them, that is little money. Each minister before you and Minister Nankov and Minister Pavlova, from the cabinet team of Prime Minister Borisov, have always said about 600 million are necessary, not enough. It was expected that the system was constantly to be prepared for next year. Always for this third-class network goes a small financial resource. The holes are patched, cosmetic maintenance is made and this makes them increasingly compromised, that is, the chronic funds are not enough. This right here is a policy for the state of the Republican roads. For this reason right now is the time at the beginning of your commitment as a minister in the preparation of the budget, and I ask you to inform me what the Ministry in charge of you is doing, and what do you foresee to improve the situation with the third-class road network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u169	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yankova! The main priority of the government is the effective maintenance, modernisation and development of transport infrastructure, attracting more investment, as well as enhancing, above all, the safety of the transport sector. By order of 29 August 2018, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works carried out an inventory of the Republican Road Network, including motorways, first-class, second-class and third-class roads. The aim of the event is to mark the most critical road safety routes and to take timely measures to improve their condition. The criteria for inventory are: analysis of the state of the road infrastructure, repair activities, last performed repair, traffic intensity, concentration of road accidents, measures to improve the operational state. At present, the inventory of the Republican road network in all 27 areas has been made and systematized. The data shows that from 11 530 km of third-class roads in the country, 930 km are in excellent condition, 2,700 km are in good condition, 2,260 km In other words, about 8,000 km from the third-class road network need repair, reconstruction to meet the requirements for quality, comfortable and safe movement. An inventory has been made in the report and priority is given for the areas of roads and an estimate of the necessary resources has been made. The total length of the units proposed for repair in 2019 is 1214 km and the estimated value of 930 million. $595,000 with VAT. The majority of these proposed sections are actually third-class roads. The sites fall into different categories of repairs, cover various Agency programmes. Until the system is introduced, which we expect higher revenues, which we can put into the quality of the roads in Bulgaria, the Road Infrastructure Agency is relying on the funds set out in the budget as well as on the state budget. These numbers, which I have quoted, only confirm the position of the Ministry, which has been repeatedly declared to the public to the MPs, namely that the lack of sufficient financial resources, and not only in recent years, but for many years, is the main reason that led to these unsatisfactory findings. The facts presented illustrate the steps taken by the Ministry and the Agency towards introducing a new financing model through the opening of negotiations. It is planned to rehabilitate and reconstruct Republican roads II and III classes in the territory of 23 regional road managements. The road sections, which the Road Infrastructure Agency has proposed to the managing authority, are 24 and have been selected by evaluation between 45 road sections, proposed by all regional road governments on the territory of the country. Currently there are contracts for grants for 25 road projects, within the financial resources of the axis, 239 km of them are third grade and 224 are second grade. The government's priority is the construction and maintenance of modern and safe infrastructure of the country. A few things have been done in the last 10 years. I will give a brief factology for 2018: the sites of the 3rd class, filled with state budget funds, are 9 third-class road sections, to a total of 20 million. 975 thousand. 89 leva.; with the funds under Operational Programme "Regions" 399 thousand. BGN 897.; sites that are in the process of implementation shape III, with funds from the state budget are 36 sites worth 222 million. 180,000. BGN 129.; with the funds under the Operational Programme "Regions" in the " 2014" "2018" are 8 sections, worth 126 million. 272 thousand. BGN 325. Upcoming projects - III class, under the Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" "Bulgaria 2014 " 2020" - open procedures worth 10 million will be announced. 361 thousand. BGN 134.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u172	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, yes, that's the picture. Perhaps we should trust the opinion of the Road Infrastructure Agency..... about 3,000 kilometers are in poor condition. In the next 2019, no funds will be available for the third-class road infrastructure, but also as a whole. According to the forecast numbers that you shared, about 265.. 266 million will have to pay for the performer and institutionalize the administration. My concern is that this year the few funds that are available under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria 2014 - 2020 which are started and are from the budget. But what's the budget? My question is on the financial side: how much finance do you expect for next year for the third-class road network? We're shutting down the toll system. Your capital programme, according to estimates from the budget we discussed, is about 330 million. There are two billion that the government has signed as capital. God willing, give it to the third grader! If you have the strength to fight back, I will admire you. My first question is: will there be more financial resources and in what size will it be for third-class roads? My second question: in relation to the maintenance of the third-class road infrastructure by road support companies, do you have any information on how many of them are marked, whether they are guarded and how many of them meet the conditions for clean ditches to be in at least a decent state to pass through them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova! Yeah, the sector's underfunded. As you very rightly pointed out, in 2019, with the introduction of tol the system was not set as revenue the entire value that we normally expect to receive by introducing tols. You know that in 2019 as a fixed date for introduction of tol fees is 16 August. This means that half a year the wine system will be in operation. The state budget contains revenues for the six months of 2019, in which we will have tolls and that will be more money that we will be able to use. In the prioritization of the sites of the Road Infrastructure Agency, those envisaged as priority for 2019, most of them are third-class roads. Since you are from Smolyan region, I will tell you the two ways in Smolyan, which are priority and are third-class. One is Stoyanovo, Ardino, worth 10 million. 200,000. lv. The other is Rudozem, Smolyan, about 22 km, worth just over 14 million. lv. Colleagues from the Agency of Road Infrastructure have tried in every field to prioritize these sections and together to seek funds from both the state budget and the Agency's funds to succeed in implementing this plan for 2019 so that we can rehabilitate the entire road network in a few years. On the other question you asked, the other day I had a meeting with regional road stations. There's a road marking going on right now. We have prioritized and first marked first-class and second-class roads. By the end of the month, the marking, cutting of vegetation and bushes will continue, as well as cleaning along the road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u176	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Madam Minister, we are talking about third-class roads and I understand your desire as a new minister to do something, but there is no money in all the official government documents set for next year. We, as opposition, will make a proposal. In the alternative budget we have wagered about 400 million more for municipal and third-class road infrastructure. I hope that between first and second reading, the Minister of Finance and the entire government, well that here is also the Minister of Transport, you need to see this problem. A long time with the mantra, the toll system, you see, a billion and two hundred will come. He'll be here, but he'll be here in two years. In the year to come, this money will only be for institutionalization. After all, the people who are currently using the most third-class system is not in dispute first and second, and the highways there are a sufficient amount of financial resources. I address you and the two ministers: be more active in the Council of Ministers to take more financial resources from capital for the third-class road network. Madam Minister, it is good that now before winter you have raised the question, but as you go around the country from Satovcha, Dospat, Borino, Devin, Smolyan to Madan, Chepelare, Zlatograd has little marking and going to Strazhitsa, Isperih and Alfattar, too. The mayor of Strazhitsa said that there are 100 km of third-class road network, no penny received, and there are road support companies. During the evening pass and mist, the centre line is lifesaving. We talk a lot about all these accidents. I appeal to you, first of all, to the Minister of Regional Development and to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the President of the National Assembly, we will be in an active debate between the first and second reading of the state budget for next year, we need funds to be used effectively because the third-class road network is 12 thousand kilometers, and it is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u177	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. The next question is again from Mrs. Dora Yankova on the readiness of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the companies operating on the winter support of the Republican road network for the upcoming winter season. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u178	It just so happens that by putting off the questions one after the other, maybe it's okay. We are already in the realities of the winter period. It is November. It is from the platform of the National Assembly the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to inform the Bulgarian citizens about the readiness of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the companies that perform the winter support of the Republican Road Network for the upcoming winter season. Visible, there's still a lot of downfalls. We read from the media that the regional meetings with the regional executives are going to be discussed in the interinstitutional debate on this problem. In order for Bulgarian citizens to be calm that the government has taken over and conducted all the events that need the winter season to be secured, road infrastructure to be guaranteed so that they can pass well and be calm. Please, Madam Minister, from the platform of parliament to inform me and Bulgarian citizens what is the readiness to support the Republican road network during the upcoming winter period? Do you have enough money and are there any problems that could arise from an organizational nature in relation to the winter period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, maintaining the Republican roads in good operational condition, providing safe movement and transport connectivity, is the main activity of the Road Infrastructure Agency. In connection with the provision of all necessary conditions to deal with the winter weather conditions of the Agency, the following actions have been taken: an action plan has been drawn up for the activities of the Agency on the provision of the winter maintenance of the Republican Road Network in the season 2018 Depending on the situation, restrictions on the movement of different categories of motor vehicles or a complete traffic ban may be introduced for a certain period of time in separate sections or directions. Decisions shall be taken by the Director of the Regional Road Management, in agreement with the Chair of the Interdepartmental Headquarters. The aim is to ensure maximum operationality and to take temporary and adequate action in relation to the possible specific crisis situation. The risk sections on the roads of the Republican Road Network, the places for stopping heavy goods vehicles and spare traffic routes are defined and updated as necessary. All of this is reflected in the regional road management plans for winter maintenance. The same were provided for information and implementation of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. The plans have been endorsed by the Central Administration of the Road Infrastructure Agency (API). Support companies are required to reflect in the operational plans for winter maintenance additional machines for critical sections. This will be done with the redistribution of machinery intended for the area concerned. In addition, through regional structures of the Executive Agency, the control of road vehicles and their ability to move in winter conditions will be increased by additional controls. It is exquisite for district road management and road support companies to base specialized equipment on drivers and cranes, with the possibility of downloading heavy goods vehicles. During the preparation of the Republican routes of operation under winter conditions, a horizontal marking of the main road network is placed on the main road line. The funds provided for winter maintenance are provided by the Agency's budget for 2019 and amount to around 60 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are 27 contracts signed. I will continue my response to another...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u181	No, if you want, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u182	What I would like to add is that there are 27 maintenance contracts signed on a pre-emptive basis, on a winter basis, and 7 highway maintenance contracts, with 15 contracts with a duration of up to the end of 2018. API launched a procurement procedure with the same subject-matter for a period of five years in the period of May and June this year. Due to an appeal against the procedure, we do not have any new contracts. Those that expire during the winter maintenance period 2018 and 2019 have already prepared anexes. At the date of expiry of the contract, they will be concluded with the companies so that we can provide contractors for winter maintenance and do not affect in any way the appeal of the quality procedure of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u184	Madam President of the National Assembly, Dear Minister, Mr Minister of Transport! Looks like the organizational measures you took. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things. We already have minus night temperatures. Most of the roadblocks are ice-colded. We don't have a field reaction, and that's extremely dangerous. There's a downfall on the roads. Long, procedurally, interinstitutional answers your employees down, when this could happen, and you know that in winter conditions working and restoring a failure on a state road is very difficult. Maybe another week or two of good weather coming up, according to meteorologists. Put pressure on them! There is a way. This is about people's lives! Every week, I take the Chepelare route, asenovgrad. After Chepelare, there is one downfall, which is why if he stays in winter period, we will close the road itself. I talked to the traffic department. Every week they say, "We're ready. We're ready, but it's November! In parallel, you said it would be marked. Mark the spots where it's foggy, especially in the saddles! This is extremely important for safety. There is a way to put more boards in the heavier mountain areas. I'm saying all this, I know that administratively, ritually at these meetings, everything has been taken as measures, but force the administration to work more flexiblely, to be business, not to be stuffed, to report everything to you! You do not need to be the main meteorologist, as had previous ministers "Railway infrastructure" to make the information system more flexible. I'll tell you a case. Two weeks ago, I called the phone call of the Road Infrastructure Agency in the event of an accident, when will there be a possibility to cross the highway? Unculturally, lazily, the watchman says, "No one is able to tell you! Is that how no one is able to say when there should be one on duty who can share: in half an hour, after an hour, work, or be more difficult. It's a civil servant! So push the administration, you are a new minister, there is a way for the winter to pass more calmly and for Bulgarian citizens to be calm. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u185	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova! Yes, everyone has to work in a tense state, to meet in two weeks according to weather scientists prepared winter in Bulgaria. On 6 November 2018, I held a meeting at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with all directors of regional road managements in the presence of the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency, to which all reported on the readiness of the companies to carry out winter maintenance and snow cleaning, their readiness with inert materials: technical salt, chemical substances, as well as the areas in which there are snowflakes, the facilities to be installed. All directors of regional road management were told and emphasized their responsibility in the implementation of these activities. I expect all who are employed in the organisation and in carrying out these activities to approach with the necessary responsibility. There are also people with very extensive experience, which I am counting on to help this winter to cope successfully. Thanks for the signal on the phone at the Road Infrastructure Agency. I will do whatever it takes to have adequate answers in any situation, especially during the winter season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. The third question is from Nikolay Tishev on the rehabilitation of the road between Banevo district and the village of Izvorishte, Burgas municipality. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u188	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! In 2008 was approved a project under the European Regional Development Programme for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the road district of Banya village of Izvorishte. The start of the project is 16 September 2008 and its end is 16 September 2010, that is, 24 months or two years. The value of the project is close to 4 million. 665 thousand. BGN financed by the European Regional Development Fund and co-financing from the national budget of nearly 700 thousand. lv. As of September 16, 2010, some three kilometers remained incomplete. From 2010 to 2015 the road section has been frozen. In 2015 and 2016 two sections of 400 m each have been repaired. The need for completion of the renovation is based on the fact that the road Banya is a villa zone, and the village of Izvorishte will be a connecting section between Trakia Motorway and Sunny Beach Resort complex. In the light of the above, my questions to you are as follows: firstly, what funds are provided for in the budget 2019 of the Republic of Bulgaria to finance the rehabilitation of the said road? Secondly, will you assist as a minister in 2019 from the state budget to transfer a million-million and two hundred thousand leva targeted transfer of the Municipality of Burgas to complete the renovation and thus the whole, which lasted more than 10 years, saga to end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tishev, with regard to the question so asked, I inform you that the section you mentioned, whose renovation has started 2008 is not part of the Republican road network and is not within the competence of the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency to finance its rehabilitation. For this reason, according to your question, what funds are provided for in the budget, there is no provision in the Agency's budget for road infrastructure and there is no provision for its rehabilitation. I support the implementation of this project, as well as bringing all roads in the country into line with normal operating conditions ensuring the safety of people, but I cannot make a concrete commitment to translate from the state budget a target transfer to the Municipality of Burgas to complete the repairs, as this is not within the authority of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u192	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I know that the road is not from the Republican road network and therefore I am not accidentally asking the question: in what way can the Ministry or the government help the Municipality of Burgas to finish the renovation? We have many cases, not only in 2018, but also in previous years, when targeted, for infrastructure projects of municipalities, have been transferred funds from the state budget by decree of the Council of Ministers, and therefore my question is for next year, because for this time there is no more time. What can you do as a minister or help directly? I would not have put this issue if the repair of this road had not been started with euro funds, which at that time had been sufficient (2008). " 2010"), or, if this was some kind of cross-country road and not a section of a link between the highway "Trakiya" and the largest resort complex in Bulgaria. In the line I am currently using, I expect some goodwill or desire to resolve this problem next year. I think you should be the one who should be addressing the issue, as you are a regional minister. In the Republican budget there are capital transfers provided for each municipality, precisely to support similar roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tishev, to the state budget for specific sites at the government's discretion funds are being allocated. For these funds should apply the mayor of Burgas Municipality. Your question should perhaps be directed to the Minister of Finance. This is not within the authority of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, but I support all the funds given to municipalities to repair municipal roads. Thank you. Madam President, may I have your permission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u195	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u196	In relation to the procedure Mr. Genov made, I am ready if something has not been clear in the answer to Mr. Genov's question and when asking an additional question from him, to be as comprehensive as possible, and to be as comprehensive as possible in the answer to it. I didn't understand exactly what wasn't properly structured in the answer and what was missing, but next question I'm ready to give Mr. Genov the necessary answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. I will inform the MP Manol Genov and we will answer his question to you. We should thank Minister Petya Avramova for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going through with questions to Minister Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Yachev Gokov about late salaries in the state enterprise. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Ministers, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, my question is about late wages, and it is about a state enterprise whose principal you are as Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A group of citizens arrived at my reception as a representative of the National Assembly. That's 27. Selective region of Stara Zagora. They presented themselves as people working in a state-owned company, "Transport construction and recovery" (TSB), claiming that their salaries were slowing down. By the way, these people wanted to stay anonymous because they were afraid for their workplace, although I don't understand how you can not get paid for a long time and be afraid for your job. They claim that although the enterprise has many years of traditions and extensive experience in transport construction in Bulgaria, inherited by the Transport Forces to which the enterprise is a beneficiary, there has been a tangible decrease in wages in the last 4 years, and for the current 2018 the situation is as follows: in October they have transferred the last 40% of the salary for March and for April and after that they have not received even a percentage of the salary earned. In this regard, Mr Minister, are the questions asked to you by me: firstly, what is the financial situation of the State enterprise You, as his principal, should be aware of the financial situation. Secondly, I would like you to answer the question: is it true that the company has not paid salaries since April 2018? Do you consider this normal in the 21st century in a state-owned enterprise to talk about delays and non-payments of wages for more than six months? And provided that this corresponds to the truth, you, as the principal of this enterprise, what measures will you take to make it possible for people to get their salaries, and in what time horizon can this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For a response.. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, at the beginning of my response I would like to express a complete sharing and agreement with your concern about the problem. Indeed, I believe that when people are doing statutory work, they are entitled to an adequate statutory payment, all the more so when this is regulated under the Labour Code. In this regard, let me briefly tell you the answers to your specific questions. First, with regard to the financial situation of the State-owned company "Transport construction and recovery" whose main object is construction, repair and maintenance of the transport infrastructure and, in particular, the railway infrastructure of the country. In the performance of its core activity, the undertaking operates entirely on a market basis and finances its activities from its own revenue, depending on the railway construction market, the availability of construction sites and the implemented volume of construction works forms a corresponding financial result. For the nine months of 2018, the company reported a total revenue from its core business of 12 million. 746 thousand. BGN, which, compared to those reported in the comparable period of 2017, decreased by 889 thousand. BGN, or 6.5%. Total revenue is generated by net sales revenue related to a full volume of construction and construction works. The reduction of revenues recorded during the period compared to those reported in 2017 is due to a decrease in the implemented volumes of construction works, as the state-owned undertaking, I repeat, operates in the context of increased competition in the construction sector and the lack of specific realization sites. For the reported period, the State-owned company 546 thousand. BGN, which is a reduction compared to those reported in the comparable period of 2017 by 2 million. 471 thousand. BGN, or 13%. The financial result reported for the nine months constitutes a loss of 3 million. $800,000. BGN, which is reduced compared to the one reported in the comparable period of 2017 by 1 million. 582,000. lv. The financial result has been influenced by the negative factors mentioned above. In addition to the main subject of business, the enterprise is entrusted with tasks which are, by their nature, public tasks for maintaining readiness and carrying out activities and tasks under the state wartime plan, maintaining and preparing to carry out tasks under national and regional plans for carrying out rescue and emergency recovery work, carrying out territorial defence tasks of the country. For the implementation of these activities, the State-owned company stores equipment and property, public property, in six warehouses, one of which is located in the territory of your constituency. The activity of the undertaking for the performance of public tasks, by its nature, should be financed by funds from the Republican budget and order set by a law which has not yet been recorded in the statutory law of the TSB and the WC (Communication of Construction and Reconstruction). At present, the State-owned enterprise continues to carry out the tasks entrusted to it by law. For nearly five years the costs of maintenance of the public activity shall be paid at the expense of the revenues generated by the main activity of the undertaking and to date shall not be reimbursed. This creates relevant difficulties reflecting the financial situation of the company, including the possibility of payment of old tax liabilities, renewal and modernisation of assets. According to the enterprise's data, the absence in 2018 of volumes of construction works carried out by the State enterprise creates an additional difficulty in providing support for the tasks performed and the corresponding payment of remuneration to workers related not only to the performance of the public activity but also to workers and employees engaged in the main activity of the undertaking. For the period January-September 2018, public service costs of 1 million have been incurred. BGN, without receiving funding from the state budget. However, in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code, a part or full amount of remuneration shall be paid to those employed in the public activity of the undertaking on a monthly basis. From April 2018 until the time of public service workers, wages were paid in total of BGN 341 074 equal to BGN 5,4 monthly salaries of the six totals, i.e. there is no month without the company's public service employees not to have received a full or partial payment of the wages due to them. The State-owned enterprise provided the following information which I offer to your attention: production areas in the departments of the State-owned enterprise lv.; administration of the units of the TTV and hotels........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN, Administration of the General Management of the State Enterprise TSW - 40% of the remuneration for the months of May, June and July and 100% of the remuneration for August in total of 210 thousand. BGN, on public service employees.. 60% of the salaries for April and 100% of the remuneration for the months of May, June, July and August in total of 305 thousand. lv. Total wages payable in the enterprise amount to 1 million. 63,000. lv. By the end of the year, the State-owned undertaking plans to pay 60% of the remuneration for the months of May, June, and for the other workers and employees, the rates up to two full wages from the current ones. Various options have been discussed to overcome the problem of the public tasks performed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u201	Mr. Minister, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u202	Thank you. If you have any further questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Minister, I, first of all, would like to express satisfaction and it is good that you share my belief that it is unacceptable for you to work and not receive your wages. Secondly, from the statement of the reply, I understood that the company was carrying out state tasks. If he performs these state tasks in any way, let us grant this undertaking, even if necessary, through legislative changes. Let's make sure he gets paid for doing government tasks, but get people's salaries. You are a new Minister of Transport, you have recently been busy and you have many businesses like this on the head, including railway transport, but let's change it to this management team that runs the enterprise if it doesn't do well. I am by no means a supporter, and Mr. Minister of Economy is not a supporter of the fact that the state is a bad employee is a bad management team that manages the enterprise when it fails to cope with the tasks that have been assigned to it. Let's change this management team. I declare that I do not know people at all, I am not familiar with their quality characteristics, but if they do not deal with this enterprise, let us replace them. I will tell you that I cannot approve this thing because it is in direct violation of Bulgarian legislation. You've been quoting some... I will then carefully look at the transcript of what you have answered, because in such a short time I cannot assimilate to where the salaries of the different categories of employees have been paid in the enterprise, but I have heard a mention of July-August this year. But it's November! And this is a direct violation of the Labour Code. Even with the employer's financial difficulties, the Labour Code ensures that the worker receives a minimum of 60% of the gross wage, but not less than the minimum wage for the country. Of course, the condition is that he continues to perform his work duties in good faith, as I believe those who work there do. However, the practice shows that this wage guarantee under the legislation is not sufficiently secured in the specific undertaking and measures must be taken. My question is probably not new to you because it's been raised before. There is no way for four or five years that the enterprise does not work normally, to accumulate negatives with unpaid salaries, and you do not know, but I say again: You, as Minister of Transport and principal of this enterprise recently, take measures and resolve these issues so that people do not protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I'm sincere with you. I can't help but agree with your findings and your conclusions. The work of one minister consists of two components: to be able to make decisions and be responsible. Management's job is to find work and to carry out the subject and activity of its undertaking. In this regard, I have commented with the honourable People's Representation in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the introduction of the relevant additions and amendments to the laws regulating the activities of the CTV and the WC, which are related to the establishment of a legal basis for companies to be entrusted with public tasks and to be compensated for, for which there is no legal basis at present. This will happen within this year as an initiative. On the other hand, it is envisaged the possibility to engage the expertise and to be closely profiled, for the construction, repair and restoration of railway infrastructure, which is the specialization of the company within the sector. We understand that in the case of strong market competition in the sector, where volumes are insufficient and the supply of the resource concerned exceeds both volumes and quantities, such non-market measures must be sought, to some extent, but within the framework of the law. I will soon draw the attention of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as your attention, in view of the fact that you have been contacted by employees and workers in the enterprise, who from this platform, I assure you that there is nothing to be afraid of. A person must have the right to vote for his statutory rights, and I undertake to do what is necessary in order to have labour justice within a state-owned company TTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u207	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov about the management of Sofia Tech Park. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u208	Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Professor Gechev, Mr. Gokov, Dear Quaestors...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u209	And shorthands!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u210	I'm sorry,...and esteemed stenographers! Mr. Minister, my question to you is related to the state and development of Sofia Tech Park. Personally, I, as a politician and as a citizen, have to admit that in the years when Sofia Tech Park was being built, I was really optimistic and I believed that Sofia Tech Park would develop because Bulgaria and Sofia need one such high-tech center. If you recall, we had a president who compared Sofia Tech Park to the new Power Valley. Unfortunately, after my visit, which I did there recently, it rather resembles not Silicon Valley, but desert Valley. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the employment at the moment on the basis of "Sofia Tech Park" AD, including office buildings, laboratory complex, experimentarium, incubator and forum "John Atanasov"?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u212	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished guests, honourable experts! Dear Mr. Prodanov, Sofia Tech Park is a strategic project of the state in the field of research, research, development and modern technologies and as such its development plans are long-term. Here is the moment to thank you for the question, as this is a strategic project. You are extremely right for many years these were terrains that were dedicated to office areas, but not their main activity. As of the end of 2015, all the main components of the research and technology park, namely building "Incubator" and building "Innovation Forum" "John Atanasov", building "Laborators," building "Etate Park", "Sport complex" and the overall technical infrastructure and green system of the park. According to the commitments made by Sofia Tech Park AD, scheduled including in the main document of the project, the so-called re-notification, have laid down basic obligations and restrictions on the possibilities and ways to provide, the use of the infrastructure of the park built with European funds. A research and development association has been established on the basis of the requirements of the re-notification. Further, I will call it SNIRD, which are provided for the management of some of the leading components of the project - building and laboratories together with the equipment to the laboratories themselves, as well as the building Innovation Fund - John Atanasov. At present, the team of Sofia Tech Park and SNIRD continue with effort to attract external financing to carry out activities related to the development of the country's first scientific and technological park, because due to a restriction in the infrastructure available for provision and use in the prevailing part of the time, the existing one can only be used for non-profit activities. The operation and employment of the main components of Sofia Tech Park is as follows: The laboratory complex consists of equipment with specialized equipment of 11 laboratories and is managed by SNIRD. To date, 11 external projects in different areas are implemented in the laboratories, 7 contracts in which the Association through the laboratory is partner of the Bulgarian companies in a project under the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020" and a number of contracts for providing services to the business. The laboratories are a major participant in the implementation team of the project "Fresh &amp; Refresh" for organizing events within the initiative............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The laboratory complex is approved as a partner in the implementation of Horizon 2020 Programme, which aims to position it as a digital and innovation hub in Bulgaria. Within the complex are held and a number of courses on different topics, listed are not going to read them, you will see them in the answer. Innovation Forum.. John Within a period of not less than three years, an Innovation Forum has been in operation. It has become one of the leading preferred locations for conducting events related to high technology, entrepreneurship, science, education, innovation, digitalization, medicine, events of public importance. In 2017, the Forum hosted 65 events, compared to 43 in 2016. The visitors are currently 45 thousand. By the end of the year, we are expected to have a 100-day fill of the year, expected to be visited by 60,000 people. It is located on an area of 620 sq. The space is specialized, developed for office, working network and support companies to develop their ideas and successful business. Currently, 24 companies, of which 19 start-ups, are working to develop the innovation business. The companies are described as well as the subject of activity. If you'll allow me, I won't be reading them right now. Museum of Experimentarium. The museum building is designed to meet a museum centre of innovation and high technology. It is about 2200 sq. m. The Interactive Children's Center is operational in the museum "Techno Menidik Land" located at about 1000 sq. M, and children between 7 and 14 years of age benefit from it. Thank you for your attention. In addition, I will complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u213	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'd like you to tell me, however, percently, what is the filling rate of time and as events. Because I told you in the statement itself that it makes the impression that the base is almost empty and empty. I will tell you why I want this as a percentage implementation and fill-in because in May 2018. You introduced a two-tier management system of the company and appointed a Supervisory Board, which is most likely tasked with improving operation as a whole on the basis. On top of that, these people get paid. Here the issue is another, it is principled for the participation and management of commercial companies, so I will not concern it. At the same time, there are no results from the work of the management of this company. Our political thesis you know the state can be a good owner as long as the state's owners are. I would like to ask you: As one of the state's owners and principal of this company, have you set any goals and tasks before the appointment of Oversight and, in general, before the Board of Directors, so that this company can contribute technologically to the development of the Bulgarian economy, become profitable as well? Because right now, according to what I'm seeing, it's a loser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u216	Thanks again. The answer you will receive specifically describes the filling of the areas and activities. You yourself said this guide was from May. First, let me say a few words, why did we make such a two-stage system of government? You know better than I do that every government has been replaced by the CEO of the company. This Supervisory Board has a three-year term and therefore has a three-year implementation programme and that is exactly what its tasks are. Sofia Tech Park is a very beautiful place, but it is empty. It's a fact. As you will see in the reference, and as I mentioned, we already have an increase. Here is the moment to say that many of the events during the European Presidency were also in Sofia Tech Park and this slightly distorts the picture of whether they are directly related to the events there. Many of them are directly related, for example, to digitalization, digitization. There are such events. There's a three-year program. I am also ready to come to the Economic Commission to the managers and the Supervisory Board of Sofia Tech Park and to present this programme to you. The goal is for young people to be in this technology park, not just to be a beautiful but desolate place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MP Rumen Gechev on record low foreign investments in Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there are not many people in this House, so this is a unique opportunity to sometimes address our guests personally in plenary. Dear colleague Karanikolov, I am addressing you on a complex, difficult matter. Of course, and with certain sentiments for obvious reasons, we need to look for a common solution. Why? What's the question? In 10 years, 2007 - 2017, foreign investments in Bulgaria have decreased almost 10 times. When we entered the European Union, they were nearly 18 billion. lv. or 27% of gross domestic product. Last year, the lowest bottom of this negative trend was reported about 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or Even more worrying is that in this year this indicator is getting worse at an increasing rate. For example, for the first 6 months of this year, foreign direct investments are only 50% of their level during the same period of 2017, and this 6 months coincides with the period when Bulgaria was President of the European Union. I would add, unfortunately, if we add the months of July and August, it is seen that the trend is even less favourable, as at the end of August BNB reported direct foreign investments around 230 million. EUR, which is catastrophically low. In this regard, we ask the following questions: 1. What are the reasons for the inability to implement the government's programme to attract more foreign investment? 2. Do you have a specific programme, mechanisms and tools to stimulate domestic investments as compensation for the dramatic contraction of foreign investment? 3. In the period 2017 - 2018 have you submitted specific proposals to the government for projects or legislative initiatives to create a more favourable business environment for foreign investors and what are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u219	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, guests and experts! Dear Professor Gechev, we had an opportunity on Wednesday. You know, we discussed the budget in his section on the Ministry of Economy and we also addressed this topic. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the latest BNB data, which show that foreign direct investment in 2017 is 1 billion. 389.6 million net, which is 386, 3 million. EUR more than the previous year. In fact, you know that the references you are reading right now, especially for this year, are initial, forecast and are subject to correction within the next 15 months. What I'm now saying about the increase, about a month ago, it had lower parameters, and now you can see it's bigger. In this respect, the Commission considers that there is no need for the Commission to take into account the fact that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. This trend is stable despite the decline observed in 2014 and a subsequent sharp jump in 2015. We should bear in mind that when we talk about investments, we have at least three indicators on the basis of which the conclusions on investment activity in Bulgaria are drawn. The investments of the core capital as a component of the gross domestic product, the costs of acquiring fixed tangible assets, foreign direct investments, which include investment in capital and liabilities of companies controlled by foreign companies to these parent companies. This is a different incision that reveals separate aspects of investment activity. So I wouldn't really say there's a decline in investment activity in the country. The most accurate indicator of investment is gross fixed capital formation. Gross fixed capital formation includes the cost of the acquisition of fixed non-financial assets, fixed tangible assets, buildings, machinery, equipment, equipment, etc., and fixed intangible assets. These are investments in assets used for a long period of time. In the second quarter of 2018, gross fixed capital formation from the same period of the previous year increased in real terms by 6.6%, according to data from the National Statistical Institute. According to the autumn macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance this year, the growth of gross fixed capital formation will be 8.9% and next 2019 will reach 9.5%. For the second indicator: The cost of the acquisition of capital goods is above 17 billion for 2017 and 4.3 billion are from companies with majority participation and rose by 9.55% compared to 2016. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As a share in the gross domestic product, foreign direct investment also reported an increase of 2.9 in 2016, i.e. it increased by 3.7% of gross domestic product in 2017. The Ministry of Finance's expectations for the next three years are to maintain the average annual level of 3.5% of gross domestic product. According to Eurostat data, according to the share of investments in gross domestic product, Bulgaria is among the fifteen Member States with an increase of 3.8% in 2017, with the average share in the period 2008. The year 2017 was 5,34%. In addition, I would like to point out that there may be some misunderstanding with regard to the fact that the data of foreign direct investment is usually followed as a stream, which is reported and published by the Bulgarian National Bank. It includes three substations: share capital, reinvested profits and debt instruments. Based on the data that is published, it is precisely the negative values of reinvested profit that it is logical to conclude that companies that have invested in previous years, including in the period of the most active privatisation, currently either do not make profit or pay dividends to the parent companies. That is why the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with the Bulgarian National Bank in a few months will publish data on direct positive flows. We also need to take into account that due to a change in the international financial reporting standard from the beginning of this year in the sub-sector of [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You had a question to which I will answer very briefly: did the Ministry of Economy take action to ease and whether there are more investments in Bulgaria, whether we share them in foreign or Bulgarian? As you know, the Ministry of Economy has reviewed 187 administrative services. We reviewed 113 of them by also amending 10 regulations on the basis of which reduced the fees collected from businesses, reduced the documents required from businesses and citizens, and eased the procedures for providing administrative acts. The national companies and industrial zones and the terrains we offer are in effect. You know what we do, we invest, first, in infrastructure, in production halls, as we are currently looking for ready production halls where investors can start working directly. In a very short way, for 2018, 18 projects have been certified since the beginning, 15 of them are class A, two for class B and two for priority investors. In total, the envisaged investments amount to 738 million. lv. and 1631 jobs are expected to be opened. Compared to 2017, we have 31 certificates, which amount to 311 million. BGN, and 5848 jobs are being opened, that is, at the moment, really there is an increased investment interest in Bulgaria and, as we discussed, we need to find solutions under the Investment Promotion Act or the so-called Adhok procedure to look for major strategic investors, for which I really rely on your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Karanikolov. Professor Gechev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u222	Thank you. My fellow Member, I believe that we should have had more discussion and looked for a solution on why investments are so tragic and not by numbers. I do not want to enter into disputes, but I want to declare that the data I use is on the website of the Bulgarian National Bank, as you correctly said. In my opinion, these are the most reliable data, not the initial data of the National Statistical Institute, which you have reason to use. There are investments when they're on the account, they're on the bank's computer. Otherwise intentions, certificates that is very good, only there are no concrete results. According to the Bulgarian National Bank there are 230m euros at the end of August. That's the way it is. Of course, with foreign investment there is no evenness, hopefully by the end of the year there will be a large investor who will change the picture, but I do not see it on the horizon. Dear colleague, you know perfectly well that without large investment projects, both medium and small investors will not come. That is why we are guilty of the Bulgarians, because the issue is not political at all. We cannot hold 3 billion in Belene's land for 27, 28 years now at a time when the Czech Republic expands its nuclear capacity and attracts foreign investors when Hungary expands its nuclear capacity and attracts foreign investors from the European Union and beyond, when Britain even attracts funds from communist China into billions of nuclear power building, and we slave to political dogmas. Secondly, another tragedy that could lead to foreign investors. While we were following certain instructions, unfortunately, Mrs Merkel began to build two more pipes on the bottom of the North Sea, didn't she? That is, whenever any Bulgarian government begins to obey its foreign policy of domestic economic policy and the interests of the country, then foreign investors will come. Finally, we need to create an opportunity to stimulate our Bulgarian investors, especially those in the high-tech sphere. You know, fortunately we have such investors, including in industrial areas. I'm going to finish with this: industrial zones are developing properly. I see there's activity in these areas, and that's good. My recommendation will once again be your right is whether or not you will comply in these areas to accommodate only manufacturing companies, especially companies with high added value. We have no interest in building warehouses in industrial areas for foreign companies to bring their finished production and attack our companies and our taxpayers to pay them, to have good conditions to attack them. I suppose that these bad practices from the past will also be overcome when permits are granted for these industrial zones, by giving the money to the Bulgarian taxpayers, to want producers to be accommodated in these areas rather than importers of goods from other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u223	Thank you, dear Professor Gechev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u224	Thank you, Professor Gechev, you know that I always respect your opinion. I'll start like this: I'm repeating something I just said. Of course, the reference of the Bulgarian National Bank is the right one, but, once again, I say: after its exit it is legally subject to a 15-month correction. That's a legal thing to do. Therefore, a month ago, comparing 2016 and 2017, it turned out that investments in 2017 were less than those in 2016. The new information that came out is that we have growth 2017 compared to 2016. Another question is whether it is sufficient. I can only say the following on the subject: there is a moratorium by the National Assembly to ban this project. If this moratorium fails, I am sure that both the state administration and everyone will work for this project, but here first the legislative authority must rule. There is no way, as long as there is a moratorium by the senior authority in the state, that civil servants can work on this issue. As some say, it should have already been this one, not done yet. I'm not commenting, it's not in my portfolio. It is interesting what you said in support of the fact that in the last two years there has been growth. Until now, companies that came to Bulgaria were involved in logistics, warehouses. In the last two years, there has been growth in the manufacturing and high-tech sector. In response to the reference: it is specified precisely from 2016, 2017 and 2018 how many of these undertakings are. I'm going to give you an example and I think you're also following this, at the moment the Bozhurishte industrial zone is filled to 30%. We have requests to sell it to 100% and most of them are warehouse manufacturing and logistics. Currently, the National Company "Industrial Zones" is seeking only producers and is interested in this area. We have no intention, unless there is a truly extremely large logistics centre, not to mention that Bozhurishte has problems with the entrance and exit of the area, for which I am working very actively both with Sofia Municipality and with local authorities. In Bozhurishte at the moment, all we are looking for is production and high-tech production. This is the future of Bulgaria and we want goods and services with high added value. I assure you this is the policy of both the government and the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-09.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. For lack of respectable reasons of the MPs Krasen Krastev, Kalin Vassilev and Evgeni Budinov the participation of the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov in today's parliamentary control is postponed. That was the last question. The next regular plenary session shall be on 14 November 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
