ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month, so the program is formed under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups this month, the parliamentary group of GERB is the first to be proposed. There is a proposal from the second group, which today has to offer this is the group of the BSP for Bulgaria. The first vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Criminal Code with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group for rights and freedoms. There is also no proposal from the political party's parliamentary group. Work programme for this week: 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018 2. Projects of decisions on changes in the Standing Committees. Importer: Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 30 March 2018. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Energy Act. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018; Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers: Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov on 1 March 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importers: Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Timchev on 1 March 2018. 6. Parliamentary control for Thursday 5 April 2018, at 9:00, including debates on the questions of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the field of heat supply; and answers questions and questions. I put to the vote your so-read National Assembly Work Programme. Vote 168 MPs: 158, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the floor for procedure.]] Let's get this program over with, Mr. Ivanov, and I'll give you the floor of procedure. There is a proposal for inclusion on the agenda under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure I propose on behalf of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" as a point in the Programme of the National Assembly for the period 4 April 2018. On 26 July 2017, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, the first vote on the Old People's Bill No 754-01-47. Please, Mr. Gokov, introduce us to your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with our rules, I have made a written proposal to include a point in the forthcoming program of the National Assembly. The bill was submitted on 26 July 2017. It was allocated to six parliamentary committees, leading the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. There are reports from four committees, including the lead committee. There are 11 opinions deposited, including by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, so there are no formal obstacles to its examination. Now for its importance. The ageing population is a global process that becomes a problem. The fastest ageing continent is Europe. It is expected by 2050. 35 percent of the continent's population is over 60 years of age. Bulgaria now ranks fourth in the world after Japan, Italy and Germany, according to United Nations data, with a population of 27 per cent over the age of 60. However, while this is due to high life expectancy and serious care for elderly people in Bulgaria, it is rather due to serious emigration of people of working age who are young people and catastrophic demographic indicators. In Bulgaria, policies that apply to older people are inadequate and care for them is now impossible to neglect because they are a serious problem for the whole society, and this will require the promotion of an attitude towards older people. Much in this direction can be achieved by means of an adequate law. Without saying that our proposal for such a law is perfect, it can initiate a settlement of public relations and a state policy in support of older people; take first steps to create conditions and standards for a full and active life and equal participation in public life; ensure the interests of older people by ensuring an appropriate economic, social and institutional environment for preventing and preventing social exclusion and for expanding, and improving the forms and conditions for the access of older people to public resources. We must all be convinced in this House that support for people throughout their life cycle is one of the main objectives of social policy. Elderly people have potential that needs to be encouraged. Please support the proposal to include this bill in the weekly programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u3	Thank you, Lord Gokov. I put to the vote Mr. Gokov's proposal for inclusion in the Work Programme of the National Assembly of the Old People's Bill. Vote 173 MPs: 161, no objection, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. A proposal for order in the program? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the draft Old People's Law, which has just been included in the National Assembly's Work Programme this week, be point six of the Programme for this week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote Mrs. Angelova's proposal to include the newly voted bill as item 6 on the agenda. They voted 161 MPs: 124 against 9, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in. You had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday, as a result of an extremely unpleasant incident, Bulgarian society is extremely worried because two hardened criminals, two murderers, whose way of leaving the prison, questioned the activities of the justice system and, in particular, the security of our prisons. Yesterday, as in a Western of the 1960s, armed with shooting, two murderers left the Central Sofia prison, one of the most guarded prisons in the country, and are currently among the Bulgarian citizens, unknown where. Obviously, as it became clear that passengers could be allowed to pass into Bulgaria, Bulgaria may have entered Schengen, it will become clear that in the next few minutes, hours, it turns out that the prisons, armed to the teeth, can be left calmly. An extremely dangerous incident, against the backdrop of the confessions of the Interior Minister and the Minister of Justice, that more than a thousand convicted people are walking around in the Bulgarian society, unaware of what sentences, because no one can tell us to date what sentences and what they are convicted of, but for those two we know for sure what they are about for extremely severe murders. In this regard, Madam President, I am proposing on the basis of art. 113 of our regulations here to be invited to be heard by the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva and the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev, so that we can hear from their mouths first, how these people, armed to the teeth, by shooting, left the central Sofia prison. At the moment, we do not know where they are, what crimes they can commit at this stage and what the Ministry of Interior is doing in terms of their capture, so that the spirits in society can be reassured. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I shall put to the vote the proposal made just now for a hearing under art. 113 of the Minister of Justice Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva and the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. Vote 167 MPs: 165, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please inform the ministers. Colleagues, we are moving to Decision No 5011-NS of 29 March 2018 on the announcement of Emil Serafimov Tonchev as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. By letter No NS-02-1 of 29 March 2018, the Central Election Commission received a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2018, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev as a MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, erected from the list of political party GERB in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has decided: supplied Emil Serafimov Tonchev, EGN..., as a MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of political party GERB from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. I have received a letter: "Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, we apply to you Decision No 5011-NS of 29 March 2018 of the Central Election Commission declaring Emil Serafimov Tonchev a Member of the National Assembly. Please invite the MP to take an oath. [[Everyone's up. Mr. Emil Tonchev enters the Chamber.]] Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u8	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people! I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u9	Draft and draft resolutions from 28 March 2018 to 3 April 2018: Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2017. Importer: Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers are Gemma Grozdanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2017. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Report on the Commission's activities on the revocation of illegally acquired property in 2017. Importer is the Commission on the revocation of illegally acquired property. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee is leading. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is the importer. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination is the importer. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. Draft decision to change the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Importer is Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov. Draft decision on debates on the questions of MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the field of heat supply. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Messages: On 2 April 2018, in accordance with point 1 of the National Assembly Decision of 19 January 2018, adopted in connection with the debates on the questions by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin on the policy for the construction of electronic governance, by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev has received a Report on the current state of development of horizontal components of e-government and the way for their accelerated implementation in a wide range of administrations. The report is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 29 March 2018, in accordance with point 3 of the National Assembly Decision of 17 November 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on the inquiry by the National Assembly Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on the policy for the solution of the demographic problems of the country, the Council of Ministers prepared and presented to the National Assembly a prognosis on the demographic development of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2040. In the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2018 from 23 April to 29 June 2018 will be held a joint Bulgarian-American pilot workout. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage and residence through and within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order on the grounds of art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 3 of the same law has authorised the participation in a joint pilot training of the following Allied forces and means between 7 May and 16 June 2018: firstly, aeroplanes, including transport, if necessary coordination and liaison servicemen, engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment and equipment and service of aircraft from the Royal Air Force of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; secondly, up to 35 soldiers from the air force of Romania. The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions conducted by others of another State or organisation, armed forces. The notification was received on 28 March 2018 with entry No 803-09-15 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a European Union Report in 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. It's basically what I'm talking about. The report and the summary were received on 30 March 2018 by letter No 840-02-1 of the General Secretariat of the European Commission. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on its implementation and functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 February to 24 March 2018 and Protocol No 15 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Fund, held on 27 March 2018, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the period 28 March, 3 April 2018, the National Assembly received: Report on the extent of implementation of the approved policies and programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2017; Report on implementation of the policies and budgetary programmes for 2017 and a summary thereof to the Ministry of Economy for 2017; Report on implementation of the programming budget as of 31 December 2017 of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report from the Interdepartmental Working Group with a permanent action to improve the quality control of water intended for drinking purposes and to prevent a possible risk to the health of the population established by the Order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Environment and Water, and the Minister of Health for the conduct of activities for the period from 1 October 2017 to 31 March 2018. The report was presented in implementation of the recommendations of the Report of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens adopted by the National Assembly on 25 October 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Environment and Waters and the Commission on Health. It is also provided electronically to the electronic mails of the Members of the National Assembly and in paper form in the Library of the National Assembly. Information has been received from the National Statistical Institute on the business structure March 2018, indexes of the prices of a producer from the industry since February 2018. The materials are available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are going to the first point of the proposal under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Mr. Zarkov, please give us the opinion of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have the honour to introduce you to our proposal for amendment and addition to the Penal Code, which proposes to change the nature of the intentionally caused moderate bodily injury of a close relative or husband. We suggest: from a private crime to become a common crime or, more precisely, from the category of so-called private-public charges. We also propose to create a more qualified, more severe punishmental composition to thwart the execution of a judgment or order for protection against domestic violence. As you know, at the moment, the deliberate average bodily damage to art. 129 of the Penal Code, committed between persons of a relation, are private crimes. In particular, this means that their prosecution is carried out on the grievance of the victim brought to the District Court. If such grief is not filed or subsequently withdrawn from the victim, then this crime may and often goes unpunished. With the Bill it is proposed to define the same as a common crime, specifically this will mean several things: First, the start of criminal proceedings will again be saddened, but it will not be submitted to the court as it is now, but to the prosecution. Secondly, unlike actual crimes of a private nature, the grievance will not be withdrawn at the request of the subject. And thirdly, unlike the private ones in which this phase is missed, there will now be pre-trial proceedings in criminal proceedings. The main argument for this proposal is the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, the close proximity between them, a kinship relationship. In practice, in these cases, the victim is in difficulty in the effective collection and presentation of evidence, these are witnesses, supply of documents and other documents necessary to prove the crime. It will be easier and more effective, in our view, for these actions to be carried out by the investigating authorities or the prosecution. Furthermore, we all know that the proximity between the perpetrator and the victim, the existence of addictions, fear, shame, and others can make it difficult and often impossible to organize an accusation by the victim. Our second proposal for the creation of a qualified and more severe punishmental composition of the crime under art. 296 is dictated by the frequent failure to comply with judgments or an order for protection against domestic violence. We hope and are sure that this would give more real and timely protection and, on the other hand, would also increase the preventive effect. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in the turbulent debates surrounding the Istanbul Convention, an indisputable moment has emerged, and it is that too often violent people who commit a crime against their relatives, often against women, remain unpunished. On this issue, despite heated debates, no one is arguing and no one has said that no action should be taken. These measures would be effective if they found their reflection in the Penal Code. One of the reasons why such crimes are often unpunished is the inability of the victim to properly organise his defence and prosecution against his abuser. That is why we propose this change, which, among other things, takes into account the Bulgarian criminal law tradition and addresses extremely carefully and responsibly the delicate issue of interfering with the state prosecution in family and family relations. We're asking for your support. This would be a real step in solving a painful problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. After the presentation of the bill, we are going to debate on it. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In fact, the first thing that we are focusing on is the draft Law on amendment and supplement to the Penal Code, which will lead to prevention. More specifically, this is the longest-term work, because it means the eradication of stereotypes that the weak in the family is undervalued and subject to the stronger and must know its place regardless of its age and gender. It has been shown that validating such a stereotype in society is a prerequisite for violence when the weaker ones in the family begin to appear equal in contrast with their expected behaviour. Therefore, the Penal Code will require, first of all, the promotion of changes in social and cultural patterns of behavior of women and men in order to eradicate prejudice, customs, traditions and any other practices based on the idea of inferiority of the weak in the family or stereotype roles of the man, woman and children. Another objective of the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is to raise public awareness of human rights, the impact on victims of violence and on children, as well as on the legal measures to be taken. All this will lead to the achievement of the objectives of the general individual prevention set out in the Criminal Code. It will overcome and eliminate the sense of superiority of the physically stronger, its inaccessibility and will require the rule of law in family relations. It is clear to everyone that in the current regulation the victim is having difficulty in effectively proving the relevant facts due to the situation of dependence, emotional commitment and other similar reasons which can often make it virtually impossible to organise the accusation on his part. That is why we propose two changes. One of them concerns art. 161, whose first paragraph currently provides that for bodily injury under Articles 129, 132, 133 and 134 caused to ascending, descending, husband, brother or sister, prosecution shall be aroused by the distress of the victim. Therefore, we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party propose that the pursuit of moderate bodily harm by a relative be arranged in the second subparagraph of Article 2. 161 of the Penal Code, that is, to deal with the prosecution. From a private crime to be retrained into a common crime of the type of persecution according to the order of the so-called private-public charge and the creation of a more qualified punishing formation under art. 296 of the Criminal Code.. in the event of the failure of the enforcement of a judgment or order for protection against domestic violence by introducing a repeat hypothesis. The project takes into account the degree of State interference in the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim in view of the closeness and kinship between them. On the one hand, it shall take into account the public danger of the offence, a serious crime punishable by the general composition under art. 129 of the Code of Penalty "up to 6 years in prison" and, on the other hand, the interest of Bulgarian citizens and society as a whole, and regulatoryly ensuring higher efficiency, investigation and disclosure of this type of activity. We propose to create a qualified more severe punishing composition of a crime under art. 296, para. 1 of the Penal Code, when the offender does not comply with the measure imposed by the court to protect the victim. The provision states: "The person who prevented or thwarted in any way the execution of a judgment or failed to comply with an order for protection against domestic violence or a European protection order shall be punished by imprisonment up to 3 years or fine of up to 5000 BGN. Our idea is that if someone interferes with or hinders the execution of the court's decision or the order for protection against domestic violence, the penalty will be from 1 to 5 years in prison, with a minimum limit of 1 year. In this way, the sense of impunity will be removed from the perpetrators of these acts and, on the other hand, it will be seen that the state is interfering with the victim's side. In view of the above, we ask you to support our Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u13	Thank you. Any lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u14	Dear Mr President, I would like to present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u15	Thank you for that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. At its meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. Lawyer Valya Gigova attended the meeting of the Supreme Council of Laws. The bill was presented by Mr. Pencho Milkov. The bill proposes a change in the nature of intentionally caused moderate bodily harm to a close relative or spouse from a criminal offence of a general nature, from the category of the so-called private-public charge. It is proposed for the initiation of the criminal proceedings to once again be necessary the sadness of the victim, but submitted to the prosecution and not to the court, and the grief will not be withdrawn at the request of the applicant. A qualified composition of the crime under Article shall be introduced. 296 of the Criminal Code, which contains two forms of the enforcement action.. The failure to comply with a judgment or order for protection against domestic violence. On the bill were received negative opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Ministry of Justice, as well as a positive opinion from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov, Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Simeon Naydenov. Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Kirilov expressed their support for the proposed bill, as Kirilov added that it does not cover the issue of combating violence against women and domestic violence. In the course of the discussion Mr. Lazarov proposed that the importers consider the possibility that the legal proceedings could be terminated at the request of the victim. Mr. Mitev added that the inability of the victim to withdraw the complaint poses a risk that family relations may not improve. Mr. Milkov noted that the act is an average bodily injury and regardless of the subsequent improvement of relations, it still refers to the abuse of the individual. Mr. Naydenov pointed out that he would not support the bill, as it would lead to deterioration of family relations and would prevent the possibility of their improvement in cases where the child is necessarily condemned. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that a preventive effect is being sought and an increase in criminal coercion in relation to the attacks against the person. He added that the current regime does not provide sufficient guarantee to protect citizens' privacy and that is why the victim is proposed to address the state prosecutor. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Law, Mrs. Gigova expressed her opinion that the inability to withdraw the complaint is interference in the privacy of citizens. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Criminal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on January 18, 2018, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you allow me to go into a brief statement, I will limit myself to several sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u17	Mr. Kirilov, we need to hear another report on the bill. Let us then resume the debate, as this provides for the procedure. Thank you. I ask a Member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights to brief us on the contents of the Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 22 March 2018, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Vasil Antonov. The bill proposes a change in the nature of intentionally caused moderate bodily injury to a close relative or spouse from a criminal offence of a general nature, of the category of the so-called private-public charge. In such cases, criminal proceedings of general nature will be initiated on the grievance of the victim brought to the Prosecutor's Office and not to the court, and the grievance will not be withdrawn at the request of the applicant. The reasons for the proposed change relate to the difficulties of the victim in the effective collection and presentation of evidence relevant to the evidence of the crime, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to the inability to organise the accusation by the victim due to the presence of closeness with the perpetrator, dependence, fear and other similar reasons. The creation of a qualified, more severely punishable, composition of the crime under art. 296 of the NK in thwarting the execution of a judgment or order for protection against domestic violence by introducing a repeat hypothesis. Mr. Antonov stressed that the Bill largely solves one of the essential issues provided for in the Istanbul Convention, namely in the part of changing and increasing certain penalties. In the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on the Bill, negative opinions were received from the General Assembly of the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Ministry of Justice, as well as a positive opinion from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Evgenia Alexieeva, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Valentina Naydenova. The MPs expressed their support for the proposed bill. Mr. Krasimir Velchev stressed that the bill is an integral part of the issue of the Istanbul Convention, namely that part on which the public discussion has reached full agreement. He drew attention to the need for complex measures and stricter sanctions, which would motivate older people who have suffered violence to have the courage to ask the state to intervene. Mr. Dencho Boyadzhiev expressed his opinion that this amendment will largely bring balance and security to people who may be potential victims of violence. Ms. Evgenia Aleksieva drew attention to the need for a comprehensive approach in the proposed bills, given the National Programme for Prevention and Protection from Domestic Violence for 2017 - 2020, adopted by the Council of Ministers, on the basis of which the Ministry of Justice should prepare a package of measures. She pointed out that the changes to the Penal Code do not cover the subject of domestic violence and violence against women, but it is a good step in this direction. Mrs. Yordanka Fikirliyska added that it is necessary to consider the possibility for the victim to withdraw his complaint in order to restore good family relations. Ms. Valentina Naydenova pointed out that the proposed changes are an example of respect for human dignity and protection of the privacy of each person. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 15 votes in favour, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-1, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Nino and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. There are no other reports from the Commission. We are back to discussing the bill under consideration. The word asked Mr. Kirilov with the presentation of the Report. Let's give it to him. Then Mr. Popov. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to make this speech as laconic as the Commission's report on legal matters has been sufficiently detailed in order to express the views that have been taken in the discussion. Colleague lawyers from GERB's parliamentary group supported the Bill with a clear awareness that there is something to work between first and second readings. The three negative opinions, which are good between first and second readings, show this to the fullest extent possible to make mutual effort to implement the recommendations in these negative opinions. For us, this change does not run out of all the measures for the implementation of the institutions provided for in the Istanbul Convention, but we take the positive direction to think of appropriate adequate changes whether the Istanbul Convention will be ratified or not ratified. We have done part of the legislative work on preventing and protecting victims from domestic violence and protecting women and children, but we must continue in this direction consistently and systematically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Next statement said Mr. Popov, Mr. Gokov afterwards. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the basic principles in law is that it provides protection for the more defenseless citizen, the more defenseless person. Undoubtedly, such are women and children, especially when it comes to domestic violence. That is why we are also consistent in our position, which is that changes to the legislative framework are needed in order to better protect the rights and legitimate interests of women and children from the state. This is undoubtedly a first step, a right step in this direction. That is why we have tabled this bill. He received his support from the Legal Commission. I am sure and hopeful that it will also receive support in plenary, because the undisputed part of the Istanbul Convention is practically now being re-created at first reading, today it will be re-created at first reading within the Criminal Code. Of course, there are amendments to the law amending and supplementing a number of other laws, the legal framework concerning precisely the better protection of women and children. I repeat, however, this is the first step in the right direction that we have taken, and I hope that we will also be supported here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u23	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Gokov has given a statement. There's no one else for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see that we are moving towards consensus and to adopting this bill, but I would also like to say a few words to support its adoption, because it is extremely important that we stop this violence. This violence is condemned by law, morally and from every point of view. It is in form a manifestation of the lowest and most primitive human aggression. Here we are talking about a particular type of violence, which is violence against women and domestic violence, which seems to be even more unacceptable and reprehensible. Gender-based violence involves most often insults and humiliations, battery, less rape, restriction of freedom, persecution of the victim, financial pressure, destruction of property, threats and physical violence to relatives. Currently, according to Bulgarian law, the Criminal Code, when we have deliberateness in actions and they have led to medium body damage, but they are between people in kinship, this is defined as a criminal offence of a private nature and criminal prosecution can be done only if there is a grievance brought by the victim in court. You yourself understand that for fear, addiction, sentimental reasons and so on, when it comes to relations between people in a close relationship, for example, husband and wife, in most cases sadness is not applied to the court. In the few cases where one has been submitted, it shall withdraw. So this crime goes unpunished. According to the World Health Organization, about 35% of women worldwide have been subjected to physical or sexual violence. Studies in Bulgaria I am familiar with at least two of these indicate that every fourth Bulgarian woman is a victim of domestic violence. That's scary! Although violence is considered unacceptable, although it is a crime and a judgmental one, we must admit that it is not rare in the Bulgarian family. If violence in any way, including through a judicial penalty, is not crossed at the outset, it is very likely that this will lead to the victim's abuse, which will become a prerequisite for violence for a long time. Children learn and repeat the patterns of their parents'family relationships. A child who has been raised in an atmosphere of family violence accepts the use of violence as normal and as a means and argument in disputes with other children. For the most part, abused women come from families in which violence has been exercised, and we enter a closed circle from which it is difficult to get out. In a democratic country, which we claim Bulgaria to be, in a democratic community, which we claim to be Bulgarian, there is no way not to condemn all forms of violence against women and domestic violence, not to seek retribution, not to impose punishment. Therefore, in these proposals for amendments to the Penal Code, we propose that these crimes should already be identified as common crimes. What exactly does that mean? The victim is sending a signal or a grievance, but not to the court, but to the prosecution, and this sadness cannot be withdrawn. A criminal case shall be initiated and pre-trial proceedings shall be carried out. That is, the collection and presentation of evidence to prove the crime is carried out by the investigating authorities or the D.A., not by the victim of the violence. We also propose the creation of a qualified, more severe punishment staff to thwart the execution of the judgment or order for protection against domestic violence. Violence against women really disgusts me. This is not a problem that should remain within the family. I am convinced that it should be strictly pursued by the Bulgarian legislation. I am convinced that prevention and combating violence against women and domestic violence must continue. Let us follow, if you will, the spirit of the notorious Istanbul Convention, but only in its undisputed part, so that the traditional values for the Bulgarian society are not questioned. I think this proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs is completely in that spirit. I want to persuade you to accept the proposed changes, not as populism, but as a step forward in the fight for equality and firm opposition to violence. If we have the understanding and commitment of governors and opposition to domestic violence, as is happening at the moment, and the intolerance of society towards it, we can achieve much more than what is recorded in the Istanbul Convention. I even think we can keep it to a minimum. I expect support for the proposal, all the more so, given the support in the Commission, which is almost unanimous. Negative opinions do not bother me, because the things that are written in them can be foreseen and ironed between first and second votes. Once again, I expect support and full unanimity for the Bill so that everyone with a great deal of confidence can consider their home to be their fortress and rely on their close relatives as guarantors for their safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u25	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group will support the proposed bill, as it has done in the Commission, through the speeches and votes of its representatives. The initiative to take a criminal penalty on the fight against domestic violence, violence against women is commendable. Indeed, the efforts of importers should be supported to maximise the process of proving by the applicant through the transformation into the provision of art. 129 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, of the private proceedings in.. can be defined as a private-public nature, insofar as it cannot be withdrawn after the filing of the grievance. From then on, the authorities of pre-trial proceedings should conduct a full and complete investigation and proof of the prosecution. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the change in art. 129. This is the inability to terminate the criminal proceedings by the applicant of the grieving party. I believe that in this regard it should be carefully considered between first and second reading the critical opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation, especially in that part. It should, once one person can initiate one proceedings, have a corresponding right to terminate it in cases where we have, for one reason or another, an improvement of the relationship between the mourner and the defendant during a judicial phase, respectively and pre-trial. I believe that careful consideration should be given to the possibility of giving this right to the mourner to assess whether at some point his relations with the defendant have reached such a stage, as far as family, close and family relations and relations are concerned, in which he would consider it appropriate to terminate criminal proceedings. I think that this corresponding right should be given to him, provided that, on the other hand, there will be the full possibility and support of the state prosecution in relation to proving the act in the pre-trial phase. The change to be envisaged with the qualified composition in art. 296 as regards the implementation of decisions relating to the execution of orders under the Law on Domestic Violence. We will support the proposed bill by making a proposal between first and second readings in the part I mentioned, for providing for the right of the mourner to terminate criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Are there any statements on the bill under consideration? If there are no other speeches, I will close the debates and move on to a vote at first reading of the proposed bill. We proceed to the vote at the first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-1, tabled by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018. Vote 153 MPs: for 152, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed at first reading. Mr. Kirilov, come in as per procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for two procedural proposals. The first procedural proposal is for an extension of a period and concerns the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 802-01-8, in which the time limit for proposals between first and second reading expires today. I ask you to put to the vote the extension of this period by two weeks to expire on 18 April 2018 including.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to extend the deadline for proposals under the Bill amending the Civil Procedure Code. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the second procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second procedural proposal concerns the bill that we have just seen, amending and supplementing the Penal Code, with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, and I propose that the deadline for a proposal between first and second reading be the maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. We are going to vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal for the adoption of a maximum period for proposals between first and second readings on the newly adopted Law amending the Penal Code. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u32	Let's move on to the next point: PROJECT FOR THE CHANGES TO THE STANDING COMMITMENTS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Importer is Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Zaprev Dinev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Evgenia Biserova Aleksieva as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the decision to change the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism with a text in accordance with the text of the importer. Voted 118 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. We continue with the proposal made by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[Definitions between the President and members of the parliamentary group of GERB.]] Let's go with the second one. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Zaprev Dinev as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the proposal adopted today by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Every day we lose the sense of a country. Any news, from the escape of prisoners, through the foreign minister's commentary on social networks, to the deal with CEZ and the Private Security Act, which gave security to citizens in the hands of private interests, says one thing: a state has no! In the economy, in security, in foreign policy, there is only a state where it collects taxes and distributes public money, and it is opaque and quite doubtful. A country is not proven there, outside, in the official photos, but inside to every Bulgarian citizen! We from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are reminded that the sovereign is the people, the sovereign is not on the yellow pavement, and is not in the building of the Council of Ministers! The sovereign is elsewhere, the people who, despite the difficulties, remain living in our homeland, maintain their country through their personal responsibility and still believe in it. The example of escaped prisoners proves that the state is out of place. Whether there's a breakdown of statehood we'll find out now, but the sovereign wants security. The state is required to ensure this security. It is not normal in a Member State of the European Union that two extremely dangerous prisoners should be armed inside the prison, it is not normal in a Member State of the European Union when, at the moment, the Council of Europe, prisoners are presiding through the front door, it is not normal in a Member State of the European Union, the cleaning lady, of whom we do not know her name, the only person to have the courage to chase these prisoners. And here, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility lies entirely with the government and the two ministers who need to give concrete answers here, why did it come to this, and how did it come to this? And it is your responsibility because for 10 years we have a breakdown of institutions for people who may not have a place in those institutions who assume responsibilities that do not meet their competences, their qualities, their professionalism only because they are members of a political party and it is called GERB. Nevertheless, we have a Constitution, this Constitution guarantees the security of Bulgarian citizens. We are obliged to respect the Constitution, and you, as a party currently in charge of the state, are obliged to reassure the Bulgarian citizens and, above all, to understand how it has come to this, because really the reasons can be many. They can be systematic, they can be instantaneous, they can also be an example of the insidiousness of specific criminal prisoners, but in the end, this is happening in a country that is truly a member of the European Union. That is why we insist on concrete answers from the two ministers, so that not we, but the Bulgarian citizens, should be calm. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u34	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'll just remind the order from now on to ask questions. We will use the arrangement of the parliamentary groups for April. First questions will be asked by the parliamentary group of the political party GERB, after them are the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. After them will be asked questions from the parliamentary group of the political party GERB, after them are the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian party. After asking a question to the two ministers, they answer. I give the floor for questions to the Political Party GERB. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! With regard to the facts that have happened, such are also happening in other countries, such are happening in the back of time for the escape of suffering punishment. Some time ago, we also listened to the Chief Prosecutor in the Commission regarding those who are being sought for the punishment of imprisonment................................... I would like to ask my question to both of them: what organizational measures the Bulgarian government has taken. "The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, to limit and prevent such phenomena, first. Secondly, for the control of these individuals, and, thirdly, for the possibility of searching for such persons who have deviated from suffering the penalty of being deprived of liberty?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Which one of you will answer first? Mrs. Tsacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lazarov! An extremely serious incident yesterday in one of the most guarded prisons in Sofia In due course, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, have been informed, in an operational manner, and we have decided to announce them with their portraits, with their names to make them known to the citizens. You're asking me about organizational measures to limit and prevent such phenomena. I should first clarify that there is no doubt that human error is involved in this case, it is also a technical failure to complete the security systems that are operating. What do I mean by human mistakes? There's a clear warrant that determines who's allowed to enter prison facilities. Day-to-day controls are being carried out by duty officers who are on duty and checking these items. The very fact that an armed escape is being carried out, established in a firm way so far, one of them has been with a knife, the other with a gun, means that these items have been imported into the Sofia prison. With regard to the actions taken in a timely manner. A committee has been set up, led by Deputy Director Mitko Dimitrov, with members of this committee of the supervisory security structures of DGIN to carry out a thorough inspection of the entire case. With regard to the competences which the Ministry of Justice has with regard to DGIN and the prison, we will make maximum efforts to collect the information relevant to the case. In good communication and synchronization we act with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. More information, as you now know that operationally-wanted, investigative actions were taking place last night until late within the prison to establish the factual situation as it was indeed. What I do know is that everything has developed very rapidly in a matter of minutes. There are footage of the cameras that are currently being analyzed, and from now on, we need to continue our search and capture action on these, I repeat, dangerous criminals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Mr. Minister Radev, you have the floor to answer the same questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the Ministry of Interior we expect information about these persons, as you saw, we immediately gave the Prosecutor's Office and put their photos on the Ministry's website. I must inform you that about the escape of the person Vladimir Pelov or for preparation for escape we had operational information last year, which was given back then to the Ministry of Justice and those who are interested in this. They have been made and the necessary measures have been taken on this, but unfortunately it has happened that he has now escaped from prison. Currently working headquarters in the SDVR under the leadership of Chief Commissioner Hristo Terziyski, who is the Director of the Directorate General of National Police. The borders are heavily guarded in places where we expect the two or one of the escaped prisoners to come out. I'm deliberately not specifying where. There's an investigation going on right now, and I can't say any more, but I can say they're being interrogated and interrogated right now, and they're under control, generally speaking, connected individuals with these two, those who were probably helping, and those who are expected to help now, because they're out. This is briefly what we do and what measures we are taking at the moment from the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Questions from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Velkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Minister Tsacheva, Minister Radev! I would like to note with concern that what we are hearing about this case is extremely high in public danger, committed by people who are willing to do anything and, unfortunately, we have to say that when we first meet people and attempt to neutralize them, it is possible to go to extreme action. But this is not so disturbing, but what I heard just now from Minister Radev that one person is being exercised or shown interest, and there is information that he was already preparing for escape. In this regard to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Tsacheva, I have the following questions, and they are mainly about the state of the security system at the places of detention, respectively the Sofia Central Prison and the actions of those who should have carried out the security measures. We should not forget the fact that part of this system, respectively, its performers were just preparing for a decisive protest with their demands for improving conditions, salaries and their demands were personally satisfied by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, so they should carry out their duties as follows. Here are the questions: how did it come to allow the introduction of firearms into a highly guarded facility, and how did a person who suffered punishment under strict regime acquire this weapon? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Time's up?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u42	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u43	I'm asking you to continue your time in view of the high degree... The circumstances surrounding the surrender and acceptance of baggage by relatives of the punishment, crossing regime and security, the actions of the guards, Madam Minister, after overcoming the system by these persons and leaving the prison. I advise you, although the films are fictional, to watch the movie The fugitive train and to see how in American prisons there are their own groups in prison, which after the escape continue to act...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u45	...compatible with the police. And who will take responsibility? To the Minister of Interior Mr. Radev... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Please, Mr. Lazarov, stop calling, we heard that you said that in other countries is fine. Now it is about our Republic of Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u46	Mr. Velkov, please don't stray! Give me a brief question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u47	Yeah, for operational search events, what forces, which structures, without violating the confidentiality requirement, are attracted, given that one of them took hostages and killed people directly without hesitation? Is he attracted to the search for the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Task Force, who is the only one who has experience in this regard? The presence of what documents is found in these people? Have you closed the boundaries? Are there any building events at the checkpoint around Sofia? Personally, I happened to travel yesterday, and I didn't see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u48	Mr. Velkov, thank you, you've delayed the time twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u49	Yeah... Only if you allow, Minister Radev, if we can be useful, usually such people, as the case of Novi Iskar showed, are hiding if they cannot leave the area, in places where they are best known, and these are the Botevgrad and Teteven Balkan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u50	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Here you are, Minister Tsacheva, for the answer to the question you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Velkov, it is true that there was data in 2016 that one of the two escaped prisoners was ready or at least prepared for escape. The reaction of the leadership then was to stop this person from working, where, you know, during this work, the regime is, how do I put it, not so strict. As soon as the first questions were answered, I said that there is clearly a problem with the execution of the order for admission into the buildings of the places of imprisonment only permitted items. The fact is, there are those who aren't allowed, but they were used in yesterday's escape. I mentioned it to you, I repeat it, there is a commission appointed to answer these questions and to come to the reasons that have led to the possibility of bringing in such items. I am talking about the knife and the gun. As far as security measures are concerned in places of imprisonment, in addition to the duties and responsibilities of the prison administration, of the services that are in charge of the prison, there is also an employee of the Ministry of Interior in each of these places. The fact is that I have no words for how to call it a case from yesterday has not previously become known to the people who have a responsibility to this situation. I can't tell you any more. Once the committee is over, I will come and lay out here in detail the conclusions it has reached.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u52	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Mr. Minister Radev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Velkov! What forces were used by the Ministry of Interior? I said before, if you want me to repeat them: all searchers are working. The best are included in the headquarters, which, I said, is in the SDVR. Right after what happened, they're working. The borders are closed. I deliberately don't specify which boundaries, but generally, possibly not to leave there. They're interrogating and interrogating connected individuals to not specify who, because maybe these two or one of them are listening to us, or they're looking at us right now. Thank you for Teteven and for Botevgrad. We know that, of course, and for your information, if you do not know, the last time the person Pelov was caught in his villa in Botevgrad Balkan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u54	Thank you, Minister Radev. Docent Mihov, you have the floor for a question by the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u55	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our question is specific. In the prison system, let's put it this way, there is a specialized unit that is at the Ministry of Interior and is called the "Operative Service of Prisons" sector. Our question is: how, honourable ministers, do you see the regulation, structure and functions of the task force, operational service of places of imprisonment, in the fight and prevention of such serious criminal offences, because escape is such a criminal offence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u56	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Minister Tsacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihov, there is such a unit in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Currently, a joint instruction is being prepared between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor General's Office, which is more than a month old on the occasion of the synchronization between the three institutions related to the timely execution of persons with convictions in the places of imprisonment I just mentioned that there are employees of the Ministry of Interior in every prison. Of course, in my opinion, they are not enough in some of the prisons are one, there are two in another place. I believe that with these powers alone, as a human factor, the obligations that we have could not be achieved. That is why we are also discussing within the structure of the Directorate-General for the implementation of the penalties to create an internal security unit, which will coordinate directly with the Ministry of Interior's unit and employees, but these are actually functions that are still being implemented, although there is no strictly structured unit. Another point is that the results of the actions are not satisfactory to anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. Will there be a question from the DPS parliamentary group? I won't. From the parliamentary group of Volya? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u59	Dear ministers, dear colleagues! For me, it's incomprehensible and misunderstood how this weapon was brought to prison. Almost every week I go to another prison as a lawyer, not a convicted person. It's very difficult to get in because I'm under thorough scrutiny. Scanners signal for every metal object. The question must be raised seriously: is there no involvement of a prison officer to bring this gun in? The question is also raised: why is it convicted of a serious deliberate crime, very serious, allowed to work in the kitchen, where knives and forks are handled, which can also be a tool for stabbing or stabbing? Answer me the question: what is this knife, kitchen, folding, or is it imported, as the gun is imported? To organize this job in prison so well, why are prisoners allowed to use cell phones? Massive use of cell phones. Almost every day I get a call from prisons from my clients who are convicted. To the Minister of Interior another question: what is done by the Ministry of Interior for the Society, the people to help uncover these two escaped prisoners? In what way will they be stimulated to help, not to be afraid to report them? How will they be stimulated? The only way they're gonna help is if they need incentive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, thank you for what you have shared from your experience the thorough checks that are being carried out. Yeah, it's regulated. There are relevant internal rules, instructions, orders for what is allowed to be imported and what is not. However, the fact that the escape was carried out with a firearm means that it was imported somehow outside the prison premises. My first words were that there are human mistakes for me. At this stage, before the work of the appointed committee to answer these questions, I could no longer answer you in the specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Minister Radev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Naydenov! What is done by the Ministry of Interior for disclosure, for their capture? A few times, a second time, if you want a third time, I'll tell you what we're doing right now. I'm deliberately not going into detail, if that's what you're interested in. You said you were a lawyer. You know the details. More than I said, I can't add what we're doing. How do we stimulate citizens? If you're from the guild, I'm sure you know we don't have the right to announce a cash prize, for example. I can also call them, and from here I also call them: who, where there is information, to share it with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Under no circumstances shall he come into contact with these dangerous criminals armed with a weapon, the other with a knife. We don't know. Maybe they have access to other weapons outside. They're both extreme. You see the sentences of 30 years, 28 of them remain on one; the other is almost the same. This we can only do, and everything else that the Ministry does for all criminals, in this case we apply it with a little more force or at least with greater effort, because, I said, they are dangerous and have nothing to lose. That's all I can add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second question from the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Considering that there has always been an escape from prisons since the time of Count Monte Cristo, the escape train, as it was said, from Alcatraz, was the most guarded prison, we have escapes. I don't want to belittle the case. I mean, this case is another case that concerns the realization of a criminal mindset, and that is not a political issue. I would like to ask you on purely legislative issues and issues related to this case, taking into account the following two circumstances. On 7 March, the Prosecutor General kindly attended a dialogue with the Committee on Legal Affairs and informed us of any measures taken with regard to persons who deviate from the imprisonment. He informed us that 925 such persons have now deviated: three of these persons are sentenced to life imprisonment; 60 of them are foreigners; some of them are wanted and brought to justice. On that note last week, the Constitutional Court ruled Decision No 6, confirming the changes that we have made in the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to optimising criminal proceedings, including for non-violation from the application of the prison sentence. My question to you is: in view of these circumstances and despite our intense legislative programme, which almost comprehensively reflects all changes both in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Law on Punishment and Detention, do you plan to use the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers to make an amendment and supplement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Dear Minister Tsacheva, come in! You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov! You rightly mentioned that since November last year, substantial changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure have been in force, which was intended to improve procedures, including with regard to the penitentiary system. The timing of these changes is very short. It is still early to carry out a follow-up impact assessment. I am convinced that these changes were in the right direction, in the right direction, and they will work. I am not a supporter of a campaign change in legal acts, whether in the Penal Code or in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because in the verification that is currently being carried out, it is likely to be found, I am almost convinced that there are rules for everything that the legislator has foreseen such hypotheses, but when the human factor has to apply the law, there are problems happening. Let us have a more general picture of how the changes that are already a fact and are a law in force work. At this stage, I believe that it is premature to make any proposals before we have the findings of the verification that has been carried out, and, of course, the data from the search and the investigative actions carried out by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you want the floor, Minister Radev? No. Second issue from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Radev, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! My fellow Members, I have listened carefully to what you have said so far, but one thing is undeniable. What happened yesterday in the central Sofia prison is a huge blunder, a string of indecently criminally non-compliance with the duties, the laws of employees who are subordinate to you, Madam Minister. No one can be convinced in this House that for placing the weapon, the preparation of the escape, Mr. Radev said that one year in advance you were warned that such a thing is coming is not responsible for any of your ministry employees. By law, you are directly responsible for how penalties are executed, in general, for the entire system of punishments. Mr. Radev, I'm going to ask you a question first. Please answer me: how and is there an effectiveness of this communication between your Ministry and the Ministry of Justice? How do you respond to all your signals and information you submit to the Ministry of Justice because I am convinced that this is not an isolated case? We have plenty of other places to put up with punishment in the country. Aren't we going to be witnesses in the coming months of a case like this?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u70	Mr. Ivanov, your time will run out and this time I will not compromise.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u71	Mrs. Tsacheva, how do you respond to this blunder? Which of your employees will bear the responsibility, because it is quite clear that such responsibility must be borne...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u73	...and political responsibility for what happened? Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u74	Dear Minister Radev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov! What is the effectiveness or efficiency of interaction and communication? You ask with the Ministry of Justice? I don't know how to define it. I set an example for you, and you repeated it now. Yeah, we got inside a unit that signaled this guy, then measures were taken. He worked outside in the yard, there was some possibility, then he was immediately picked up. That's the reaction. So there's communication, they've done, I hope, the necessary. It's been a long time, and this guy took advantage of it. For what reasons we are discussing this right now. So communication has the same thing I'd say about other prisons. I don't see anything, and there's no signal to me that there's a problem with communication with the Justice Department. That's my short answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Minister Tsacheva, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, I have already had the opportunity to say "I would like to say once again: at the moment when I have the full information about the responsibilities of specific employees, no matter what levels they are in the hierarchy of Sofia Prison and the Directorate General for Punishment, make sure that I will be uncompromising!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u78	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Are there any questions from the Parliamentary Group of United Patriots? No questions asked. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. From the political party, Volya? Mr. Naydenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u79	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva! Dear colleagues! I want you to answer the question.. Has the working prisoner acquired the right to work, because, as far as I know, his sentence is quite high and requires a certain period of time for the punishment to give him a lighter regime, with whichever one acquires the right to work? Did he acquire at that time, when he escaped, the right to work to be assigned to such a responsible place in the kitchen, this escaped prisoner? And to the Home Secretary. Minister, what exactly do you define as a human error? What do you mean, as a human error, to bring in the weapon or to allow prisoners to escape? And my other question to you: having had operational information that you were preparing an escape, what measures have you taken in particular rather than giving answers? What exactly was done, was he working with this guy, was he on a strict regime, since there is such a assumption and data that he would escape? I want you to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Naydenov! With regard to one of the escaped prisoners, I said that after there was data on him, he was suspended from work and did not do any work within the framework of the imprisonment. With regard to the second prisoner, I have requested a specific reference from his file on days and months..... how much has he endured so far, what activities has he performed? As soon as I have it, I'll give it to you as a written answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor to answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov! What do I define as a human error? I don't know if I mentioned something like that, but what human error? There is a violation of the rules here, a violation of the rules by guards, of all those involved in the chain. It's about those who aren't criminals and who aren't prisoners. No human error is involved, or at least I didn't use that term. It's just a rude violation and a violation of prison security rules and prison law. What kind of measures? You say I answer to you in general. What else can I tell you? I told you we gave the signal. The Ministry of Interior did this. Maybe we've done other things. After all, that was a year ago. The reference in front of me that I have and from which I tell you some things, and maybe not all of it should be reported because there are things that I said, and once again these two listen to us, there is no such data. If I had known that you were going to ask me what we did a year ago, when we knew, I said: we reported to the prison. They have taken measures and this Pelov, who worked outside, in the courtyard, or has performed some other duties, is no longer doing it. He's locked up inside the cell. This is the measure that I now know, and perhaps there are other conversations or things that are being done. It's definitely done. The question is what led to this and how it happened. We can't answer any more right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u84	Thank you, Minister Radev. Attitude to the answers that were given by parliamentary groups. From the parliamentary group of GERB
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs! Dear colleagues from all parliamentary groups! You know that this incident is extremely severe and, of course, it is a concern for all those who have a bearing on the country's governance and those who are MPs. Today we have complied with the desire and request of BSP colleagues to make a hearing of the ministers. You have seen that this wish was supported by the parliamentary group of GERB and by all MPs almost without exception. I believe that, in such incidents, we should not introduce a policy, but we should mobilise the entire resource of the state and, where necessary, make relevant legislative changes so that we can be more effective and not allow such cases. Since BSP colleagues brought him out as an accident that may have happened for the first time, that it never happened before in the years, I believe that the historical review that Danny Kirilov made was very clear that in the years not only in Bulgaria, but in the whole world there have been similar cases. The BSP colleagues are trying to politicize every opportunity that happens or incident that has occurred. I can remind them of the April 2014 case when you know that Shatka left the prison as well. He was on trial for serving a murder. So did Jose Gonzalez, a Guatemalan who escaped from Sofia Prison, and it entered in a blue car, with a blue lamp, with dark glass, with police officers. In this car came out these two criminals who served their time in Central Prison. Colleagues, I would like to congratulate the ministers on what they have done today to come to the Bulgarian Parliament to give the appropriate clarification. I believe that what has been taken as measures after the occurrence of this incident. First, to inform the public, to spread their photos and, of course, what Minister Radev also said. The entire resource of the criminal police is on the line, all searchers who are the best in Bulgaria and are currently working in the Ministry of Interior system are engaged. I am convinced that there are planned events that will give the result. I believe that we should not politicise such a subject, but contribute to optimising the work of the institutions and, where necessary, making relevant legislative changes. I thank my colleagues from BSP for this concern. We supported this proposal of yours. We thank the ministers for having responded and I am convinced that, after today's hearing, they have only one commitment to create the necessary organisation and to detain these individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Before I give the floor to the parliamentary group of BSP for expression of attitude, colleagues, let's welcome the students from the Primary School................................ the village of Zelena Morava, Omurtag municipality. [[Applause.]] Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister of Justice, Mr. Minister of the Interior! The debate cannot in any case be only political, but it is also political for one simple reason. I don't want my speech to sound like a line or something that's out of context. There is an institution with the Council of Europe, which is called the Torture Committee, which has written at least three reports for the last decade to the Ministry of Justice with notes to the General Directorate of Punishment. The findings in the order reports in the Bulgarian prisons are chilling. In front of me are part of the reports, I suppose Mrs. Tsacheva is familiar with them, and if this is not an illustration of the lack of policy and management capacity, I do not know what it is?! I will focus only on some of the findings. First of all, I would like to say that a Programme has been adopted by the government to improve the conditions in the prisons during the period 2011 - 2013. However, the finding within the report itself is as follows: At the present stage, the Programme is not financially secured, which calls into question the fulfilment of its objectives and of the commitments adopted by the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, related to the improvement of conditions in prisons. The shortage of targeted investments so far requires the demand and attracting additional sources of financial resources through European programmes. It would be good to inform us what was done in this direction. Whatever you inform us, there is no way to obtain a valid result because the Commission's finding of the verification, only two years later, in 2015 is even more terrifying. It reads as follows: "In the report of his visit in 2012........................................................................................................ [[a line from Minister Tsetska Tsacheva]] We'll get there by 2018, things haven't improved. In its 2012 visit report, the Committee expressed its extreme concern about the lack of progress observed in the Bulgarian prison system and stressed that this could oblige the Commission to consider and resort to the application of art. 10 of the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Humiliation or Punishment. Unfortunately, the results identified during the above visit demonstrate that small or no progress has been made in implementing the key recommendations. In Bulgarian prisons, the conditions in which prisoners reside suggest their escape, not because of another reason, but because inside the conditions of residence, because of the lack of material opportunities are in a tragic state. I would like to refer to some of the findings of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u88	Read the latest assessment from March this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u89	The material conditions in the prisons in Sofia, Burgas and Varna continue to be characterized by a deteriorating situation of destruction. Most parts of the visited institutions are not suitable for human habitation and represent... In summary of the opinion of the Committee, only material conditions in the three prisons visited can be considered to be appalling to people. I would like to draw attention to a few more findings that I cannot quote at the moment due to insufficient time. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! With regard to the regime of prisoners, the order in the Bulgarian prisons and the achievement of European security standards Bulgaria is last in the European Union. This is the result of the continued 10-year government, almost without interruption, of the current main ruling party...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u91	Why haven't you done anything about all the comments, gentlemen of GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u93	And since political responsibility is a matter of resignation, we invite you... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u94	Finish your statement, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u95	...not to be too long. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u96	Thank you. [[Mister Tsetska Tsacheva wants the floor.]] You cannot answer, even more so, that Mr. Zablyanov, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, did not express any attitude towards your answers. [[Noise and lines.]] You should have expressed your attitude, Mr. Zablyanov, to the answers. Let's move on. Before I give the floor to the next parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u97	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u98	I'll give you the floor of procedure, Mr. Zablyanov. The ensemble from the Chitalishte in the village of Tserovo and citizens are on the other balcony, they will welcome us during the holiday. [[Applause.]] You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! My attitude was towards politics, including the answers given by Mrs. Tsacheva and Mr. Radev. The answers were not convincing, there was no factology, there was no view of the conditions in the prisons where the prisoners behaved, and that two people had escaped from the Central Prison in Sofia is simply a pure coincidence, and there are not 20 as a result of what exists as a order inside the prisons. If that's not an attitude to the answers, I don't know what it is! Since you have made certain adjustments to my fellow Members before me, I would like to point out to you that an assessment of our speeches should be made only from the point of view of the Rules and not from the point of view of your subjective feeling. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I have not allowed myself to do so, I have paid attention to compliance with the Rules and I have been tolerant enough to exceed the time of your parliamentary group to ask a question. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, honored guests! You just said that you are liberally applying the hearing procedure, according to art. 113, para. 2. For this reason, dear Mr President, I will invite you to follow another rule, since the right to respect is abused and has been re-assigned to the previous phase and to ask questions and political pleadings, please apply the rule that the ministers can at any time in the plenary may be given the floor if they so request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have reason for this thing. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zablyanov! There is no question about the severity of the incident. I think that your reference to the reports in the years back to the Anti-Torture Committee, which is a structure to the Council of Europe, without taking into account the latest annual report from mid-March this year, was incorrect of you. I have answered more than once here in this Chamber, from this place, questions, including colleagues from your parliamentary group. You have not been evidently present at this parliamentary control to hear specifically in the years what has been done so far to implement the recommendations of this committee. Last autumn I met with them on a mission in Sofia and I think that you should, too, as part of the political elite and as part of the Bulgarian state, be satisfied with their findings for progress and regarding the conditions for suffering imprisonment and respect for the standards to be respected by these people. For me it is unacceptable that this topic, which is undoubtedly much more extensive, we have the opportunity to have conversations, debates with you on it, to mix with the other topic for which you specifically invited us today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u104	Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] You have no right to dodge this time, no matter how liberal we approach the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The word for attitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u105	I have a personal explanation. I was mentioned by the Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u106	She may have mentioned it to you, but this isn't a debate anymore, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u107	She turned to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u108	Please don't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u109	The minister mentioned me by name and turned to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u110	Please, Mr. Zablyanov, you are now taking your word without permission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u111	...what's more normal than that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u112	You do realize what that means from your place, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u113	From where? I'm no longer with you, where do I know?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u114	You are no longer with us, but from your place as a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u115	And where should I be aware of that, tell me, as a representative of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u116	I'm really asking you not to take the word for it, Mr. Zablyanov. Please do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tsacheva... [[speaks apart from microphones]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u118	True, but no matter how liberally we interpret the Rules of Procedure, let us not go out of a liberal line after all. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u119	Your liberal boundaries are very conservative.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u120	No, they're not, they're too wide. The United Patriarchs? It's not relevant. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Parliamentary group. I won't. Dear Minister, Dear Minister, thank you for your participation today. That concludes the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u121	Honourable Members, we are continuing the work on the agenda which we adopted at the beginning of the sitting: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW. There's a report from the Energy Commission. Please, Mr. Dobrev, present the report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u122	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Energy Act No 854-01-17, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018. At its regular meeting held on 29 March 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law supplementing the Energy Act, No 854-01-17, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. The proposed amendments to supplement the Energy Act aim at filling gaps in the legislation on the powers of the KEWRC concerning its licensing activities. The text of the newly created t. 23 in art. 21, para. 1 shall be justified on circumstances arising in relation to the capital disposal actions of commercial companies operating in the transport and distribution of electricity, heat and natural gas. The bill provides for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to have the power to authorise transactions when purchasing and selling essential parts of the capital of companies that manage strategic infrastructure for our energy system. It is essential that the purchasing companies be strategic investors that can guarantee the long-term sustainable development of the energy system in the country. The proposed changes will ensure transparency of the assets transactions of energy companies in one of the most important sectors for the Bulgarian economy. In cases of breach of the newly established provisions, the licence of the transfer or distribution company shall be withdrawn. In the course of the discussion on the Bill took the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Zhelyo Boychev and Atanas Kostadinov, who expressed support for the proposed changes and between first and second reading to be supplemented and to include criteria on the basis of which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission can implement the powers envisaged in the Bill. People's representative Bürhan Abase expressed its opinion that there is a legal vacuum and it is necessary to sign a mechanism for approving the purchase and sale of assets of companies operating in the transport and distribution of electricity, heat and natural gas. He stressed that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission could not cope with the powers envisaged by the Bill due to lack of experience and capacity for carrying out such types of activities. For this reason, the DPS parliamentary group will not support the Bill. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee with 18 votes for the Energy Act, No 854-01-17, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u123	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Before you continue with the other report on the next bill, allow me to announce that another group of students are on the balcony. They're from St. John's School. Paisii Hilendarski, village of Ablanitsa, Blagoevgrad district. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Proceed, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u124	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018. At a regular meeting held on 29 March 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov. Director of the Energy and Water Regulatory Strategies (Energy and Sustainable Energy Development) Directorate Mrs. Lucia Bakalcheva, Chief Jurissult; Ms. NEC EAD, Ms. Mariana Meteva, Director of Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Member, Mrs. Plamen Mladenovski Director of Energy Regulation and Licences, Mrs. Elena Marinova, Mrs. Elena Marinova, Chairman of the Bulgarian Energy Holding Mrs. Petyo Ivanov and Mrs. Georgiov Executive Director of Energy Director, Mr. Georgiov, Mrs. Severov, Deputy Chairman of Energys. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr....... Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Delyan Dobrev, who explained that the main purpose of the changes in the Energy Act is to implement a significant step towards liberalization of the energy market. The proposals set out in the Bill are interlinked by the World Bank report. The implementation of a transition to financial stabilisation and market reform of the energy sector. One of the measures in the World Bank's model proposes the introduction of an obligation of the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators to purchase the electricity needed for technological costs on a market basis. This approach has been implemented by many European countries and provides a prerequisite for liquidity on the electricity market, while at the same time stimulating operators to seek to reduce losses. The demand for electricity on the organised stock market by the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators is expected to be around 3.6 Another significant measure is the integration of the free market of producers whose energy is purchased at preferential prices. After the changes these producers will sell the electricity they produce on the free market through the platforms of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange and will receive a premium from the Energy System Security Fund. This measure will lead to increased competition, liquidity and efficiency in energy markets while at the same time protecting the stability of producers' revenues with contracts for the purchase of electricity. The World Bank's recommendation is the introduction of new conditions to consider a step-by-step integration of producers into the market. It is initially recommended that large producers be taken out on the free market and, at the next stage, the other smaller producers with preferential prices. In this respect, the change provides for a mechanism for introducing a premium compensation mechanism for electricity from renewable sources and from high-efficiency cogeneration produced by plants with a total installed electricity capacity of 4 megawatts and more than 4 megawatts. The premium to be paid by the Energy System Security Fund is the difference between the preferential price and the estimated market price. To this end, an obligation of the Commission for energy and water regulation shall be introduced annually by 30 June to set an estimated market price for those producers according to the type of primary energy source. The expected amount of electricity to be offered on the organised stock market is about 4 teravat hours. According to NEK EAD, the purchased energy from these producers for 2017 is just over 4 teravat hours. The range of proposed changes affects 147 power generators with a total installed capacity of 4 megawatts and more than 4 megawatts. The role of the Energy System Security Fund shall be strengthened by empowering it to apply for the costs under art. 35, para. 2, p. 3 et c. 3a to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and to collect revenue from a price. Due to the problems encountered with outstanding payments by some commercial participants from a price, a debt to the society and the need to ensure the financial stability of the Fund is introduced in a bank guarantee obligation. Traders and producers shall provide a bank guarantee and/or deposit of 150% of their highest monthly value for the previous 12 months. In the event of the correct execution of the obligation for a period of 12 months, the security shall be reduced to 100% and, in the event of the correct implementation of the obligation for a period of 24 months, the bank guarantee shall be reduced to 50%. In case of default by a trader or producer of the obligation to maintain the bank guarantee and/or deposit, the Fund shall submit to the independent transmission operator a request for its removal from the electricity market. With the proposed changes, the share of the free market will increase from 54 to 55% at this time to over 65%. For this reason, the IDE of the Energy Act introduces rules in accordance with Regulation of the European Union No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT). During the discussion the people representative Tasco Ermenkov took the attitude and expressed principled support for the proposed changes. He expressed an opinion on the need for prior notification of State aid laid down in art. 107 TFEU, as is the payment of premiums by the Fund. Mr. Ermenkov made a proposal on the introduction of a transitional test period to prepare for the transition to the new mechanism in which questions related to the system for the introduction of premiums and a mechanism to secure the Energy System Security Fund. In response to the comments made by Mr. Ermenkov, the national representative Delyan Dobrev clarified the following: after calculations, the market risk related to the difference between the estimated market price to be calculated by the Commission for energy and water regulation and the real price is between 1 and 3%, depending on the different energy sources. On the occasion of the proposal to secure the funds in the Fund, there has been no case of shortage of funds since its establishment. Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov from the Ministry of Energy, who expressed his opinion in support of the bill, took part in the bill. With regard to the notification of State aid, Mr. Nalbantov pointed out the need for a provision containing a period and amount of aid granted, as well as the authority to be the administrator of the State aid. In response, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev explained that the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act is prepared for three months, in which representatives of the Ministry of Energy, as participants in the interdepartmental working group, are aware of the need for re-notification and the relevant actions have not been taken by them. People's representative Bürhan Abase supports the proposed changes, pointing out that some of the texts will need to be refined between first and second readings, with the DPS parliamentary group actively participating with proposals. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "United patriots" the public representative Iskren Veselinov welcomed the proposals made. Mr. Kiril Domuschiev, Chairman of CRIB, who stressed the need to introduce the new mechanism as soon as possible, Mr. Vasil Velev, Chairman of AICB, Mr. Iliya Grozdanov, representative of "Kaliakra Windpower," and Mrs. Miglena Rusenova, Chairman of the Bulgarian Photovoltaic Association. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 13 votes for the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The next report will be presented after the break. There are several messages following in connection with the holidays. Dear colleagues, on the eve of the Easter holidays in the eastern couloir will be opened a Charity Bazaar organized by mothers of children with severe disabilities. The funds will be used to rehabilitate and purchase technical assistance. On the occasion of the biggest Christian holiday with Bulgarian folklore songs, we will be congratulated by the performers from the quartet "Slavey" in the Club of the National Representative. In the northern lobby will be opened a documentary exhibition with exhibits of art crafts of the Grand-Torn Chitalishte of Hope, founded in 1869. The Chitalishte, where the meetings of four great people's meetings were held. Children from the ensemble of Tserovce, from the Chitalishte in the village of Tserovo, will give away to the MPs and guests of the parliament painted by them Easter eggs. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend the events. Next we will rest, then continue our work on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u126	We continue, honourable MPs, with our work. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Minister! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov and Alexander Rumenov Nenkov on 27 March 2018. At its meeting held on 28 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov and Alexander Rumenov Nenkov on 27 March 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mrs. Lucia Bakalcheva, Chief Jurisconsult, and Mrs. Mariana Meteva, Head of Legal Management at the National Electricity Company EAD; by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Ms. Elena Marinova, Director of Legal Consult, and Mrs. Radoslav Raikov, Expert at the Legal Affairs Directorate; by the Association......................................................................................................................................................................................................... The bill was presented by Mr. Valentin Nikolov, who noted that in order to ensure free competition, reduce retail prices and increase the choice of consumers since 2007 a liberalisation policy on the electricity and natural gas market has been under way in the Republic of Bulgaria. He pointed out that the proposed bill is a continuation of the policies under way to grant more rights to consumers and to ensure a competitive environment borrowed from the World Bank model. Part of the measures in the Bill include the obligation of transmission and distribution grid operators to purchase electricity for technological costs on a market basis. It is envisaged that producers of electricity from renewable sources and high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat with a total capacity of four or more megawatts per hour are to conclude contracts whereby they will be compensated by a premium representing the difference between the estimated price and the price of the producer according to the type of primary energy source. In this respect, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission sets an annual estimated market price. The Bill proposes the premium to be paid by the Energy System Security Fund, increasing its powers and creating an obligation for commercial participants to make payments to it for a price. The proposed provisions also lay down the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market. Mr. Nalbantov expressed his support to the Bill and pointed out that it aims to switch from the model for support to a buy-in system based on a market principle. Mrs. Bakalcheva also pointed out the need to designate a body that is the administrator of state aid, such as the premium that will be paid by the Energy System Security Fund. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has indicated that they support the draft law. Mr. Mitovski and Mrs. Asimi added that they support the Bill, which aims to introduce competition between producers and traders. The representative of the "Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria" pointed out that the adoption of the bill will contribute to liberalization of electricity and natural gas markets. In the discussion took part the national representative Danail Kirilov, who expressed his support for the submitted bill. In response to his question, Mr. Nalbantov and Mrs. Meteva summarized that with the adoption of the proposed texts the cost of a price will decrease. People's representative Valentin Nikolov pointed out that he supports the need to refine some of the provisions in the Bill and added that the bill will achieve a more transparent pricing mechanism. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. These were committee reports. Posts of importers? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u129	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! As has also been mentioned in the reports, the reason of the United Patriarchs is a legal gap, which became clear in practice after the turbulent public debate related to the sale of the shares of CEZ Bulgaria. It turned out that the Bulgarian legislator has quite thoroughly defended the public interest as regards the facilities, the assets of the licensed companies, but somehow outside the scope of its attention there are still cases where the subject of a transaction are not the assets of the licencer but, in fact, the sale of the licencer himself. In fact, this could create a number of problems in the operation of the licensed company, as the owner largely defines management, i.e. the ability of such an undertaking to be managed and developed. The owner also largely determines the possibility of financing the undertaking's activities, i.e. the possibility to carry out its functions more sustainablely. Once the legislator has laid down that this infrastructure, which operates the energy and energy distribution companies, albeit their ownership, is in fact of public importance and is not merely property which can be the subject of an order, of transactions without regard to the consequences. Since the sale of part of the assets is subject to control of the KEWRC, the KEWRC must decide whether this sale does not threaten national security, whether it guarantees security of supply and whether it does not conflict with certain basic principles of public order. We believe that such a principle should be transferred in practice to the shares and shares of the companies that are licensed. This is an essential share and it allows participation in management. We defined it as 20%. Of course, it's a discussional thesis. We agree largely with the Ministry of Energy that a smaller share could be considered to be subject to authorisation by the KEWRC. We defined 20% because we took into account the fact that some of these companies on the stock exchange and hardly any small deal would be appropriate to be controlled. Of course, it's a discussion issue. We agree on stronger options of control. As for who should control these transactions and give permission for them, we believe that this must be the independent energy regulator. It is true that it has no functions to identify, for example, whether national security is threatened, but on the other hand, the regulator, as established practice when withdrawing a licence, writes the relevant persons to the competent authorities, receives an opinion and takes its decisions on the basis of these opinions. It could be thought in the direction of some more detailed regulation and some objective criteria. This, of course, we will have to carry it not only specifically on the shares or shares transactions, but also on the withdrawal of the licence, as the texts are practically the same. This, of course, may be the subject of discussions and proposals between first and second readings. We could give the KEWRC in its regulation to specify these rules, which is also a reasonable option. In this spirit, we as importers are open to all constructive proposals. I would like to thank all the political forces that supported this proposal because it really creates an opportunity for transparency and for state control over the fate of companies that are actually directly linked to the lives of each of us as consumers and with economic entities. Many times the question has been asked: Will this apply to the current deal? I can definitely answer that if this law enters into force before the sale is finalized, i.e. before the shares and, respectively, the new shareholder in the shareholder books, this provision will apply to the new acquirer of the shares and it will have to prove to the independent energy regulator whether it is capable of managing the company, whether its management endangers national security, whether it guarantees the security of supply to consumers and so on. In this regard, I believe that the bill is a good step forward. We often hear that there is no state. In fact, here we introduce more state, more state control and I am sure that this is for the good of all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Opinion of an importer under the following Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Here you are, dear Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! The liberalization of the electricity market in Bulgaria started in 2007. While at the beginning of this market the biggest energy consumers in Bulgaria, the industrial companies currently have more than 140 thousand. legal and natural persons because there are several thousand natural persons already participating in the free electricity market. It is time, under the European directives, to take the next step towards market liberalisation. This next step has been spoken of since 2015, when the World Bank was hired and it analyzed what the model should be in Bulgaria and how to continue liberalization. The model proposed by the World Bank for Bulgaria is not significantly different from what has been done for years in all the other countries of the European Union. Most simply, this model provides that producers with preferential electricity prices are mainly RES producers, as well as high-efficiency cogeneration, to sell their electricity also on the free market by receiving a discount contract or premium contract. In the specific bill, it is a premium contract for those producers who will now have 147 power producers selling their energy on the free market for electricity, selling it on the free market, then receiving a flat-rate premium from the Energy Security Fund, according to what is the source they use to produce that electricity. In addition, according to the World Bank's model, electricity distribution companies, as well as the transmission operator in the face of the ESO, which suffer annual losses on the network of 3,6 "3,8 teravat hours," to buy this electricity not as so far from NEK, but from the free market at freely negotiated prices. This is one of the first, in fact one of the main amendments to the Bill, the transmission operator and distribution companies will buy their losses from the free market. On the other hand, as I have already said, producers with preferential prices with 4 megawatts installed and more than 4 megawatts will sell their energy on the free market. Why do I say 4 megawatts and over 4 megawatts? Because this change, at least at this stage, will not affect absolutely all electricity producers with preferential prices. According to the World Bank's recommendation and our analyses, it is good for this liberalisation to take place in steps. Thus, the first step is the relatively large producers - 4 megawatts installed capacity - is an investment in the amount of millions, a large electricity producer - firstly, to go to the free market and only then expand the scope to the smaller ones. It is not appropriate for the smallest, for example, because in cases where we have 5 kilos per roof or even 200 kilos of installed capacity the investment is small, the company is very small, this change will represent a significant administrative burden. In order to pay the fixed premiums by the Energy Security Fund, all these producers are intended to conclude premium contracts with the Energy Security Fund. Those premium contracts must be concluded by 1 July 2018, with the model providing for the whole change to take place and to start operating from 1 July 2018. In response, again to the World Bank's recommendations, the role of the Electricity System Security Fund has been strengthened, and if, until now, the component of a public debt is collected at the end price of electricity by NEK, from now on this component or the collection of these funds will be transferred from NEK to the Electricity System Security Fund. The fund will raise funds, and for the smallest producers below 4 megawatts who still continue to sell their energy to NEK under their old conditions with their old contract, the Fund will make payments with NEK. In order to ensure the financial stability of the Fund, texts have been introduced which require all traders or final customers of electricity in Bulgaria to submit a financial guarantee of 150% of their highest monthly value for the previous 12 months of the component. Thus, traders plus customers who will owe this obligation to the Fund to society will be obliged to pay 150% of the highest monthly contribution for the previous 12 months. In order to provide relief to the correct companies and separate them from those who are not properly behaved on the market, we foresee that after the first 12 months for the companies that have been correct and have submitted the entire amount in due time to society, the financial guarantee will decrease from 150% to 100%, and if they are correct more than 24 months, it will decrease to 50%. The financial guarantee is necessary as we have seen that over the last year, when the funds were collected by NEK, more than 10 companies, electricity traders, delayed their payments and currently owe about 50 million. lv. NEK's. In order to avoid this problem, in fact, to prevent this problem from being transferred from NEK to the Fund and thus endanger its revenue, we provide for the Fund to require such a financial guarantee of 150%, 100% or 50%, respectively, over time, of the commitment to society. With the proposed changes the amount of free market in Bulgaria as a percentage of the total electricity consumption in the country will increase from 54 to 55%, currently around 54 to 55%, to over 65% of the electricity consumption in the country. The regulated part will remain slightly above 30% at this stage. The bill provides for a methodology by which the regulator will calculate the estimated market price. As premium contracts will fall at the estimated market price of electricity, for the next 12 months we provide that the regulator will set this reference market price for the next one-year period on the basis of the methodology, i.e. no subjectivity in the formation of the price, there will be as many objective circumstances as possible to determine that price and be as close as possible to the market price in the next 12 months. This obligation for each regulatory period, i.e. every year before 1 July or 1 July, will be set the reference market price for the next regulatory period. In this way, the fixed component, which is the premium contract that I have already mentioned, will change accordingly. Another part of the bill provides for the introduction of European rules, in fact, of the rules implementing Regulation No 1227/2011 of the European Union on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale market in energy, the so-called The logic in this is not only that it is Bulgaria's obligation as a member of the European Union, but also because after the changes of the free part of the electricity market in Bulgaria or the free electricity market in Bulgaria will grow significantly and mechanisms from the KEWRC are needed, with which the KEWRC mechanisms to control that there are no abuses on the market. In order for the KEWR to carry out these functions, additional funds are needed, so between first and second reading we are thinking about proposing texts to ensure financial independence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. And not only that, we are also considering changes in which to give some call it a test period, others say a longer grace period for producers to enter into the new premium contracts with the Energy Security Fund, which does not preclude the launch and launch of the new model from 1 July 2018. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u132	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! You heard the results of the Energy Commission meeting. Obviously, once again, we will be walking in a sense toward uniformity in terms of direction. But here the details are very important. On the first bill, I would like to focus your attention on the details that will determine our attention to the second vote and rather outline the content of what we want to say. For us, first of all, we need a more significant focus on what the purpose of this law is. It is either reforms aimed at liberalising, which is mandatory and necessary in the electricity market, or radically lowering energy market prices under the pressure of certain electricity consumers. Here, therefore, the great danger is, following liberalisation, to step over a border where we will not be effective and can ultimately achieve a fact so to say with one sentence.. can contribute to cheap exports of Bulgarian cheap electricity to other markets. I think we're going to find this focal point where that doesn't happen in the details of second reading. Now the bill, instead of a free electricity market, envisions how to say it more clearly a mandatory sale only through the exchange, the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. This is where I open a clamp. When we say colleagues, are we referring to the Romanian electricity exchange, the Austrian or some others? Because if only under and only under the market we understand the gaining of the energy exchange, I think we will have a coliseum here I will ask the Ministry to take an attitude with art. 102 as regards the Treaty on the Community. For us, the market must and may be an element of the free market, but not the only one, as you know that no matter how much we conceal this fact, if we leave it in this way, that only and only everyone is obliged to sell on the market, then we will not achieve this effect and there will be a collision in our view with European legislation. Third moment. The full implementation of the regulation is sufficient guarantee that lightening, transparency, lack of speculative transactions will be a fact. In this sense, with regard to KEWRC and with regard to overall trade, we believe that this is positive. However, we have assessed all together, including in the words of the KEWRC, that they, with this huge amount of information coming, are currently not well prepared to respond to the situation. Fourth, market integration of renewable sources and those we call high-efficiency cogeneration is the greatest value of the idea in this law. The premium contracts provided for in the Law that replace contracts for differences and preferential prices are definitely such an element. Just look at the hypothesis! We now have already been notified with regard to the RES State aid hypotheses. At the same time, assuming that in July this becomes a fact, as is the intention of the importers, we will have two mechanisms, one of which has been notified and our statement is that we must also notify the new mechanism. In this sense, the question is partly to importers and more to the Ministry what is the readiness for such notification. I will personally propose that there be some transitional period until the two notifications become valid for the system to go better. Next, because there are a lot of things I want to say, but I do not want to bore you, rather at second reading there will be serious debates. The question is why we do not release in the sense of the free market the possibility of selling it to a final customer at all. I will use, I always use a very nice Latin thought here: "Omnis determinatio est negatio" "Every definition is a restriction." In us remains the feeling that with an approach to liberalization we have the obligation to sell only and only on the Bulgarian independent exchange to move towards an over-regulation, for which I can give an example that also from Germany and with regard to the Bulgarian market, including the KEWRC does not manage to regulate certain price dynamics and thus shows its inefficiency. Or, in one sentence, on this argument, the free market for us, although we are sitting on the left, is a much more valuable achievement and market integration of RES is a much more significant event than the exclusive obligation to go through the Energy Exchange alone. To conclude: we have also stated in the Commission we support the proposals made as a direction, but now at first reading we are going to vote abstentions as a sign that we want to very seriously join together in good texts at second reading with the comments I have just presented to you. I will not hide from you that it made a strange impression in the course of the discussion in the Commission that the large representatives of the Bulgarian business failed to distinguish between a commodity having a stock price and this one deal being made through the market, but I accept that, including in a debate with them, we will convince them that the absoluteization of the exchange is not the only mechanism for the free market. Finally, I would like to say that we believe that there are mechanisms and it is flexible. I know that the so-called intra-day platform is being developed that within the day allows such trading, but let's think together about whether to behave even more liberally, even more freely, because, believe me, four teravatas are a fact. Your assessment that you have given will be the additional energy on the market. But these 4 teravas have to do with the supply of energy, and when we are talking about a public service, about an extremely significant resource, which in a sense is valid and significant for all citizens, in order to behave in a market manner, we must also try to look at demand. Only when demand and supply have any balance will you and I have done our job. Our proposals will be in this direction. With regard to the second bill, colleagues, we support it and thank our fellow Members for this proposal, because it can really fill a huge hole in Bulgarian legislation that will help us to defend a much more significant and clearer control of the state of natural monopolies, socially significant public activities. I want to give you an example and I will tell you what we offer in this direction. In 2004, when the bad state was selling, the state as a bad asset is often shared from the right, keep in mind what were the qualification requirements for the buyer of the energy distribution companies in Bulgaria. I'm going to tell you in four sentences: 7,000 first. Gigawatths sold energy through their own networks; 700 million EUR proved by the accounting balance sheet and personal capital; level of credit rating according to the Fitch, according to the Standard &amp; Poor's and the Thomson Bank; level of credit rating by the BBB; and lastly, a proven experience on a liberalised market in at least one country within the meaning of Regulation 96/92 with no less than 5% share; fifth condition....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Notice how the state then, even then, when we were anti-retentions in principle, made sure that what the buyer of CEZ would be. Unfortunately, over the years, as the moratorium period has dropped on these shares, bear in mind that what our fellow Members have proposed, the United patriots, we need to write it even more closely. Yeah, they're giving me a sign that there are more arguments. Thank you for your attention, but we support the second bill, and on the first we hope for a second reading with you to propose, and along with the Ministry, quite decent texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u135	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov, for the correct and constructive speech. I am pleased that, as always, in the Energy Committee, we have the same philosophy of changing the Law. I just want to pay attention to a few things. With regard to these 4 teravathours, I will start backwards, which come out on the free market. On the other hand, the losses of the ERPs and ESOs amount to 3.6 That is, the additional free market energy by offering is met with almost the same additional demand from the ERPs and ESOs. Regarding the reform, the aim of the reform is really to liberalise the market and implement the European rules in Bulgaria as well. In any event, this is not a price drop, and that is why we do not provide for a contract of difference, but we provide for a premium contract, because the contract of difference stimulates producers who have such a contract of difference to offer electricity at zero or negative prices simply because they will get the whole difference up to the preferential price they have. In the model we offer, they will receive a fixed premium and from this point of view will be stimulated to sell as close to the market as possible to the market price. And as to whether to sell it only through the stock exchange, you asked whether these producers could sell to the Romanian, Austrian or any other exchange, they could sell at any exchange they wanted. It is not said that it should be only the Bulgarian stock exchange through any stock exchange. But here in our group we are firmly convinced that the rule of sale should remain in the stock exchange, as this is a great achievement for lightening energy, in my opinion, because in the past we have witnessed, we have heard of sales of electricity by phone or without procedures, under opaque conditions. For the first time in Bulgaria, we have transparency in the sale of this product. From this point of view, we are firmly determined that we must maintain these rules. In addition, if it is an off-balance market and deals are entered into at a price that is not close to the market, a price that is much lower, e.g. 10 BGN. or on BGN 20, then the Energy Security Fund will also lose revenue because it receives a 5% fee from the revenues, i.e. when concluding transactions. And in such a case, even the manufacturer and the buyer will be stimulated to sell at lower than market prices, i.e. to manipulate the market, only to make a lower contribution than 5%. With regard to re-notification, I agree with you, but I believe that these rules, this model has been known for a long time, for more than two years, and I am sure that the Ministry is ready to make the re-notification in the fastest way, because this is not about a comprehensive notification of a State aid scheme, because there has already been such notification for RES. It is a question of amendment in a sense to this notification. I think there's plenty of time for re-notification. You're right that one should happen. And again, if I go back to the stock market, by the end of last year there were 5 six active electricity traders in the country. At the moment there are 58 participants registered on one market, including final customers, as you mentioned. Final customers of electricity buy energy directly from the exchange without going through a trader or intermediary, or any other; 42 registered on the second market that is currently functioning; and 20 already registered on the intra-day market, which I expect to start on 11 April. So this shows that the market has done its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u136	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I didn't interrupt. The time you've exceeded has been taken away from the group. Are there any other lines? Mr. Kostadinov, come in for the back. You don't want a doppelganger. Next statement, Mr. Ramadan Atalay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Colleagues, even if we are very few in this House, I will ask you at least this time not to act smart, but at least this time to hear me, so we don't get into this situation........................... then to wonder how to get out. I very much ask colleagues from GERB and from BSP to my arguments, if they have arguments that are against, to come out on the stand and to make a very serious debate. Because today, fellow Members, if we continue to adopt the laws from the point of view of populism and from the point of view of what happened to the sale of CEZ, and try to change the laws so as to create problems for the institutions of the state, affecting all the rules in the European Union, the European directives, violating the Energy Act, violating the Constitution for equal, private property, equal to state property, with municipal property; if all these distinctions here do not, we will have to pay very serious amounts both to CEZ and EVN and to any subsequent transaction that will happen in energy, colleagues. My request is to GERB for the fact that you made colleagues from the OP to submit this bill without having to think twice only to get out of the situation that has been created: at the moment you are conscious and to make sure that this bill is not adopted. My first argument. Don't accept it, I'm not saying it, colleagues, because the nationalists have proposed this bill. I'm shutting this thing down. I suggest you listen. See what we are doing now. We are calling on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to deal with transactions to dispose of shares or shares of the company's capital or trade transactions outside the energy market. That's out of their hands. They do not have any authority to deal with the sale and distribution of shares. The next, which is in this sense, they are a full expression of the right of free enterprise and reflect the principles for the free movement of capital under art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Right and clear. An argument you can't disprove. Now let me briefly tell you what the power of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is. The power of the regulatory authority: firstly, to create and ensure the implementation of the regulatory framework of the electricity and natural gas market, respectively, to regulate the activities carried out within that market. I don't want to read you further their next powers. Colleagues, if you would like to take a break, if you would like to gather the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, please very much, if with this philosophy, in this way proposed, this bill is adopted, the damage to the state will be very great. And I'm done with the first bill. From the DPS we will not be in agreement, from the DPS we will not support such a law, which is detrimental to all the legal, regulatory frameworks of the European Union and to a law adopted by the previous parliaments in this House. The second bill. The second is a very interesting bill, colleagues. Here we have a consistency, we are moving towards liberalisation of national markets according to the European Union. The liberalisation process has been taking place since 2015. What we have started has been launched and all of this is done according to the rules of the World Bank. This liberalisation, which we have been talking about for a long time, with the phased processes that are going on right now, we agree and we must adopt these rules. However, as they are very essential, we are changing the overall philosophy from here on about electricity trading, production, including throughout the whole stage. I will ask you, as the public discussion has been done, between first and second readings, there are certain gaps that have been made, and there are certain lobbying interests that I probably shouldn't have said, but I am convinced that when we sit between first and second readings, we will do everything possible to create the next regulatory framework and legal form for the further development of energy in Bulgaria. If I'm wrong, come and tell me. Madam President, I really propose a break so that there may be consultations between the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here's a line, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u139	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members, Dear Mr. Atalay! If there is surely someone who is complicit in the barbaric privatization of the ERPs, these are the representatives of the DPS. They were part of that government that created the entire chain of problems that we have been dealing with for almost decades. First, these companies should not have been privatized at all. If, in any way, a private initiative was put in place, either in the form of concessions or in some other form to protect the public interest, we would not be having this debate today. However, at the time the immediate interest was being looked at, it was being seen to sell the population to the state as customers, as consumers, and to guarantee certain monopolies long-term profits. Your speech is untenable for several reasons. We're talking arguments here. Firstly, there is no way to violate the Energy Act, we are amending the Energy Act. This is clear to anyone who deals with legislation. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has the right to control the sale of a separate asset to a part of the network, for example, which is private property, so we still have a breach of the Constitution, right?! No, the legislator said: this property, albeit private, was created for the benefit of society and has a special regime of use. This is actually the only one, no, not the only one, there are other such cases, but it is one of the few cases where private property can go to government by the state, just because public interest needs to be guaranteed. And in this respect, our proposal is simply a further development of the idea in the right direction. In fact, KEWRC has many tasks, but one of the main tasks is to ensure the stability of the energy system. And in fact, with our law, we allow it to implement this fundamental power more effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u141	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mr. Atalay! We are currently voting at the same time on two bills, which have nothing to do with each other, but this is the parliamentary practice, when two bills are introduced at the same time, to be considered simultaneously by the plenary and between first and second reading to be united, as we will also, hopefully by voting in the Energy Committee this afternoon. I would like to draw attention to the fact that what you specifically said was regarding the Bill of my colleague Iskren Veselinov. Regarding the bill that I and my colleagues Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov submitted, I did not hear any concrete proposals, but we as importers will also work on the texts during the parliamentary vacation. So I officially invite you, if you want, to take part in the working group in which to think together on the proposals or on additional editorials that are required in the texts. I will say in advance that one of the changes will be in the direction of giving a longer grace period for the conclusion of the contracts with the producers with preferential prices,... the premium contracts in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u142	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u143	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr. Atalay! Mr. Atalay, this is where we make the changes and here we decide basically what to do with the KEWRC in such a super-regulated market. I think that's clear. Dear Mr. Atalay, we are at the moment convinced that in art. 21, t. 23 of the Act in force and in art. 91 and 92 of Ordinance No 3 KEWRC has the power to take the attitude, but Mr. Ivan Ivanov in the very present form refuses to do so. He wants us to tell him more clearly. I believe that with these changes we will make it clear to protect the state to have a regulatory function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Kostadinov, I think that you were present yesterday at the conversation between the Minister of Finance and this committee, and then I did not want to offend anyone... I asked you not to read the Energy Act as a divorce document. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be amended as follows: 21 gives power to the KEWR to decide in the overall sale of the shares to interfere in private and legal relations, or in art. 92 has such powers. However, the Law states the following: After the deal is concluded, whether CEZ, EVN and others are sold, the main institutions that give the relevant opinion on the transaction are the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, but notice after the overall activity has ended. Once again, I am telling you, according to all the requirements of the legal norms of the European Union that we have agreed to. Before that, any intervention by parliament, any interference by the institutions in this country is considered to be an intervention in a private transaction and the consequences are very severe. That's it. And as far as the fact that the DPS was involved in the privatisation, to tell you that there is none of the DPS that has privatized. Have you heard of any hotel owners, factories, factories? I can list many others with you! But when we have privatized, we have created a energy strategy specifically for energy privatisation and I will ask you to read it. And this strategy is at the request of the World Bank. So the World Bank orders these enterprises to be privatized, then the Bulgarian government makes a Strategy. In the strategy there are a number of things where they are then described by the strategic investor to the state's possibility of certain rates of participation. But it's all written down in rules and regulations. You are now trying to do something to harm the state. Leave the DPS, leave the political forces that are currently doing wrong for one reason or another. One of them on the right say, "We want the state inside." Even though they are not convinced. The left-wing populism is shaking at the moment, the Aurora is constantly trying in some way to get into things. And you make a mistake after a mistake, a scandal after a scandal. At least don't do it this time, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u146	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any other statements? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u147	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we have already said, we are, in principle, about this bill in relation to a consistent policy for further liberalisation of energy production, energy distribution and energy sales. However, we have serious remarks which I have largely shared in the Commission. I'll introduce you to them. Firstly, we believe that the non-notification of the proposed changes before their vote by the National Assembly is contrary to European legislation and repeats the mistakes made seven years ago with the current Renewables Act. It is hardly necessary to emphasise the obvious need for notification to the European Commission, which is undoubtedly derived from the provision of art. 107 of the Treaty on European Union. The understanding expressed by the importers of the Bill that, although extremely late, notification of State aid related to the preferential prices provided for in the Energy Act of Renewable Sources 2011 excludes the need for prior notification of this bill, as demonstrated during the Energy Commission meeting, as the importers have said, is incorrect. The bill provides for a whole new structure of aid, which will be granted by determining premiums for producers of renewable energy sources and not preferential contracts, which implies a new notification of the newly envisaged State aid scheme. Even assuming that the opinion of the European Commission would be in the direction of a lack of need for a new notification, the support scheme should be submitted to the European Commission at least for assessment and opinion. And let me remind you that attempts at subsequent non-preliminary notification are not from yesterday, I have already mentioned the 2011 Renewable Energy Act. The bill was again not notified and led to more of the problems that we are currently trying to deal with. The subsequent, albeit late notification, and the European Commission's reply undoubtedly confirmed that the decision not to notify the aid at that time was incorrect. The second thing that concerns us is that reform is being carried out without any transitional period and without any preparation of participation in it. From Mr. Dobrev's line, I understand that between first and second readings will most likely anticipate such a period. I want to justify the need for this thing one more time. As with any significant change in legislation in the area of changing the market model in the electricity sector, there is a need for a transitional period of about a year, a year and a half before the effective implementation of the new model, in order to be able to smooth out any false assumptions about the model and to be able to become a sustainable better one, so it is necessary that this also happens with the new rules that we are putting into place at the moment. Moreover, such a transitional period will coincide with the need, as I mentioned, for notification of aid to the European Commission. Both things can go quite parallel, so we don't have any contradictions. Examples are many of how we introduced things gradually and gradually, either with the balancing of renewable energy sources from 2014 after several dry trainings, the rules on electricity trading, the work of the Independent Energy Exchange, the market participants in which they had the opportunity in a simulated market to verify the assumptions the model was betting on and did not come to a collapse of the electricity system. Even the individual elements and different platforms of the Independent Electricity Exchange were introduced and started working over a sufficiently remote period of time. The example of the other Member States leading in the reform of their electricity systems is also related to the envisaged sufficiently long transition periods prior to the realization of the market. The next thing that concerns us in the Bill is that it is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts, and no prior assessment of its impact has been carried out in accordance with art. 19 and the following of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law In the Commission, we talked that the three pages that were written were the most so far presented. But I believe that for such a bill this is very small. I welcome what the President of the Commission said during the meeting that a working group will be established between first and second readings to develop more detailed and to clean up those problems that exist. I really hope this will be done because this is an extremely important topic and we cannot afford to experiment where the state's electricity security is at stake. The other thing that concerns us is the unrealistic deadlines for the adoption of the regulations on the implementation of the bill and the inability to implement reform within the time until the beginning of the new regulatory period. In accordance with § 33 of the Draft Law, the regulations on the application of the Law should be aligned within three months of its entry into force. According to § 39 of the Bill, most of it shall enter into force from 1 July 2018, and at the same time § 37 provides that by 30 June 2018, producers must conclude contracts for a difference, or the so-called premium. I believe that the time limits laid down in the Draft Law on the adoption and alignment of regulations are extremely short and completely unrealistic, which makes it impossible for the implementation of the reform to take place within the framework of the new regulatory period of 1 July 2018. For example, the Bill provides for an authorisation such that the contracts, in contrast, are concluded before there are clear rules in the way in which they need to be concluded. This is a problem that must also be cleared between first and second readings in our opinion. We also have the risk of affecting the rights of investors guaranteed by the Energy Charter Treaty and the multiplication of the Bill. There is a danger that not all interests will be fully satisfied, the interests of investors in Bulgaria, as has been happening many times since 2012, because we know that we have problems. I will come to the end and look at some of the proposals that we will make. You know that in Spain and the Czech Republic there are already judgmental decisions relating to the reverse reform that have been implemented by this country and let us try to learn from the mistakes of others not to repeat them because we have bitter experience and it is not good to multiply it. Finally, I would like to commend the importers that they have taken into account the concerns of the sector and have withdrawn the proposed in the first version of the text of the new provision of art. 36th, para. 3, p. 2 of the Energy Act, under which premiums would not be payable if the producer had entered into a transaction on a stock market at negative prices. You know that in the country it could have happened not because someone wanted to sell at negative prices, but because the market would have guessed some and we would have punished investors without being guilty of this thing. Thank you for doing so. I'll just mark two or three proposals that we'll make between first and second readings. First of all, this is, as I have already said, we will want a grace period in operation. I, as far as I understand it, and the President of the Commission has agreed to this thing by the New Year not to enter the contracts as a difference, the RES premiums, so that they still have six months of opportunity to play out in practice what the sale would look like. In addition, to be able to introduce the methodology for calculating prices, regulations and all the other things that are necessary, and for God's sake, the notification so far will come out, Madam Minister, because it is your commitment, to the executive, it is not ours to just pay attention to this. The second thing we will propose: we will probably try to introduce a discussion and see if it is necessary for balancing groups only by producers to have the opportunity to go on the market, whether there should be consumers inside this thing. I mean, let's look at it, the topic of discussion is this thing we're going to see. The last thing I have a commitment to put forward as a proposal is because we are talking about protecting the interest of consumers, there will most likely be a proposal under § 18 in relation to the small RES producers. You remember when we made some changes with which we hit to a large extent the prices they were selling in my opinion in a direction that slightly exceeded their capabilities. We will abstain from voting on this bill, but we will actively participate in the changes and proposals between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Dobrev, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ermenkov, there is one thing I strongly disagree with and I would like to highlight it here, from this stands. You are talking about the risk of affecting investors' rights and you are hardly giving examples with Spain and the Czech Republic, where there are cases of investors and there are judgment decisions. What we are doing as a reform has nothing to do with what has been done in Spain and in the Czech Republic, because in these countries the real state has changed the environment by trying to reduce the revenues of these producers and to violate their rates of return, which has happened probably and therefore there are judgment sentences. That's not the point here. Here the goal is the end result to be the same again. If the preferential price of a photovoltaic is BGN 485, with the changes it will take these BGN 485, only from two components.. one is the market price of electricity, the other is the premium. The aim of the Bill.. I want to make it clear that it is not to jeopardize investors' rights. Thank you for the assessment of negative prices and I think this is the right decision. The original text wasn't good, you're right about that. Here, you see, we feel while you are still thinking about it, and before you have proposed your proposal and incorporate it immediately in the Bill, an example of how the Energy Commission works constructively. With regard to notification, I would also disagree with you, because yes, a notification is necessary, but I do not know in the history of this Parliament that there is a notification before a bill has been adopted. Both the RES Act 2007 and the RES Act 2008 and the 2011 Law were not notified in advance. Brown energy has been waiting for a 2007 notification. For eleven years, brown energy has been waiting for a notification! Nothing fatal has happened! Eleven years we've been buying this energy at higher prices than market prices without notifying state aid. Moreover, here in this case, I agree with you, and there will be a working group with regard to the postponements. For this working group, we will give a timetable, as I have already said, it will also meet during the parliamentary vacation. We will send a schedule to all MPs and at any opportunity I invite you to participate in the working group to come up with the best mechanism to give such a grace period, test period and so on, as I quote you, because the test period you used first to make this transition to be as smooth as possible. With regard to the impact assessment, yes, indeed three pages is the greatest impact assessment of the Bill. We've done our best, but there's more to be desired, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u150	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u151	The hole will be short. First, with regard to investors' interests, they probably wouldn't be threatened and would have received the same amount if they didn't have a calculated estimated price plus an add-on, but, but, but this could be achieved, I say it as another philosophy that we could do this, sales on the market and then contracts that wouldn't be certified by the KEWRC as a difference that needs to be paid in order to get that money 100% that they had before. That's the subject of another conversation. As for the notification, Mr. Dobrev, and that we have many such cases in which we have not notified, or that we have notified late and nothing fatal has happened, you will allow me to give an example of the lifestyle. You can cross a street ten times in red and nothing will happen to you, but on the eleventh time you can get pushed by a car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm not going to stop this much in a broad spectrum because my colleague in the exhibition as an importer and then as lines a lot of clarity has brought. I want to thank everyone for still accepting philosophy. Of course, there's a lot of work between first and second readings, really a lot of work. I can say that thanks to the working group, there has been extremely much work done, because it is a difficult law. It is difficult to introduce this liberalisation so as not to affect the market and at some point to prove that this market cannot act or create example non-market principles. We did something. I think for the first time we had a public discussion about a proposal that was actually made by MPs, that is, we put it on a platform of the World Energy Council and there was a sufficient amount of proposals, considerations with the Law. We've looked at them all quite carefully. Of course, some suffer development, both producers of renewable sources and distribution companies respectively. There were relevant considerations from the traders. Most of them, I'd say, were put into the Law at first reading. This shows that we are looking for some kind of consensus. We don't want to impose any particular philosophy. The most important of this philosophy is precisely this market price, which should determine the KEWRC, of course, by a methodology that we introduced and is mandatory in the regulation that the KEWRC must approve, so that all market participants are convinced that this will be the really estimated market price. Let us not forget that if there is a change with five levs in this market, i.e. the KEWRC confused with five levs from the average of this price, it will reflect no more than one percent of the total amount they receive. No more than one percent! So this error will neither be fatal nor proportionately large in relation to the amount they receive with longer-term contracts and now. I do not think that this is a big problem, but in this way we form the inability of market entities to distort the market because, if in any way we compensated them immediately or gave them immediately the differences in the Treaty of Difference, in these cases they did not have the need to be orderly market entities and would influence the market down or up, would even enter into some cartel agreements, because that would provoke them to make such cartel agreements. That's really the best thing we've ever done as a model. I would also like to draw attention to another problem that really showed traders, not only traders, all who have any obligations to the National Electricity Company at the moment, obligations to the society that they have accumulated and they actually collect from their consumers and give them respectively to the National Electricity Company. Some are motivated by the fact that they have delays in water companies, gardens and so on because they do not profit from the collection of this activity. However, due to the fact that most participants do not have such assets that can be pledged, or that the National Electricity Company will be sure to collect them. That is why there must be such a guarantee. The problem is that we need to assess between first and second readings to make an assessment of this risk not to sift enough of traders, from other brown energy producers in such a case that they remain small enough so that we again disrupt competitiveness. Perhaps a version of a decision by the Energy System Security Fund, in which, after assessing the circumstances, there will be an opportunity to postpone, will allow for a large part of the privates not to be forced out of this market and an opportunity for an oligopoly, for example. I think that, as philosophy and even as texts, this is a very good foundation to work on between first and second readings. Several options were born so that this law would enter into force at the same time the provisions and the KEWRC, respectively, after 1 July to have such an estimated market price and also to protect investors, i.e. to give them an extension of the order until the end of the year. There are different options that we've even discussed at the moment. I think it's a good option to test both the market because it's a big change for everyone. Four terawatt hours will go to this market. On top of that, the participants have no habit of selling on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. Not only that, the Fund itself is not well organised yet, there are no type contracts to offer immediately. In fact, we must provoke these processes to come true quickly, but we must always have this extension to enable the market to adapt. We have such ideas, but, of course, together I see that here we have no opposition to parties, oppositions, rulers, and should really happen. I would like to draw attention to the proposal of the United Patriarchs. There is one such proposal, which is in art. 21a of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, where acquisitions, mergers, divisions even of companies and therefore documents must be submitted to the Nuclear Regulator. This is described in the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy and is absolutely correct because given the objects that are, of course, objects of national security and not only those objects must be subject to absolute control from the point of view of ownership and from the point of view of disposal of assets. But there might be a problem here. You have to refine this bill between first and second readings, because you can get really pretty blocking deals. For example, renewables, when they are sold and this does not affect either national security or energy security, should at some point ask the Commission for energy and water regulation. First, that they do not have enough capacity and, secondly, it can be blocked by such acquisitions, changes, division and so on by companies. Or we could block the Commission on the basis of the lack of capacity, on the basis of the lack of experience in the investigation of these investors, would really lead to a major problem. In fact, this text should be very well refined. I really agree with Mr. Atalay, with the good intentions of not putting the whole system into absolute blockage. So we have a lot of work to do. I would say that all together, it is not bad to include everyone in the working group to work out the good texts so that things can happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u154	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? Mr. Dobrev, come in. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u155	Thank you, Madam President. It's not a trick to buy more time. There's just something I really don't agree with with my colleague Nikolov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u156	That leaves those doubts, but if you say so...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u157	...and it's that he didn't express himself clearly enough in terms of the market risk he was talking about. For five BGN error in the estimated price of the regulator can really get 1 or 2% lower revenues from investors. However, you have failed to say that, as can be obtained lower revenue of 1 " 2%," higher revenue of 1 "2%" can also be obtained. And not only that. At the end of the regulatory period, if the regulator has made a mistake with the estimated market price, whether we are able to set a new estimated market price each year. What I would like to stress once again is that the difference between the classic difference contract, which covers the whole difference from the preferential to the market price, whatever it is, and the premium contract, which gives a fixed premium according to the type of producer and so on for the produced megawatt electricity, is essential. It is that when you guarantee the whole difference, you stimulate the participants in this market to behave unmarketably, that is, you stimulate them to sell at any price, just because they will get their premium. And this was the preferred option even of these producers with preferential conditions.. in one model there is, yes, there is very little risk that goes in both directions. This risk is for investors and for the state because it may be that it actually paid a little more than it should, but in this case there is zero risk in the Energy Security Fund, that is, the revenue is known exactly how much it should be, the regulator calculates them, provides and these funds are there. There is 100% security for this premium component. While in the model, which covers a contract for a difference, that is, the whole amount no matter what it is, will come very quickly to deficits in the Energy Security Fund, if it were such a model, of course, and it is not one that will again lead to delayed payments, higher energy costs and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Would you like a douche? You will not take this right. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you for this debate and I would like to thank you for the bill which presented itself today to both Mr. Veselinov and the colleagues of the Political Party GERB. Of course, the Ministry of Energy with its representatives took part in the working group, which developed the changes to the Energy Act related to the full liberalisation of the electricity market. We support these changes. All that has to do with speeding up this process, we support it. You know that it has been mentioned repeatedly that it has been working since 2015 in this direction. The World Bank has prepared a model of liberalisation of the electricity market. This model, of course, has its question marks that remain. One of these questions is precisely the World Bank's recommendation on renewable energy sources to introduce the contract model in contrast to something that, for all of us, it became clear that there is no way to implement it. With the assistance and participation of all of you, it has actually been decided to introduce the model premium contract as the State aid guidelines provide. Since we have several times talked about State aid, about notification, this is indeed one of the very important issues that must be addressed, and all of us with common efforts must resolve once and for all. Because, as it has become clear, there has been no bill so far or there is no State aid granted in the field of energy that has been notified when it provides for European legislation. The only document notified as follows is the Regulation on the reduction of the burden on the industry which we notified in 2016. However, that there is no such notified document within the time limits, I believe it is due to a misunderstanding with regard to the State aid law. I want to bring clarity here, and I want to make it clear to everyone, because state aid legislation... as well as European legislation.................................................. is............. This is every single person who defines, develops, controls that type of State aid accordingly. Nowhere in the legislation is it said that this should be the executive power. There is one exception that is clearly mentioned in the Law and it is in cases where State aid is granted by an act of the Council of Ministers. Only in this case is the respective minister responsible and is the administrator of this State aid. So if the desire is for the Ministry of Energy to be the administrator of this state aid, then this must be mentioned explicitly in the Law, because the State Aid Act says who the persons are. The Ministry of Energy neither defines this State aid nor develops it nor has the function to control it, but if this is explicitly mentioned in law, the Ministry of Energy will notify this State aid. Apart from that, if the Ministry is designated as the administrator of the aid, we must also have the relevant control powers, as the administrator is also responsible. This responsibility is linked to both the determination of the aid and its granting and costing. So this is about notification. In order to be in line with European and our national legislation, ladies and gentlemen, we must, above all, respect very strictly what the Law provides, namely not to provide State aid before it is notified and approved by the European Commission accordingly. I think that in this case one of the requirements of the State Aid Act has been complied with. 30 which says that after State aid is introduced by a regulation, this regulation, its draft, before being discussed, coherent, must be submitted for an opinion to the competent authority, namely the Ministry of Finance, to rule on it. I believe that this requirement has been met and perhaps my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance will rule on this type of State aid. Another nuance with regard to State aid and it relates to the fact that the notification of RES was actually made in 2016, but keep in mind that we have notified the entire model as it is at the moment. There is no separation of individual producers of up to 4 megawatts or less than 4 megawatts. All State aid has been notified in its entirety. From now on, this whole model must be re-notified, i.e. whoever will be the administrator of the aid, must have all the parameters available. The first and most important parameter is the reference market price that the KEWRC must determine on the basis of which this premium will be determined accordingly. So whoever will be the administrator of the aid must have all these specific parameters. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is imperative that there be a postponement in this draft law. I am pleased that this has been taken as an approach which gives a clear indication that this State aid will be granted after its notification and approval by the European Commission. The second topic, which I think is very important in this bill, is related to the public supplier The national electricity company has expressed its opinion on this bill. There, what concerns NEK is related to the reorganization of contracts with producers of electricity from renewable energy sources at preferential prices. The text recorded at the present time says that as of 1 July NEK stops buying this electricity at preferential prices, but here is a nuance I want to share with you and to be clearly presented to your attention. The national electricity company has contracts in which it is very clearly stated in which cases NEK is in default. One of these cases is if he stops buying that electricity at preferential prices. I am afraid that if the text in the Bill is not more explicit, that is, to make it clear from a certain date that these contracts are terminated in connection with liberalisation, then this would create prerequisites for NEC to be subject to relevant arbitration and court cases, something that I believe none of us wants to happen. So, I think here, too, you can think in this direction. I'm glad there's gonna be a working group between first and second readings. The ministry will be actively involved, of course, in this working group, so that we can perfect the texts and move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u160	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate, we're going to vote. We are voting for a bill supplementing the Energy Act, No 854-01-17, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 8 March 2018. They voted 132 MPs: 121 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 854-01-19, tabled by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 27 March 2018. They voted 142 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PRIVAISATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. Importers are Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov on 1 March 2018. Please come in, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u161	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-15, submitted by Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs on 1 March 2018. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 14 March 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-15, submitted by Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy " Valentin Gruev" Director of the Department of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation and Zara Dobreva Director of the Department of Legal Affairs; by the Ministry of Health "Zieki Nacheva" Deputy Minister; by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency "Privatization and Post-Privatization Control" Peter Petrov Deputy Executive Director, Mikhail Vladov Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Rusi Statkov member of the Supervisory Board. The bill was presented by Mrs. Naydenova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to include in the List of Commercial Companies with more than 50% State participation in capital that are relevant for national security and medical institutions, commercial companies with more than 50% state or municipal participation in capital, which are part of the National Health Card. For the sites included in this list, the National Assembly approves a privatisation strategy. According to importers, the bill will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. In its opinion, the Ministry of Health stresses that the part of the National Health Card does not define roll call medical institutions, but sets out the specific needs of dentists and dentists in specialties to ensure that the population has access to medical care by type and level of competence. Hospital or non-hospital treatment facilities are equal regardless of their ownership. The Law on Medical Institutions has not defined on the National Health Card the role of a list of medical institutions with a view to ensuring the needs of the population. The law does not set out as a separate concept and special priority the protection of national health security, especially through measures to restrict municipal councils to take decisions to dispose of their property. The Ministry of Health notes that if the aim is for municipal hospitals not to be subject to privatisation, they should be included in the prohibition list under art. 3 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. The Ministry of Regional Development agreed without comments the Bill and made a proposal for a supplement that is outside the scope. The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control does not support the Bill, as the Annexes to the National Health Card do not specifically specify state and municipal health institutions relevant to the national security of the country. The Ministry of Economy does not support the submitted bill. The inclusion of the listed medical institutions in Annex 2 list means that they should be subject to privatization strategies by the National Assembly and not by the municipal councils that are their principal. In addition, there is no specific indication of commercial companies to be included in the list-Annex 2 to art. 35a, para. 1 of the Law. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria considers that the regulation of the activities of the health system and the extension of the scope of the national security system should take place after a broad public discussion taking into account the specifics of the property concerned. The bill does not take into account the constitutional powers of municipal councils as the principal of municipal commercial companies. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the GG of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed an opinion on the preservation of municipal hospitals until the establishment and adoption of the National Health Card. People's representative Aleksandar Sabanov expressed doubts about the possibility of adequate financial support from the municipalities for the municipal DCC. Daniela Saveklieva declares that PP GERB does not support the bill. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Zheny Nacheva. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-15, submitted by Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs on 1 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-15, submitted by Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Ilian Angelov and Georgi Yanchev Gokov on 1 March 2018. At its regular meeting held on 22 March 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-15, submitted by Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova and a group of MPs on 1 March 2018. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Valentina Naydenova. In her statement, she noted that the submitted bill aims to further develop the legal norms for privatization of state and municipal medical institutions with more than 50% state or municipal participation, or parts thereof, with the privatisation procedure linked to two things with the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and with the National Health Card. The importers offer medical establishments with more than 50% state or municipal participation, or parts thereof included in the National Health Card according to art. 30, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions, to be included in the structure of national security as a new point 16 in Annex 2 to art. 35a, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. During the discussion, the members of the Commission expressed different views on the draft proposal. The problem with the number of municipal hospitals was affected, which is excessively increased compared to the population of the country. It is found that in separate districts there are municipal medical facilities at close distances that serve a small population, have reduced medical staff, outdated material base and equipment, and are in poor financial condition. These are part of the prerequisites for draining municipal budgets. The number of municipal hospitals should be regulated and in line with the real needs of these places. These hospitals must be protected and assisted, but for this purpose we need to find the right way. The President of the Commission noted that in all the opinions received from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria (NSORB) and the Bulgarian Medical Union, there was no support for the proposal for a change in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The opinion of the Ministry of Health states that the part of the National Health Card defining the needs does not list by name medical institutions, but sets out specific needs of dentists and dentists in specialties and specialists in the professional field of health care. Therefore, the inclusion of existing health institutions in the National Health Card is related to the identification and planning of hospital beds, medical activities by level of competence of structures and specialists in order to identify and meet the needs of the population. Because the draft proposed an exception to the general order for the privatisation of medical institutions, as well as the compulsory procedure carried out by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, without taking into account the constitutional powers of municipal councils as the principal of municipal commercial companies, the opinion of NSORB in the Republic of Bulgaria states that the regulation of the activities of the health system and the extension of national security should take place after a broad public discussion and changes in the relevant laws, taking into account the specifics of the property concerned. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u164	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. On the part of the importers? Dr. Timchev, are you going to present the bill? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the fullness of the Chamber and in the absence of the Minister's chair, it is clear to me that the management's attitude towards our amended bill is clear, and our motives for amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and post-privatization control are brief and clear. The proposals for amendments and additions to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control are intended to include in the list, Annex 2 of the same Law under art. 35a, para. 1 of medical establishments, commercial companies with more than 50% state or municipal capital participation. The occasion is the launch of the privatization of municipal hospitals before the adoption of the National Health Card, which threatens national health security without being defined in a legal text the term "national health security." The failure to include the medical establishment in the National Health Card allows the owner to have the capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u166	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Statements? You have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I see that most of you look at the clock, but at the same time you do not know how many other health workers will not have lunch today in Lovech, in Vratsa, not to mention others. I therefore propose that we extend the time until the debate is concluded and vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u168	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend the working time until the end of the bill. They voted 93 MPs: 25, against 49, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. A statement? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman! I thank my fellow Members who have supported us to continue our work, and I do not thank those who did not support us, which shows how we feel about healthcare. Personally, as a doctor, I feel affected. Our state and municipalities have a huge building fund built up and designed for health purposes. A fund which, in a large part, is unusable, is not managed and is destroyed. Changes in whole health structures have occurred and continue to occur. Some SCCs have been closed due to private practitioners' relocating interests towards hiring, buying offices, in refusing shared support for proven unsuitable mega buildings and premises. Some hospital care facilities have done internal restructuring and so on. For others, this was not enough and switched to an external merger, both in Petrich and Sandanski, and closure, as in Petrich. Three directly included their hospitals on the privatization list, as in Nova Zagora. And all of this at the almost idle glance of the state, which left entirely market-based processes of restructuring and privatisation in health care, although every year the national security services report to the National Assembly on threats to the health of the population! No one took the initiative to identify the medical institutions that are founding sites in our national health security. Objects that cannot be managed to go bankrupt. Medical establishments, which must be monitored and more about their activities to be preserved, supported and developed, regardless of the type of property.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We need a new order in our national health system. It should start from the top down, and above, above all, is the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. With our proposal, we say two simple things. The first is: stop! Hold on a second! So much time has been wasted that we must now give the Minister of Health time to draw up and the Council of Ministers to confirm the new National Health Card, which is the main tool for the management of our healthcare and, respectively, our healthcare sector......................................... our national security. Secondly, because we cannot directly influence private health structures, we propose that the changes affect state and municipal commercial establishments with more than 50% participation in capital, as well as parts thereof, without canceling their privatisation. We are changing the way it can be realized, and this time it goes through national security and the National Health Card. Do not take the floor again if you at today's discussion accept our proposal, then between first and second reading we will submit a proposal to change the name of Annex 2 to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, which also concerns commercial companies with more than 50% municipal participation in capital and parts thereof. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-04.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Dear colleagues, it is approaching 2:00 p.m. according to art. 48, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we will cease working on this point. Before closing the meeting, the parliamentary control messages on April 5, Thursday, at 9.00 p.m. I. Question Debates. Debates on the inquiry by MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a policy in the field of heat supply. II. Questions and questions. 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Lalo Kirilov; and Nikolai Ivanov. 2. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer one question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Irena Anastasova; Irena Anastasova and Donka Simeonova; and Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev. 4. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; Georgi Gokov; and Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: Due to a prior commitment related to travel, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov and Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. The next regular plenary sitting on 5 April 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
