ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages: On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 109 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly " 80 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria" propose that the National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 17 January 2018, Wednesday, at 11.21 p.m., with No 854-02-5/17.01.2018. On the same day the materials were distributed one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. Honourable Members, this morning we had a Presidency Council on which I proposed that the debate on the vote be held on Tuesday 23 January 2018. The proposal was adopted. I suggest to your attention regarding the following message and in view of the requirements of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the debates on the draft decision, on the vote of no confidence, begin no earlier than three days and no later than seven days after the submission of the proposal, to adopt a decision on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of our Rules, as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 23 January 2018, at 1300 hours, with the following Agenda: Point one. Draft voting decision mistrusts the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in anti-corruption policy. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 January 2018. The vote on the Draft Decision shall be no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the so-read extraordinary plenary project on 23 January 2018, Tuesday, at 1300 hours. Vote 185 MPs: 182 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. One more message. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill for cemeteries, cemetery parks, funerals, crematoriums and funeral activities on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-85, importers are Vecdi Rashidov and a group of MPs. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON FRIENDSHIP, ADVANTAGE AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA. The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce us to the President of the Commission. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in. In connection with this point of our visit is the Ambassador of the Republic of Macedonia, His Excellency Marian Görchev. Welcome! [[Loud applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, No 702-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2017. At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, signed on 1 August 2017 in Skopje, the Republic of Macedonia. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Bulgaria follows a policy of good neighbourly and friendly relations and comprehensive cooperation with the Republic of Macedonia as an independent and sovereign state. Our relations are based on the consistent policy and continuity of all Bulgarian governments on 15 January 1992, when Bulgaria first recognised the independence of the Republic of Macedonia. A declaration was signed in Sofia on 22 February 1999 by the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, expressing the common will to develop comprehensive friendly relations and to strengthen understanding, peace and stability in the region of Southeast Europe. The declaration adopted a mutually acceptable language clause addressing the issue of language dispute in the signing of bilateral documents. This opened the way for the construction of the bilateral contractual and legal base. The conclusion of a Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation Treaty is among the foreign policy priorities of the Bulgarian state since 2012, when Bulgaria proposed the signing of this treaty as a precondition for the Bulgarian support for further progress in the European integration process of the Republic of Macedonia. The treaty, which was signed on 1 August 2017 by the prime ministers of Bulgaria and Macedonia, is a legally binding document between the two countries governing lasting and stable good neighbourly relations and the desire to develop cooperation between them. For the conclusion of the treaty was demonstrated broad parliamentary support to the Bulgarian government by all political forces with the adoption of a Declaration in support of the signing of the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia on 27 July 2017. The promotion of good neighbourly relations and inclusive regional cooperation are one of the European Union's objectives in the process of integration of the Western Balkans. The treaty lays down the basic principles on the basis of which bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia will develop, namely: respect, trust, understanding, good neighbourliness, mutual respect for the interests of the two countries and taking into account the common history that connects the two countries. The forms of cooperation between the two countries within the United Nations (UN), the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and other international organisations and forums shall be laid down. The two countries are scheduled to hold meetings between representatives of state authorities at different levels and to assist in maintaining contacts between the local authorities and the citizens of the two countries. They create prerequisites for improving economic, financial and trade relations between countries, promoting mutual investment and ensuring their protection. Support for the expansion of tourism and transport and communications, including within regional infrastructure projects, is envisaged. It regulates the strengthening of cooperation in the fields of culture, education, health, social policy and sport. An important moment is the establishment of the Joint Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Affairs. The Treaty establishes a legal basis for the implementation of joint celebrations of common historical events and personalities aimed at strengthening good neighbourly relations. There is a guarantee for non-interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and an obligation to take effective measures to prevent ill-intentioned propaganda, hatred or other actions that would harm the relations between the countries. A Joint Intergovernmental Commission is hereby established to carry out the functions of a monitoring mechanism for the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty. The Treaty is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes, 1 vote against, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, No 702-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. The second report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At its regular meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law for ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, No 702-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Ms. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Angelov, Director of the Directorate of the South East Europe and Mr. Danail Chakarov, Director of the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Treaty signed for the Republic of Bulgaria by the Prime Minister on 1 August 2017. This Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia aims to build on the 1999 Joint Declaration signed by both sides and to give binding international legal character to political commitments, adding them with new obligations for countries. The new moments included in the Treaty concern: - reporting in the preamble to the meaning of the common history of the two countries; - the establishment of an international legal guarantee for non-interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria through the provision of art. Paragraph 11 (5); - the establishment of a legal basis for the organisation of joint celebrations of common historical events and personalities; - the establishment of a Joint Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Affairs, which aims to contribute to an objective interpretation of history; - the introduction of an obligation to take effective measures to prevent ill-intentioned propaganda by institutions and agencies and to discourage activities of private entities aimed at incitement to violence, hatred or other similar actions that would harm relations between the Parties; - the establishment of a Joint Intergovernmental Commission, which will be co-chaired by the Foreign Ministers of the two countries and which will carry out the functions of a mechanism to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty. With regard to content, the Treaty consists of a preamble and 14 articles. The preamble sets out the basic principles on which bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia should be developed. These include: respect, trust, understanding, good neighbourliness, mutual respect for the interests of the two countries and accounting for the common history that connects the two countries. The importers point out that particular attention should be paid to § 5 of art. 11, which provides that the Republic of Macedonia confirms that nothing of its constitution can and should not be interpreted as representing or will ever constitute a basis for intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to protect the status and rights of non-nationals. In § 6 of art. 11 that idea shall be supplemented by stating that the Parties should take effective measures to prevent ill-intentioned propaganda. In the subsequent discussion Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Vice-President of KEVKEF, expressed gratitude for the government's contribution to the signing of the Treaty and stressed that it is highly appreciated by our European partners. The Chair of KEVKEF raised a question regarding the functioning and composition, which is intended to include the Joint Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Affairs and what work has been done on this issue since the signing of the Treaty until now. In addition to this question, Mr. Ivan Ivanov, a member of KEVKEF, asked whether there was any clarity as to what are the points at issue in the common historical events of the two countries. In response, Mrs. Zaharieva explained that history should not be politicised and should be left in the hands of the scientists who will join the Joint Committee. She said the idea was not to manipulate historical facts and this would be in the interests of both parties. The President of the Commission stressed that the executive should inform the National Assembly on the development of the objectives set in the Treaty. Ms Zaharieva assured that the MPs would be informed in due time and that the Joint Intergovernmental Commission provided for in the Treaty at political level would monitor the implementation of its provisions. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed unanimously, with 8 votes for the National Assembly, to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I'm opening the debate. Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u6	Thank you. Madam President, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The parliament is about to ratify the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. On this day, there is no room for pointless arguments, nor for over-exaltation. Whatever emotions we display in this direction, they will be equally insincere if they do not pass through the heart. However, today is a special day, different from many where we often fall into a petty world, into immense political passions, in which the opposition blames the government for unfinished business, and the government counters what they did when they were in power. Today is a day when we are trying to calm the souls of those hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians who died in the name of a world ideal - ideal, bequeathed to us by Levski and Botev, by Gotse Delchev and Dame Gruev. Against the backdrop of their victim, from the distance of modern times, experienced the historical coups of the 20th century somehow inappropriate sound the questions: Is it normal in the 21st century between two brother states not to have elementary infrastructure connections, economic relations, cultural and educational exchanges? People with the same family names and history don't know each other? Is that the ideal our ancestors fought for? In fact, who benefits from the lack of immediate friendly relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia? Certainly not the people on both sides of the border. Now, after such a journey, many probably accept the Treaty with the Republic of Macedonia as normal. The doubts of insufficient sincerity on both sides, of compromises and ambiguities, of geopolitical motives are also normal. But remember, just a few months ago signing a contract in this version was unthinkable because it slaps a sound slap on the fake cominternian and great state doctrines, on the laboratory national projects, on the attempt to search for imaginary minorities where there are none. The treaty proclaims our common history. I am convinced that the joint committee will include the most worthy scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the university circles, from the Macedonian Scientific Institute, and they, be assured, compromise with the truth will not make. The language of hatred, which gives birth to myths and feuds, a basic instrument of royal and Titova Yugoslavia, and until recently the anti-Bulgarian circles in independent Macedonia, is condemned. Institutions, schools, mass media will have to leave the language of hate. Imagine tomorrow's Macedonia when children will learn objective truth and citizens will not only reach negative news about Bulgaria. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty is not the subject of the present and the past. The contract is a pledge for the future. Don't we all want to live freely, as the Apostle said? Doesn't the common European idea create an opportunity to live without borders and to be what we feel, regardless of the name of the state? Let us give our brothers, beyond Osogovo, a chance to have their European perspective, as we have always given them a hand in the difficult times and as we always will! Let us welcome the ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Let us not accept this treaty for the end of a difficult period of our common history, but as a start for Bulgaria and Macedonia to show that the Balkans can be a place of peace, prosperity and unity! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u8	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia aims to upgrade the joint Declaration of 1999, signed by both sides, and to convey a binding international legal nature of political commitments, adding them to new obligations for countries. Signing this treaty is a historic breakthrough in the relations between the two countries. The negotiations on its signature began in the distant years 2008 and only now is the signing of the Treaty. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is welcoming the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia as a turning point in bilateral relations and in the process of accession of the Western Balkans to the European Union. Bulgaria is currently chairing the Council of the European Union and one of our main priorities is precisely the subject of the Western Balkans, of which Macedonia is part and the enlargement of the European Union. The Balkans can be consolidated on the principle of unity and tolerance. The perspective of overcoming the accumulated misunderstandings, suspicions and hostility, which often harm relations between the citizens of the two countries, is open to the two friendly countries. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is in favour of the Bulgarian government's intentions to actively assist the Republic of Macedonia in its accession to the European Union and NATO and will work to achieve these objectives. We expect this treaty to be supported by specific joint projects within the European Union and NATO to enhance connectivity and security in the region. We have repeatedly expressed the opinion that all of Bulgaria's positions in the European and foreign policy plan will be consensual and we have always worked in support of the development of the Euro-Atlantic model of Bulgaria. The Treaty on Good Neighborhood between Bulgaria and Macedonia is a turning point in relations for the entire region of the Western Balkans and an important step in the right direction on Macedonia's path to the European Union. When it comes to the good foreign policy relations of the Republic of Bulgaria and the strengthening of its strategic place in the Balkans, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are always ready to express our support. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I make one request to stop the fanfare for at least three minutes, and I express myself in a personal capacity as a MP responsible to my own conscience. We've been listening to fanfare for six months. It was no coincidence that I said the fanfare because there was a minister who brought gas into the inner pocket of his jacket and waited for him with fanfare at Sofia airport. No one remembers him anymore, except those who had somehow touched his affairs as minister at the time. Surprising is the ease with which we begin to address the most concrete questions about the Bulgarian nation, the content issues about the Bulgarian nation. From morning till night we praise our patriotism. From morning till night we declare ourselves forloiters in the Balkans. Dear colleagues, in the Treaty we sign, art. 8, p. 2 questions about the Bulgarian nation are left aside. This is not the issue of common history, our spirituality, our close ties with Macedonia. I don't even accept the notion of a relationship because it's about a people. This is about a people with a common self-consciousness, a common understanding of history and their own historical destiny! Today's political realities in the Balkans are the result of the intervention by the rude, by force, through international treaties, of the Great Powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u11	And the Comintern!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u12	Right, and the Comintern! Both the Comintern and the Atlantic Union! Today these political realities are drawn despite the will of our people from the Black Sea to the Lake of Ohrid. Despite our will, these boundaries have been drawn, divisive and destructive. What can this contract solve? Who is the enemy of our people's unity? The enemy is Macedonianism, created in Titova Yugoslavia, developed by the Comintern [[Applause from OP]] and imposed by the power of international alliances "Military and political." This is the enemy of the unity of the Bulgarian people. What does the honourable Treaty, signed by our prime minister with fanfare and built Macedonian Chetniks around it? Well, this treaty rehabilitates Macedonianism, it steps on Macedonianism. Because he admits what? The existence of two separate peoples in two languages. I'm glad he doesn't recognize the existence of two alphabets. So far, our Prime Minister's courage has reached at least the alphabet to remain common because it could be suggested and switched to Latin on one of the two sides for a more authentic sound of the Treaty. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 Our country undertakes to fight ill-intentioned propaganda. Unkind propaganda! Which, in your opinion, will be ill-intentioned propaganda, comrades, [[Elevator bell dings]] You know what? And colleagues, and gentlemen, and ladies! Do you know what would be an ill-intentioned propaganda? Putting a plate on Macedonian territory in memory of fallen Bulgarian soldiers in battle. It will not only be ill-intentioned propaganda, it will be a hostile act against which the Macedonian police can use weapons and you cannot say anything. And our fellow MPs who performed this heroism would have sacrificed in this act. Unfriendly propaganda will be someone to come out and claim that the poet Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov is not Bulgarian-Macedonian or Macedonian-Bulgarian, but is pure Bulgarian. This is going to be an ill-intentioned propaganda. Unkind propaganda would be to say that Dimitar Talev has described the history of modern Macedonia. Unfriendly propaganda will be to explain that the Miladinov brothers have collected Bulgarian folk songs and fairy tales. Unfriendly propaganda will be to explain that during the First, Balkan and Inter-Union Wars we fought for the freedom of the Bulgarian people within its historical borders. Now, this is going to be an ill-intentioned propaganda. I don't know if you're making a connection between this abstract, not to use the language of the students in the National Assembly stands, a text that is written? All of this becomes ill-intentioned propaganda in Bulgaria and in the Republic of Macedonia. And what will those who feel differently than Macedonians do there? What are they gonna do? Who's gonna protect them when we've signed this? And on top of that, we play with the fanfare! This treaty must be signed in the greatest silence! In a complete eclipse of the media, so that we are not ashamed in the coming decades and centuries, if someone lives from us to that age, because such contracts voted in this light way, without taking into account the historical burden of our nation, of our self-consciousness and of the prospect of Bulgaria's development, cut off precisely the future for the development of our nation, of our country, of our perspective to be a factor in Europe and the Balkans. Exactly like contracts! Because they are tearing up the national self-consciousness because the nation is a spirit, not workers in Europe's cheap construction. The nation is a spirit, the nation is a self-consciousness, the nation is an understanding of our own value, as a people within this whole union, and we are lightly selling all this! We sell it to the Southeast, sell it to the West, and on top of that, we explain that this is a wise state policy. This is auctioning, honourable colleagues "politically, geopolitically," and I do not want to use other qualifications "sales" from the lowest sample! It's not a state policy. And we all continue to believe that here some new Napoleon has appeared in the middle of the Balkans, drawing borders, nations and signing contracts. There's no such thing! Napoleon was low in height, we all know that, don't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u13	Welcome to Sofia!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u14	Napoleon was very short, but that didn't stop him from getting to Moscow. He's not coming. Sorry about the line, but Napoleon won't see Sophia on the map. For political reasons, he won't see her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u15	And comrades.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u16	Dear colleagues and comrades, of course, I would like to tell you that this word does not bear negative switching. Maybe we could be friends in some company sometime, you don't know. [[Noise and lines.]] Fate offers everything to the people. The way of the Treaty is necessary, such a treaty should also have several points of friendship in it that reflect our common soul, because friendship is the soul. Friendship is intimate! Friendship is not Euro-Atlantic cooperation, honourable Members. Friendship is something that you go on a long journey with one person, with one people, because you feel kinship because you have close views because you are the same. That's friendship. How can the arguments of this treaty be Atlantic?! Excuse me, the Atlantis is 3,000 kilometers away and Vardar is 300 miles away. Dear colleagues, the treaty is premature, the treaty is a hoax! The treaty is an apotheosis of the Atlantic ambitions in the Balkans at the expense of the peoples and also, as 100 years ago, a number of other contracts were signed, Bulgaria lost territory and entered into several national catastrophes. In the same way, in the same way our country is going, unfortunately, honourable Members, and we are all involved in this process and we bear our responsibility. I'm sorry if some of my colleagues have decided that with this treaty, they are facing historical injustice. They deepen it and it will return in the coming years as the philosopher of Trier said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Replies to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Do you have a line? Come in, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellency! I hoped today that at least on this issue there would be no division between the different parliamentary groups or MPs, because it is clear to everyone that such a treaty would contribute only good between the relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Once again, however, we see attempts by certain circles through certain MPs to inspire and implement, perhaps, foreign interests. Such statements, which we have just heard, contribute only and only to the benefit of serving foreign national interests, but not to the Bulgarians. Because when someone decides to read the Treaty, like the devil's gospel, he will always find reason to criticize and suspect the world conspiracy. But I'm going to add a few facts because I heard how Macedonianism was born in Titova Yugoslavia. He's not in Titova Yugoslavia! Macedonianism was born from the Comintern in 1934. I welcome the position of BSP, who want to support the Treaty, but my speech concerns those MPs from the BSP who do not want to support this treaty. Therefore, I will correct his speech with regard to the incorrect facts that he has given. I will add the following: in the Treaty it is very clear how the historical moments of the history of the Republic of Macedonia and of Bulgaria are proved, and it writes very clearly and precisely: It's written directly, "authentic documents." If it is not known to some MPs what the words "authentic documents" mean, the worse for them. I'll add a few other things. Who are the people who made this treaty accepted in Macedonia? Why have Macedonian governments boycotted and refused to accept this treaty for years? That is, they believe this treaty threatens Macedonian politics and Macedonian propaganda. That is, we are the right country at the moment to adopt this treaty and this treaty will protect both the Bulgarian interests and the Bulgarians in Macedonia. All the Bulgarians in Macedonia that I know welcome this treaty and that is enough for me, and that is what is important. The Bulgarians in Macedonia want the Bulgarian national representation to ensure that they are protected. For several months now, the Bulgarians in Macedonia have felt free citizens of the Republic of Macedonia and this treaty, accepting it unanimously in our parliament, will confirm this feeling of theirs. I'll say a few more things. A few months ago, when the new Macedonian parliament was formed, you remember the events that happened, you remember the invasion of the Macedonian parliament of citizens, of MPs from the former rulers, you remember the excesses that happened. There were a lot of people who got hurt, but two people got mostly hurt and were bled out. One is the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia Mr. Zaev, and the other is the former mayor of Struga and now MP Zenadine Sela. During the election campaign, only these two Macedonian politicians allowed themselves to talk about Bulgarians in Macedonia. Only they mentioned that in Macedonia there are Bulgarians living in TV participations and at rallies. They suffered by the former rulers who oppose this treaty, so these arguments, which someone wants to replace us, that the Bulgarian state makes a retreat from its national interests, are simply not true. They're just not true! I therefore call on you and let us all unanimously support this friendship treaty and show the Bulgarians in Macedonia, show the people who live in Bulgaria that the Bulgarian Parliament is united when it comes to the Macedonian issue. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? Admiral Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister, Your Excellency! Today is a historic day for Bulgaria. The ratification of the Treaty of Friendship with the Republic of Macedonia. Only 26 years ago in this Parliament our country recognised the Republic of Macedonia as an independent state. [[Reply.]] First to admit it! Can we go back and say, "There is no such country!" "What the BSP fellow says. He's got it! We accept that there is such a state, and those two peoples, who have been one in the past, will continue to be one, and the Treaty gives this opportunity. It gives the opportunity to stop anti-Bulgarian propaganda, speaking in Macedonia. For all these years and with all our attempts to make sure that we have a good neighbourly relationship, the opposite side had the most nasty campaign.. the only country that had such a talk against our country. Believe me, I also say this to the Ambassador of Macedonia: there have never been such feelings in the Bulgarian people, despite these stories and perhaps because we are the bigger country as well. Our people continue to love Macedonia, to love Macedonian songs, to sing them throughout Bulgaria, including Dobrudja, although we are on the other side. This treaty gives the opportunity, at last, for the government of the Republic of Macedonia to raise these questions honestly, sincerely, to gather scientists to talk about the common history, to bring out the signs in museums, in the basements which are hidden....................................who was the king of whom he was, to whom he was king. This thing won't interfere with our relationship. On the contrary, we must live together, we must live in peace, in understanding, and one day we will surely not have a limit when this country enters the European Union and then we will drop most of these concerns from colleagues. This treaty is not betrayal! On the contrary, this treaty is a historic breakthrough in relations between two brotherly peoples, in relations between two brotherly states. This treaty will enable our children, our grandchildren to live together in the future in a united Europe. It'll give everyone a chance to feel what they want. In part of Bulgaria there are Macedonians who feel that way. Dimitar Blagoev in this parliament said he was Macedonian. I don't know what we'd be talking about now if the idea of the Macedonian People's Republic had come to light in 1946. How would we accept our Bulgarians from Pirin Macedonia? What would we call them? So I congratulate everyone who has worked to achieve success by signing and ratifying this treaty in the Republic of Macedonia. I congratulate the Prime Minister, I congratulate the head of our diplomacy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because they worked on this treaty for ten years. In the previous parliament, I repeatedly asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: "Is there any progress on this treaty? " Unfortunately, the answers were: "No one! " That's why this treaty is a breakthrough, this treaty is not a betrayal. This treaty is a historic breakthrough in relations between two brotherly peoples and between two brotherly states. It will give us reason to continue to live together, to develop our relations together, both cultural and historical, and commercial and economic, and all to live in peace and understanding, and to have prosperity for our peoples. It will allow all who feel Bulgarians in Macedonia to say it freely, not to fear that they are Bulgarians and will do so. It'll give everyone a chance to say that thing and feel that way. I think the contract is really historic. There's no fanfare here, there's reality here, there's a future for our children, for our grandchildren! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u21	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. A line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a line because really the questions are very sensitive. When we speak from this tribune, each of our speeches is an official statement of the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria. We sign a treaty of friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation between two countries, but not between two peoples, and within this treaty there is talk about the citizens of two countries. Mr. Zaev himself says that we are one people. I ask you very much, when you speak here, to be careful how you speak, because when we talk about two peoples, we really cross the line that we should not cross as Bulgarian politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I can't see. A hole? I won't. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I begin with the fact that we will support the ratification of the Treaty on Good Neighborhood, Friendship and Cooperation with the Republic of Macedonia. I agree with the opinion expressed by Mr Ermenkov that we should be very careful about what language we hold here from the stands, because I am confident that the Republic of Macedonia is also watching closely what we are talking about from this tribune and with what attitude we proceed to ratification of this treaty. I think there may be no room for triumphalism at the moment, but there is room for satisfaction that ten years later, after Bulgaria initiated the signing of such a treaty, today we are about to ratify. In these ten years, numerous experts, scientists, politicians thought and reasoned over every word that was in this treaty. It's not a literary paper that someone wrote on their desk and then gave it for signing and ratification. I therefore believe that it is up to us ourselves to read this treaty and whether we see opportunities in it, whether we see in it a future for our relations, or whether we see a gap to which this Parliament is headed and which it will fall in a few minutes. I personally believe that the correct reading is the first, which does not mean that we should not be careful about how this contract will then be implemented in practice. The political change in Skopje made it possible to sign this treaty. That's an indisputable fact. Without taking any unnecessary credit, I would like to say that in these years, both in government and in opposition, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has invariably supported the Social Democrats and the leadership of the Social Democratic Party in the Republic of Macedonia. In the worst of times, when they were persecuted, crushed, threatened, accused, we and our political family were there for them and gave them the strength to really make this change. At the very least, we have a significant contribution to making them have the European support of their political family in order to fight for the principles that they are trying to implement in practice today - democracy, freedom of the media, freedom of speech, free elections and everything in which the previous leadership of the Republic of Macedonia has become a denial. We can now state that Prime Minister Zoran Zaev's ambition to move quickly the Republic of Macedonia to the European Union, to step firmly on the road to accession, will meet our support as well. We are currently planning a series of initiatives at parliamentary level, at local level, between youth organisations, which will be our contribution as opposition to the convergence between people on both sides of the border and to the strengthening of political ties. Today is the time to look forward, not so far back, to remember the lessons of the past, but to learn from them and to think about what we can do today and about the future. The treaty allows for a good foundation in our relations, but more important than the Treaty itself and the document that has been signed and which we will ratify today is how it affected the attitude, especially in the Republic of Macedonia, and does the new course, the new style of today's leadership, have a real solid base in Macedonian society? Was, as some feared, signing just a PR act by the government in Skopje, or is it a well-aware system policy that will be followed? Today, half a year later, we have every reason to believe that this is a consistent policy and that the current leadership is not afraid to stand up for it. More importantly, defending this policy did not only result in political losses in the Republic of Macedonia, but vice versa. The previous leaders of the DPMNE made the local elections in the Republic of Macedonia last year a referendum of some kind...... for.................................. and the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Co-operation with the Republic of Macedonia....................................... In fact, this was one of the reasons why VMRO DPMNE was literally removed from the local authorities in the Republic of Macedonia. This is a reason for me to believe that good relations with the Republic of Macedonia, whose Treaty is also an expressor, are a sustainable policy that will systematically be followed from now on. I will not mention in detail the series of steps that have been taken in the meantime for joint notes of historical personalities, even before the entry into force of the Treaty; the joint meeting of the two governments, when very specific initiatives have been agreed, which need to be further expanded, because it is important that people on both sides of the border see the meaning, the specific meaning of good relations between the two sides, so that this policy can be systematically upgraded. I'd like to address two questions before I'm finished. Firstly, the Joint Multidisciplinary Expert Committee provided for in the Treaty. We want its composition to be carefully selected, balanced, if possible consistent with wider circles, including with Parliament, as far as possible, to ensure that the Commission itself does not become, at least on our part, of course, we from the Macedonian side cannot have control over this, in stumbling stone, and back there we will be looking for constructive solutions in the interests of historical facts and historical truth. Secondly, I would like to recall our declaration of 26 July last year, in which we asked the Bulgarian Government periodically, at least once a year, to inform the National Assembly on the progress in the implementation or implementation of the Treaty, which we will ratify today. I think it is very important that parliaments are involved in this process, because we are the ones directly elected by the citizens of both sides and our contribution must be visible. As I said, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support ratification and we will expect the next steps by the governments of the two countries to prove that this step had a deep meaning for the future in relations between the two countries. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Mihov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, today is not the time for fanfare, and today is not the time for humiliation. Today is a time of calm, reasonable and dignified ratification of the Treaty of Friendship between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. This treaty is erotic, cracks the Berlin Wall in the Balkans. It is a blow to what we call Macedonianism, such as ideology and doctrine, separating and opposing the people of the Republic of Bulgaria and the people of the Republic of Macedonia. This is a big step towards what our ancestors have bequeathed, for which generations of Bulgarian politicians in the last 140 years have worked hard and failed to achieve. This is a step in the realization of Bulgarian national interests, the interests of all Bulgarians, no matter where they live. There's been a lot of talk here about propaganda and truth. The power of Bulgaria is in the historical truth, in the political truth, in the truth about the future. The difference between propaganda and truth is essential. This treaty puts an end to propaganda and protects the truth. This Multidisciplinary Commission will carry out its intended role if it comes to the truth. In this sense, I share the views of my fellow Members on the left that the team, the experts, must be well prepared and it must protect the truth without the defined historical, credible and truth itself. Because I can tell, and believe me, I know this, there are chambers of historical documents published in the Republic of Macedonia that protect this historical truth. We, from IMRO, have always argued that Bulgarian national interests dictate that the Republic of Macedonia be a territorial whole, democratic and friendly state. These three components have been questioned in the last 27 years. Foreign and internal forces questioned its territorial integrity. Her democracy was trampled, and friendship in Bulgaria was a national betrayal for the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. This treaty protects these three fundamental principles. Local elections were held in the Republic of Macedonia and some things have already been said about them here. Analysts summarize the political outcome of these elections. The one who speaks against Bulgaria and leads anti-Bulgarian politics loses the elections. And this is the greatest proof that the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia want friendship with the Republic of Bulgaria and this is the biggest argument against all fears that we are jumping into the abyss today. No, today we meet the great expectations of all citizens in the Republic of Macedonia, regardless of their ethnic and religious affiliation.... the Republic of Macedonia to be friendly to Bulgaria. And that is our responsibility, that is what we must do, because today, by ratifying this Treaty, we are responding not only to the wishes of our constituents who have sent us here, but also to the people of the Republic of Macedonia. That is why I appeal to support him with full consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Zaharieva, Mr. Ambassador! I wasn't going to speak, but there was a debate anyway. Since it was mentioned about the distant 1992, when we first recognized the Republic of Macedonia, I was a member of the Thirty-Sixth National Assembly, I think we are not much in this hall... Pavel Shopov was then, we recognised Macedonia in a rather unusual way. In the absence of Parliament Speaker Stefan Savov, in the absence of Foreign Minister Stoyan Ganev, God forgive them, dead, but then they were alive and flying to Bulgaria, one by plane from Berlin, in which I was, the other by plane from Strasbourg. It was not very appropriate for a parliamentary democracy not to wait for the president of its parliament and the foreign minister. However, Bulgaria, in their absence, recognised Macedonia as an act of kindness. I was very angry then as a person who understands rightly that it is not permissible in a parliamentary republic not to have the President of Parliament and the Foreign Minister and to adopt such decisions. There was a big scandal here, in this room, of Mrs. Karayancheva, as a result of which Stefan Tafrov left, who here stood as Deputy Minister. However, I believe that this was a big gesture to Macedonia and we did it with open hearts. Later, President Zhelev caused Turkey, after his meeting with Sulejman Demirel, and Russia, after his meeting with Yeltsin, to recognise Macedonia. I use the case that Mr. Ambassador is here, these good gestures of Bulgaria have not been appreciated over the years. However, I would now like to protect the Bulgarian Prime Minister because he, unlike then "January 15, 1992, remembers the date before he concluded this treaty, as it should be in a parliamentary state, here he raised the question and thanks to all the political forces he concluded this treaty. There is consensus in Bulgaria. Borisov, if he were a cunning politician, he could get away with a very simple thing: Dear Mr. Zaev, you are Prime Minister, legitimately elected, but I cannot conclude a contract with you because there is no consensus in Macedonia. You are a party that lost the parliamentary elections, and you are a prime minister because the Macedonian party turned the pancake, and you are a bit like my Oresharski back in Bulgaria. Borisov, however, did not do so, he did not get away, asked the opinion of the Bulgarian Parliament, concluded the Treaty in the name of a second time in advance of the Republic of Macedonia and in the name of the European future in the Balkans, because there is a new policy in the Balkans, because in the Balkans the prime minister of Bulgaria, the prime minister of Greece, the prime minister of Serbia and the prime minister of Romania is now the prime minister of Romania, have never shook hands together. The Bulgarian Prime Minister is one of the wires of inclusion in the Balkans and in the Western Balkans into the European Union. This cannot happen without this treaty with Macedonia. That is why I want to protect the Bulgarian Prime Minister that he did well by taking the opinion of the Bulgarian Parliament. I hope so for the famous Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u29	That's not how it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u30	I am very angry yesterday that a MEP has allowed herself to ask a question even to the Bulgarian Prime Minister what will the Bulgarian Parliament do? When and how the Bulgarian Parliament will vote cannot say anyone but these 240 MEPs in the Chamber. I congratulate Borisov on this contract, I congratulate all parliamentary groups! If we do not want to stay in the Balkan Cup and go to Europe, we must do it together with all the Western Balkans. This was a prerequisite for this treaty to happen, it was assessed, Bulgaria made a gesture to the Republic of Macedonia. Unfortunately, the Macedonian Parliament, I think, with 61 votes only ratified, but I hope that better times will come and it will happen with full consensus. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Any lines to Mr. Markov's statement? I can't see. Colleagues, any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I put to the first vote the Law on ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2017. Vote 182 MPs: for 182, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from GERB, OP and DPS.]] Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u32	Honourable Members, Madam President, procedure. Please consider the newly adopted First Voting Bill at the second reading of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Any other suggestions? I can't see. I am voting on the proposal that ratification be passed at second reading today. Vote 186 MPs: 185 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to read the second reading text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! "I'm going to on ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation between Republic of Bulgaria and Republic of Macedonia A single member. It ratifies the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, signed on 1 August 2017 in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Statements? I can't see. I put to the second vote the Bill on the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. Ratification accepted. [[Applause from GERB, OP and DPS.]] Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! I'll be very brief. I only took the floor to thank you. I thank everyone who has worked over the years for what happened today to be a fact. There is no way that Bulgaria's interests are different from having a stable, democratic and friendly Republic of Macedonia. I would also like to reassure those who have concerns about the texts of this treaty, which unfortunately coincide with the same concerns we have heard from the opposition in Macedonia, which until recently led a serious anti-Bulgarian campaign that the implementation of the Treaty continues before the Ratification. I will mention the celebration of January 13th, just a few days ago.. General celebration of Mara Buneva. You remember what happened 2007, 2008 and how many times her record was destroyed. So the general celebration of common personalities, which until recently was unthinkable, continues. I hope this happens in the future. As many MPs have also said, the anti-Bulgarian campaign is obviously no longer winning elections in the Republic of Macedonia, which gives us hope that this will be a lasting policy. I would like to thank you once again, to wish you a light job and to promise that the commitments we have made and not to engage us with this decision, but in the implementation of the National Assembly Decision, we will inform regularly about the implementation and progress of the provisions of this Treaty. Thank you and have a good day's work!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u37	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PARTICIPATION OF SECURITY. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u38	Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov and Chief Commissioner Todor Grebenarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u39	Please vote for admission. Colleagues, let's say hello to all the housewives today, you know it's Atanassovden. Be safe, very lucky and a successful year! [[Applause.]] 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, para. 3 words the order under art. 5, para. The rules on the enforcement of the law and the rules on the application of the law are replaced by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7 which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The security of the property of natural or legal persons shall be the activity of its physical protection against infringements, as well as of their prevention and crossing, and of countering an offence against a natural person at the site. (2) Property security may also include the provision of access to security facilities and/or the execution of video surveillance in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act and/or monitoring control.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u41	Mr. Nunev, that's it. First of all, let's finish this article............................................................................................ 7 which becomes Art. 11. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. First, I will put to the vote the created new Section II Security of the property of the natural or legal persons. They voted 86 MPs: 73, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 77 MPs: 22, against 50, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 7 which becomes Art. 11 on the Commission report. We have a problem with the vote. Cancel the vote! We'll vote again! Please, I'm putting to the vote the editorial of art. 7 on the Commission Report, which becomes art. 11. They voted 86 MPs: for 70, against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u42	The Commission proposes to establish new members from 12 to 16: Art. 12. (1) A procuring entity under a contract for the protection of property of natural or legal persons shall be the legal person or an adult and a person capable of being the owners or users on a legal basis of that property. (2) Where the owner of the property is a minor or an unfit person, a contracting entity under a security contract shall be the legal representative of the person. Art. 13. (1) The security of property of natural or legal persons shall be carried out by a separate team of contractors of the trader's security activities. (2) The teams for the execution of guards under para. 1 are: 1. post; 2. mobile security patrol; 3. mobile security group. (3) The security contract shall indicate the species, the number and The number of teams that will carry out the security. Art. 14. (1) The types of posts shall be: 1. post for security; 2. Post for observation. (2) The security post shall be a fixed security patrol by one or more security performers for security, prevention or violation of an offence against the protected property and/or a natural person at the site and/or carrying out and controlling an established crossing of persons and/or vehicles. (3) The watch post shall be a fixed security patrol by one or more security performers to monitor an object by video surveillance or monitoring control on a specific territory in the secure site, including timely information on movements of persons and objects, as well as taking action against the protected property and/or natural person at the site. (4) The observation under para. 3 is carried out by a special equipped indoors in the designated security area. Art. 15. (1) Mobile security patrol shall consist of one or more security performers performing their duties by moving from and to a designated location. (2) The types of mobile security patrols shall be: 1. car patrol - with motor vehicles; 2. motorpatrol - with motorcycles/mopeds; 3. Velopatrol - with bicycles; Four foot patrols. Art. 16. The mobile security group is a team with a service vehicle performing priority tasks related to timely response to security environment complications, assistance and control of other teams.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have a proposal for an editorial amendment in art. 14, para. 4 "Let's add the words "or beyond it" after "for protection of territory." This is imperative because there are times when surveillance stations are being constructed outside the territory of the secure object and this change is necessary. Please support her, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any lines to Mr. Manev? Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the supplement to art. 14, para. Four that Mr. Manoil Manev just proposed. Vote 78 MPs: 67 against 3, abstention 8. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the establishment of new members from 12 to 16 including the addition to art. 14, para. 4 adopted on a proposal from the National Representative Manoil Manev. Vote 78 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u46	The Commission proposes to set up Section III with the name of the Signal-Safety activity. Under art. 8 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The alert-security activity shall be an activity of protection against criminal violations of the property of natural or legal persons located in secure facilities where, through installation, maintenance and use of alert-security systems, surveillance of the objects is carried out and response to received signals with mobile security patrols. (2) For the implementation of the activity under para. 1 except for a license to carry out private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 3 or certificate according to the order of the ordinance under art. 2, para. 4 and permission is also required to use an individually assigned limited resource for carrying out electronic communications under the Law on Electronic Communications and/or a communication service contract. The Commission proposes to establish new members from 18 to 21: Art. 18. (1) A procuring entity under a contract for an alert-security activity on the protection of property shall be the legal person or the adult and de-equitable natural person who are owners or users on the legal basis of that property. (2) When the owner of the property under para. 1 is a minor or an unfit person, a contracting entity under a security contract under para. 1 is the legal representative of the person. Art. 19. (1) For carrying out an alert-security activity, the trader shall build or use a monitoring centre for monitoring and receiving signals from the guarded sites and the management of mobile security patrols on the basis of a contract. (2) The trader shall establish an organization for continuous service of the centre under para. 1 with contractors employed by him and/or heads of security activities. (3) For carrying out the activity under para. 1 the trader sets up teams under art. 13, para. 2, p. 2 and under art. 14, para. 1, t. 2 and determine the number of mobile security patrols according to response time. (4) The alert-security contract shall indicate the types, number and number of teams and the response time for an infringement signal received. Art. 20. (1) Security patrols under art. shall be used to respond to signals received in the monitoring centre when carrying out the alert and security activities. 15, para. 2. (2) The performers of security activities by mobile security patrols under para. 1 no other types of activity under art. 1 may be awarded. 5, para. 1 except for response to an alert for breach of a guarded object. Art. 21. (1) The alarm and security alarm systems used to carry out the alert and security activities shall be constructed in a way that ensures effective monitoring of the protected objects. (2) Objects for which requirements for the construction of the systems under para. 1 shall be constructed according to these requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Dear Members of Parliament, speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed texts and the new articles show what? First of all, that the initial submission of the text is not comprehensive, i.e. the capacity of the executive, after the relevant discussions with the industry show that there are white spots in the work of the Ministry of Interior, of those who prepare the bill, and it is not very common. On the other hand, why in the Private Security Act under art. 8, I mean, as described above in the definition, activities from another area of private security services are put in place, and why are these signals not included in the fire alarm services, since the security companies' monitoring centres themselves are getting these signals anyway? Why are all accompanying activities included as the main activity of the alarm and security? On the one hand, the legislation itself is not comprehensive, first of all, given that it will not only be in relation to private security activities, but will regulate in detail and accompanying activities, on the other hand, it is clear that this legislation, made on knee within the Commission itself, will not correspond to the real activity that needs to be regulated in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov? Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to one vote the creation of Section III by the name of "Signature-security activity', the text of art. 8 which becomes Art. 17 which the Commission proposes and the creation of new members from 18 to 21, including a text from the Commission, which was presented by the rapporteur. Vote 96 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 13. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u50	The Commission proposes to create Section IV under the name: "Self-guarding of property of persons under art. 2, para. 3.................................................................................. Under art. 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The self-guarding of property shall be the activity of its physical protection against unlawful offenses, as well as of their prevention and intersection carried out by employees of a person under art. 2, para. 3 which comply with the requirements of this Law. (2) Self-security of property may also include the provision of access to the security site and/or the execution of video surveillance in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act and/or monitoring control. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 23: Art. 23. For carrying out self-preservation the person under art. 2, para. 3 sets up teams by art. 13, para. 2. The types, number and number of teams shall be entered in the documents specified by the ordinance under art. 5, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u51	Mr. Nunev, can we stop here?! We're stopping to art. 23. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the creation of Section IV by the name of Self-Manufacture of property of persons under art. 2, para. Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 9, in the text which was presented by the rapporteur and which becomes art. 22, and the creation of a new art. 23 with a text presented by the rapporteur. They voted 102 MPs: for 86, against 6, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u52	The Commission proposes to set up Section V with the name: "Surveillance of drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The security of drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls shall be the activity of ensuring the crossing of the guarded premises, of protecting the privacy of individuals at the premises and of physical protection against the unlawful violation of the property of the sole trader or legal person, as well as of their prevention and intersection. (2) The guards under para. 1 may also include video surveillance, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act, and/or monitoring control. The Commission proposes to set up new Articles 25 and 26: Art. 25. Contractor under security contract under art. 24 is the sole trader or the legal person of the owner or user on a legal basis of the real estate in which the establishment or the hall is specifically authorised by the local authorities to carry out its business and/or licence issued by the State Gambling Commission. Art. 26. For carrying out security under art. 24 the trader shall designate teams under art. 13, para. 2, p. 1 and 3. The types, number and number of teams shall be indicated in the security contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With what activity regulated in art. 10, which becomes art. 24 is different from property security? It has so far been regulated in current legislation. Only an additional licence is created to burden companies with administrative burdens and be additionally burdened with the payment of funds. That is, once again, I remind you that this law creates conditions for increasing the administrative burden of the industry. So far, everything that has been regulated as an activity is simply signed with a further breakdown of individual licenses. Nothing more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u56	Dear colleagues! My fellow Member, this is not about any administrative burden. It's about something very important. For this new section on the security of restaurants.. Drinking, entertainment, gaming halls and so on, time has shown that it should be with particular attention. There are several reasons. One is that in every big city, in each municipality, in order to obtain an establishment license for extended working hours, municipalities have made a requirement to have security. This is in the logic of things, as people gather there, the risk is enormous, the risk is even for the guards themselves. Since this industry exists throughout the world, it has been one of the most risky, because under the influence of all sorts of things people in the establishments are euphoric, in an uncontrolled environment and there the training, selection, strategy and tactics of carrying out this security activity are special. They can only be equal to personal security, with famous movie characters and bodyguards. There's even greater risk. We therefore fulfilled a very pressing requirement of the environment to create a text, to create a separate kind of security activity that existed anyway. Because a guard guard guarding a car station, a park cannot go and guard a nightclub for many, many, many reasons. That's why there is this section, and it doesn't burden anyone. It gives the opportunity to pay particular attention to this kind of security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Manev! You must be reading different texts. What you're saying, what you're saying, it's not regulation in the law you're proposing? Not that we can't think, we've all been to nightclubs, but what you're saying from the National Assembly stands does not correspond to the texts that are being proposed. It's just an increase in administrative burden, additional repression by the state, because that's all you can do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote, first, the creation of Section V, with the name of the Food of Drinking and Entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls; second, the text of art. 10, which becomes art. 24 and was presented by the rapporteur as a text of the Commission and, thirdly, the creation of new Articles 25 and 26 with a text from the Commission presented by the rapporteur. Voted 103 MPs: 85, against 3, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u60	The Commission proposes to establish Section VI under the name: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 27. The Commission proposes to create new art. 28 and 29: Art. 28. The contracting authority under a security contract in urbanised territory shall be the mayor of the municipality within which the urban territory covered by the boundaries of the settlement or the urban entity (its construction boundaries) defined by a spatial plan is situated. Art. 29. For carrying out security under art. 27 The trader shall designate teams by art. 13, para. 2 and optimizes their number according to the boundaries of the protected urbanised territory. The types, number and number of teams shall be indicated in the security contract. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are going back to a topic that we discussed yesterday, because here is one of the clues of those, as I called them yesterday in this law. There's nothing wrong with that, we're setting up a private security operation, but at some point, what are we doing?! I feel like we're going to be conceiting the activities of the Ministry of Interior and handing them over to the private business. In this regard, I ask you to mark the article. 28 and 29 to drop out of this law at all because, in practice, with these texts, we introduce the possibility of the mayors of municipalities, as written, to start building self-security units, that is to say replacing those who were with the SUVs on the Ringway, to put them in the municipalities, and to already walk with their guards, to guard the municipal events, and the Ministry of Interior afterwards, do not give God, if there is an accident, they will become only witnesses and will record what happened. We'll be watching them on the news: the Ministry of Interior reported that you were there, and that's what you are, and that's what you are. Believe me, it is not the competence of private companies to guard mass events organised by municipalities. It is about a mass of people, for whom only and only the state can be responsible for their safety. Let's not make this gross mistake, let's not take this step that gives the state the opportunity to step aside. At least in the context of the fact that we are talking that the Ministry of Interior needs to develop, reform, be able to seal the functions of its employees and at some point you are taking away their ability to perform these functions in practice. Wait for what? The next step is in this law, with its change to enable private security guards to guard the National Assembly, the Presidency to guard, to guard the Council of Ministers, is this the next step? Well, let's close down the ministry and make it a full concession. We have already adopted the Law on concessions, which is quite controversial in my opinion, and creates, not only in my opinion, but also in the political power that I represent, an environment for corruption. It is no coincidence that next week we will discuss corruption and there we will talk very long and widely about this topic, and you are opening another door here is not a crack, it is not a hole, but literally an entire door opens so that this corruption can develop already within the Ministry of Interior. Well, what interest would they have, then, for the directors of regional directorates to give employees? They're gonna start cutbacks tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. These 1200-1300 employees who were assigned to the Ministry of Interior, what are they going to do? He, indeed, the Attorney General, as he told the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, seems to have completely confused the concept of the functioning of this ministry, because of the constant changes that you are making, and now with what is being done, you are beginning to make sense of its existence. I really wouldn't be surprised some morning here if, on entering into work, we found no employees of the National Security Service and employees of the Ministry of Interior, what about some security guard with a sign on his name?! That doesn't sound serious! And I therefore call on my fellow Members to prevail over them in common sense and Articles 28 and 29 to drop out. It is not serious and it is not normal for employees of private companies to guard mass events organised by municipal administrations. These are in most cases quite serious events that need very serious and professional security. There's no way we can agree to let this thing happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u64	Colleague, I sincerely hoped that by this law we would at least not speak untruths that had nothing to do with the texts of the Law. If you find in the text of the Law somewhere written mass events, the security of mass events in this part you are talking about, I do not know, I will make a split! [[Radio.]] The Law explicitly states: "Observation, control and response with mobile security patrols, nothing more. Nothing more! So let's not do free writings when we talk about professional laws and professional texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u65	Thank you, Mr. Manev. There are no lines to Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] You have a line? Here's a line for Mr. Manev's statement, Mr. Ivanov. Excuse me, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, if you, under urbanized territories, understand anything other than settlements... [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? Don't replicate me... You understand something other than the settlements and the events that take place in them, I really think that knowledge of geography is quite poor. Maybe you missed those classes back in the day. I'm really asking you, if you have to, here in the middle, in the Google, to check somewhere, to find out what "urbanized territory" means. And very clearly you really wrote it: "Observation, control and reaction with mobile patrols." What does it mean? Exactly controlling events that happen in urbanized territories. There is little to think about the meaning of the texts and in this regard we literally offer this article. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 27 so that, 27th, 28th, 29th, Mr. Chairman, they drop out, because that's where a real precedent is set. Please, honourable Members, those who believe that urbanised territory is not a security of events taking place on the territory of the respective municipalities, because in the next text it is written: I really appeal to you for this outrage of putting it in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Manev, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u68	The security of events is a separate kind of security activity and if we are going to have to lecture each text under this law what and where is in the Law, it is simply unserious, colleagues! We have a lot of texts to take in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this text, we have an overlap with activities related to the exercise of public authorities. This is almost the same as the protection of public order in the settlements, otherwise the term "urbanized territory" was taken from the Law on territorial and urban construction. Care must be taken to avoid entering a territory which is not part of the urbanised area and to make commitments that cannot be fulfilled. Otherwise, this is also part of the scenario to increase the administrative burden. I will tell you every time I am on the stand, because you show that you will reduce this repression of the state over business, but in fact with the legislation that you offer and accept, you increase it and, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, you create conditions to transfer responsibility and commitments to the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a task, skillfully using and manipulating the environment through the media, to local authorities. Where you feel that it is not politically beneficial for your local authorities to oppose your decisions as a party, that is, to oppose the control of all levels of power, the merger of a party with power, you are also ready through this legislation, to open this door to replace the responsibility for not dealing with the tasks of the Ministry of Interior of the local authorities, to explain that the capacity of the Ministry of Interior, according to the resources available to the state, is not sufficient and in relation to the interaction with the local authorities, the responsibility lies with the local authorities. Local elections are coming. It is clear, only that I am paying attention right here when it comes to a new security license in urbanised territories, that the Ministry of Interior as a main task has prevention and crossing crime. The fact that Bulgarian citizens are disillusioned and there is a lack of application materials or refusal of such materials, and statistics show that they reduce the crimes and maybe at the end of the mandate of Borisov 3 there will be no crimes after there are no applications, that does not mean that the Bulgarian citizens are calm and you have ensured their safety...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u71	Mr. Yankov, you're a little off topic here. Please! You're drifting slightly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u72	No, Mr. Chairman, if you wait for me to finish my speech, you will understand that I am not deviating at all from this text, because with this text you are masking political goals and covering up the incompetent leadership of the Ministry of Interior. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A line? Are there any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov for the removal of Articles 28 and 29 which the Commission proposes to create. They voted 115 MPs: 36, against 66, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to create Section VI with the name of the Security of urbanised territories and the text of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 27, which is supported by the Commission, moreover, the Commission's proposal to establish new Articles 28 and 29 with the text presented by the rapporteur. They voted 109 MPs: 86, Against 14, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u74	The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u75	We're not voting on this now, we're voting on it as art. 38, that's why I'm asking you to the next Section VII.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u76	The Commission proposes to set up Section VII with the name The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 30: Art. 30. (1) The security of events is a complex of activities aimed at ensuring the smooth and normal conduct of mass events of a short-term nature. (2) The security of events may also include the provision of crossing mode. (3) It shall be prohibited to guard events for which no authorisation has been granted under the order established therein. The Commission proposes to create new art. 31 and 32: Art. 31. The contracting authority under a contract for the protection of an event shall be the sole trader or the legal person. Art. 32. For carrying out security of events, the trader shall set up teams under art. 13, para. 2, p. 1 and 3. The types, number and number of teams shall be indicated in the security contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u77	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Another example of chaos in the legislation proposed by a political party GERB, or creating conditions for interpretation, according to who exercises power in whose hands is power. How and where is the concept of calm and normal holding of mass events interpreted? What does that mean? Who will qualify for calm and normal conduct? And who defines a short-term character? Whose hands is this? The solution to this is in whose hands? You are once again preparing an opportunity to interpret the proposed texts according to the conditions created by the particular situation, and society is on protest every day. In fact, there were nine protests a few days ago in one day and it is clear to you that this mandate, however long it lasts, because I am sure that the mandate will not be complete, will run under the banner of protesters. And these protests you are trying with the legislation to have the opportunity to exercise control, to exert pressure on a democratic right of Bulgarian citizens. Article 30, para. 2:..can also include the provision of a pass-through mode. Who's the judge of that? Who decides when an event will be organised? Who gives the prescriptions? Again, the one with the power. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Fear! You're afraid of popular discontent. Borisov's fear of 2013 The protests that led to early termination of the term of office cause you in the legislation to guarantee yourself that you will be able to suppress the people's discontent. That's not gonna happen! By applying the Law, you cannot oppose the democratic rights of our fellow citizens, for whom there are conditions to a large extent, and expect them to express the attitude towards this power... this power, which is trying to impose undemocratic rules and regulations in our relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there a line to Mr. Iankov? Are there any other statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the creation of Section VII with the name of the Security of Events, the text of art. 12, which becomes Art. 30 and was presented on a proposal from the Commission by the rapporteur and the creation of two new members: 31, 32, with texts presented by the rapporteur. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 11, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u80	The Commission proposes to set up Section VIII with the name of the Security in the transport of valuable consignments or cargo. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 33: Art. 33. (1) Security in the transport of valuable consignments or goods shall be an activity of protection, prevention and intersection of unlawful violations of money, securities, precious metals, works of art or other valuables in their transport. (2) In the transport under para. 1 is used armed with firearms guards, specially equipped transport, means of communication and other technical and security aids. The Commission proposes to establish new Articles 34 to 37: Art. 34. A procuring entity under a security contract for the transport of valuable consignments or goods shall be the owner or user on a legitimate basis of valuable consignments or goods. Art. 35. (1) Transport shall be carried out with vehicles meeting the requirements of art. 37 ownership of the trader employed or provided by the contracting entity under the security contract or by traders operating under art. 5, para. 1, t. 8. (2) In cases where transport is carried out by other means of transport, security of valuable consignments and cargo shall be organised in accordance with the regulatory requirements for the relevant mode of transport. Art. 36. (1) Security in the transport of valuable consignments or goods of up to 30 000 BGN. is carried out by a team of at least two security performers. (2) Security in the transport of valuable consignments or goods worth more than BGN 30 000. is carried out by a team of not less than three security performers. Art. 37. (1) Valuable consignments and cargo of up to 15 000 BGN are transported by means of a vehicle fitted with a permanently attached metal case or cabinet and armed guards. (2) Valuable consignments and cargo with a value of 15 000 to 30 000 BGN. are transported by cars which meet the technical requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 5, para. 4. (3) Valuable shipments and cargo worth more than BGN 30 000 are transported in specialized armored vehicles which meet the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 5, para. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 14 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the establishment of Section VIII with the name of Security in the transport of valuable consignments or goods, the text of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 33 and was presented as a proposal by the Commission and the creation of new members from 34 to 37 with a text presented by the rapporteur and the rejection of art. 14 with the argument that there is a place like a new art. Six who's already been admitted. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 1, abstention 10. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u82	The Commission proposes to establish Section IX by the name of the security of property. The Commission proposes to create new art. 38 and 39: Art. 38. (1) The security of agricultural property shall be the activity of its physical protection against infringements, as well as of their prevention and crossing, and of countering an offence against a natural person at the site. (2) The activity under para. 1 shall be carried out only with unarmed guards. Art. 39. (1) Contractor under a security contract under art. 38 is the mayor of the municipality within which the property is situated, as well as the owner or user on the legal basis of this property. (2) For carrying out security under para. 1 the trader sets up teams under art. 13, para. 2, except for the observation post, and optimizes their number according to the guarded area. The types, number and number of teams shall be indicated in the security contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u83	Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of Section IX and the creation of two new members: 38 and 39, with a text presented by the rapporteur. Vote 84 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 7. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u84	? Chapter two????????????? The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, which becomes Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u85	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, which shall become Chapter Three. Vote 88 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u86	"Section I................................................................................................... The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section I be amended as follows: Refusal to issue a licence. Under art. 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 15 to be rejected. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 40: Art. 40. A private security licence shall be issued by the Director of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Interior (MI) National Police or by an official authorised by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u87	Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the name of Section I, which the Commission proposes to amend as follows: Refusal to issue a licence. Second, the withdrawal of art. 15, thirdly, the text of Art. 16 which becomes Art. 40 and which was presented by the rapporteur. They voted 86 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 11. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u88	Under art. 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 words with the ordinance under art. 5, para. The Rules on Law Enforcement are replaced by the Rules on Law Enforcement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) For obtaining a licence to carry out private security activities the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 2, p. 1 and para. 3, p. 2 submit an application to the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior, as per the Annex. The application may also be submitted through the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, whose territory is the seat of the person as well as electronically under the Law on Electronic Governance. Documents certifying the fulfilment of the requirements for obtaining a licence shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 2, para. 4. (2) To obtain a licence, persons must: 1. are entered in the trade register, in the register of non-profit legal entities, in the BULSTAT register or in the relevant register under the national law of another Member State of the European Union, of another Member State of the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. they have no obligations within the meaning of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code; this requirement shall also apply to unlimitedly responsible partners in a command or assembly company; 3. there are no obligations towards the State or compulsory social security funds for which no deferral or deferral by the competent authority is allowed; 4. hold a model work card with a photo, a hallmark and uniform clothing of the security staff; 5. are not in proceedings /declared in liquidation or bankruptcy/; 6. have paid the specified state fee. (3) To obtain a licence, natural persons registered as sole traders, owners of sole limited liability companies, partners in limited liability companies, members of the management body of the trading company or the legal person, and unlimitedly responsible partners in a command or assembly company shall: 1. are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation; for persons who are Bulgarian citizens, this circumstance shall be established in a professional capacity; 2. are not attracted as defendants for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 3. do not suffer from mental illness; 4. have not been in the last three years prior to the date of insolvency set by the court, members of a management or control body or an unlimited liability partner in a firm for which insolvency proceedings have been opened or in the company terminated due to insolvency, if there have been unsatisfied creditors; 5. have not been in the last one year before the act of the competent authority concerned, members of a management or control body or an unlimited responsible partner in a company to which a private security licence has been revoked, unless the instrument for revocation of the licence issued has been revoked in due course. (4) The persons under para. 3 who are not Bulgarian citizens and do not have permission for permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, apply documents for verification of the circumstances referred to in para. 3 issued by a competent authority from the country in which they are established, accompanied by an official translation into Bulgarian. (5) To the application under para. 1 traders registered under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, of another Member State, of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, shall apply documents to certify those referred to in para. 2 circumstances issued by a competent authority from the country in which they are established, accompanied by an official translation into Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs for a change in art. 17, para. 1, the Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 17 against 68, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 17, which becomes art. 41 in the version of the Commission presented by the rapporteur. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u90	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 42: Art. 42. (1) Where the submitted documents are incomplete or do not certify the circumstances under art. 41, para. 2 and 3, the authority referred to in art. 40 the sole trader or legal person shall inform them in writing within 14 days of receipt. (2) The sole trader or legal person removes deficiencies in documents or presents additional documents required within 45 days from receipt of the notification under para. 1. Where, within that time limit, deficiencies shall not be removed or additionally necessary documents shall not be submitted, the licence procedure shall be terminated by order of the authority under art. 40. (3) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The authorities referred to in art. 40 inform the person of the termination of proceedings under the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) The act of termination of proceedings may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 43: Art. 43. (1) The authority referred to in art. 40 issue or refuse to grant a licence within one month of receipt of the application, respectively from the removal of deficiencies in documents or from the submission of further requested documents. (2) Within 7 days of the expiry of the term under para. 1 The authority referred to in art. 40 publishes information on the website of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior on the issue of the license. (3) The licence shall be obtained by the natural person registered as a sole trader, the legal representatives of the legal persons or by persons authorised by them with an explicit power of attorney with a notary endorsement of the claim. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20, which becomes art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The licence to carry out private security activities shall be issued without time limit. (2) The licence shall state in detail the type of activity under art. 5, para. 1 which the person is entitled to carry out, the territorial scope of the activity, data on the licence holder and the fact that it is unlimited. (3) The licence shall be issued according to a model approved by an order of the Minister of Interior. (4) The privileges of the licence shall not be subject to transfer or transfer. (5) A State fee shall be charged for the issue of a licence at a rate fixed by a tariff adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u91	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 18, which becomes Art. The new version of Art. 42 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 18 was presented by the rapporteur; Article 19, which becomes art. Art. 43................................................................................. 19 was presented by the rapporteur; and Art. 20, which becomes art. 44, as the version of Art. 20 was presented by the rapporteur. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 73 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u92	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 45: Art. 45. (1) In the event of the loss, unlawful withdrawal or destruction of the licence, the sole trader or the legal person within 7 days of the knowledge of the fact shall inform the authority referred to in Article in writing. 40, describing the facts in which this happened. (2) Within 14 days of the notification under para. 1 The authority referred to in art. 40 issues a duplicate of the license. (3) The duplicate under para. 2 shall be issued according to a model established by an order of the Minister of Interior. A State fee of an amount determined by the tariff under art. 44, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 21, which becomes Art. 45. The wording of the text on a proposal from the Commission was presented by the rapporteur. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 74, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, I declare a recess of the meeting in 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u94	Colleagues, we're continuing with the report. Please, Mr. Nunev, continue with the presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u95	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1 the words of the ordinance under art. 1 shall be inserted after the word "order." 2, para. In the application of the law, the rules on the application of the law and the rules on the application of the law shall be replaced by those laid down in the Rules on the application of the law. 2. in para. 2 after the word the order and the words of the regulation under art. 2, para. The 4s and 4s are replaced by the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 46: Art. 46. (1) The persons authorised to carry out a private security activity shall submit a declaration to the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior, through the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in whose territory they are based, if they change: 1. circumstance under art. 41, para. 2 or 3; 2. the registration of the sole trader or legal person. (2) The declaration shall be lodged within 14 days of the occurrence of the change. The changed circumstances shall be certified by the order of the ordinance under art. 2, para. 4. (3) The Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior, or an official authorised by him within 14 days of the presentation of the declaration, shall reflect the change under para. 1, t. 2 by addition to the licence issued. (4) The Appendix under para. 3 shall be issued according to a model established by an order of the Minister of Interior. A State fee of an amount determined by the tariff under art. 44, para. 5. Under art. 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Plamen Nunev and Manoil Manev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. The authority referred to in art. 40 refuse to grant a licence with a reasoned order where: 1. the existence of false data is established; 2. the sole trader or the legal person: (a) have obligations towards the State or compulsory social security funds, unless the competent authority has allowed the deferral or deferral of obligations; (b) is in proceedings/disputed in bankruptcy or liquidation; (c) carried out or carried out in the last one year a private security activity without authorisation; 3. the sole trader or the legal person as well as the unlimited responsible partners in a command company or assembly company have obligations within the meaning of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code; 4. there has been an act of refusal or revocation of a licence to carry out a private security activity issued in the last one year; 5. the natural person registered as a sole trader, the owner of a sole limited liability company, a partner in a limited liability company, a member of the management body of the trading company or the legal person, as well as an unlimited responsible partner in a command or assembly company: (a) has been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation; (b) has been brought as a defendant for a deliberate crime of a general nature; c) suffers from mental illness; (d) was in the last three years prior to the date of insolvency set by the court, a member of a management or control body or an unlimited liability partner in a firm for which insolvency proceedings have been opened, or in a company terminated because of insolvency, if there have been unsatisfied creditors; (e) has been in the last one year prior to the act of the competent authority concerned, a member of a management or control body or an unlimited partner in a company to which a private security licence has been revoked, unless the act withdrawing the licence issued has been revoked in due course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. You have a say in this? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs for amendment in art. 22. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 96 MPs: 18, against 70, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 22, which becomes Art. Article 46 and the text of Article 46 23, which becomes art. 47, which were presented by the rapporteur on the bill. Vote 91 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, which becomes Art. 48. Section II - Withdrawal of a licence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 25 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Plamen Nunev and Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1. 3 words the order under art. 5, para. The rules on the enforcement of the law and the rules on the application of the law shall be replaced by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 49: Art. 49. (1) The licence shall be revoked by the authority referred to in art. 40 with a motivated order: 1. in the cases referred to in Article 1. 47, p. 1.. 4; 2. in the cases referred to in art. 47, p. 5 if, within 30 days of the occurrence of the circumstances, the natural person does not terminate his participation in the trading company or in the legal person; 3. where private security activities do not comply with the minimum security and safety requirements of the protected sites, including the necessary technical equipment, vehicles and personnel provided for in Chapter Two; 4. where the natural person registered as a sole trader, the owner of a sole limited liability company, a partner in a limited liability company, a member of the management body of the commercial company or the legal person or any other authorised employee of the commercial company or the legal person granted to a person of the security staff of the sole trader or of the legal person a firearm without having an appropriate authorisation to carry and use; 5. when the sole trader or the legal person enters into an employment contract with a manager or a contractor of the security activity which does not meet the requirements of art. 50, para. 3 and 4 and within 30 days of the finding of the infringement did not comply with the mandatory prescription for its removal; 6. in the event of non-compliance with the requirements of this law for the appointment of a security staff if the sole trader or the legal person within 30 days of the finding of the infringement of art. 50, para. 3 and 4 failed to comply with the mandatory prescription for its removal; 7. when the sole trader or the legal person is subject to property penalties for systematic infringements on the basis of art. 72, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 74, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 77; 8. in the event of death or placement of the natural person 9. upon deletion of the entry of the sole trader from the trade register, respectively termination of the trading company or the legal person. (2) Where the licence has been issued to carry out more than one type of activity under art. 5, para. 1, his withdrawal on the grounds of para. 1, t. 3 concerns only the type of activity for which that reason arose. The licence shall be re-issued without this type of activity within 30 days of the entry into force of the order under para. 1. (3) The order for revocation of the licence may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u98	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I give you the floor for speeches? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs to replace a text in art. 25, para. 1, t. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 96 MPs: 20, against 72, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 24, which becomes Art. 48, the name of Section II, which the Commission supports and the text of art. 25, which becomes art. 49. The texts were presented by the rapporteur. Vote 100 MPs: 83 against 9, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u99	"Chapter 3.. Rights and obligations of individuals engaged in private security The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three, which becomes Chapter Four. "Section I - The rights and obligations of the natural person registered as a sole trader, member of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person or person authorised to manage and represent it. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be rejected. Under art. 26 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: ... (b) c. 6, at the end of the sentence, a dash shall be placed after the word "training" and a dash shall be added for the head of a private security activity. 2. in para. 3, p. 8, at the end of the sentence, a dash shall be placed after the word "training" and added to be the head of a private security activity. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 50. Art. 50. (1) Head or contractor of private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 1. 8 may be a person working on a principal employment of a position relevant to the activity carried out, on the basis of a contract concluded with the sole trader or the legal person. (2) Head or contractor of private security activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 9 may be a person working on a principal or additional employment relationship of a position relevant to the activity carried out on the basis of a contract concluded with the sole trader or the legal person. (3) The natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person, or another person authorised to manage and represent it may conclude an employment contract under para. 1 only with an adult and a deusable person, with no lower than secondary education, for a head or contractor of a private security activity which: 1. is a Bulgarian citizen, citizen of another Member State of the European Union, of another State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. has not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 3. is not attracted as a defendant for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 4. does not suffer from mental illness; 5. is physically clinically healthy, except in the case of art. 7); 6. holds a professional qualification by profession, a security guard acquired in an institution by the system of vocational education and training. (4) The natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing it may enter into an employment contract under para. 2 only with an adult and a deusable person, with no lower than a secondary education, for head of private security activities and no lower than a primary education for a contractor of private security activities. For the head, the person must meet the conditions of para. 3. For performer, the person must meet the conditions under para. 3, p. 1 supplied 5 as well as passed a successful course in an institution in the system of vocational education and training. (5) Before the conclusion of the contract of employment, the natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing it shall require the person under para. 1 and 2 to present: 1. a document certifying citizenship under para. 3, p. 1; 2. document for completed education; 3. evidence of criminality; 4. a service note from the District or Sofia City Prosecutor's Office at the permanent address of the person that he was not attracted as a defendant for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. medical certificate that he does not suffer from mental illness issued after examination by a physician-psychiatrist; 6. medical certificate for his physical clinical health; 7. document of professional qualification by profession.. Guardian........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4 issued by an institution of the system of vocational education and training. (6) The nationals of another Member State of the European Union, of another State, of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation shall submit documents equivalent to those referred to in para. 5 issued by a competent authority of the country concerned, accompanied by an official translation into Bulgarian. (7) The documents under para. 5, t. 3? 6 and para. 6 must be issued not earlier than 6 months before the contract is concluded. At the conclusion of the contract, the person shall provide a declaration that he has not been brought intodictment for a deliberate criminal offence of a general nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I give the floor for speeches. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we stumbled upon such suggestions. Very accurately and well the importer in the original version has described what are the requirements for a security contractor. For some reason, with a proposal between first and second readings, there appears a proposal that increases the requirements for a security contractor. Suddenly it turns out that a person who has to perform security work, understand the person who actually performs physical security should be with secondary education. Just to remind the Members of the National Assembly that, exclusively from the ruling majority, that the main task of each government, each government, is to fight unemployment. I don't have a statistic as to how many people are currently assigned to perform undergraduate security, but I don't think their numbers are very small. With the adoption of this text, the labor bureaus will surely find themselves filled with people who have so far worked this activity and at some point with our vote here, with your proposals, they will find themselves on the street. Why is that, and who needs it?! It was only in one text that people with lower secondary education can only be farts. I'm sorry, but that's pure discrimination. Why, to date, these individuals can work and be individuals carrying out security activities, and from now on they cannot be. You only align them and can only be villagers, guarding agricultural production. This, first of all, is an insult to the Bulgarian citizens, to those who are working at the moment of such an employment relationship, and a barrier is placed on the people who are looking to find work. Why do we approach it this way? I don't understand why this double archin?! We separate Bulgarian citizens from those who can work, those who cannot work. How will we fight unemployment, ladies and gentlemen? [[Noise and lines.]] You provoke me to date and ask a question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy do people actually share in this ministry categories and citizens with education for entering a security guard job? I don't see why a security guard who performs, for example, at the point of self-security, the guy made his own self-security unit to guard his property, to guard his site where he keeps his construction machines, and he should be with secondary education. First of all, it's an insult to someone with a secondary education who's only fit, you said it, for a night watchman. On the other hand, you do not allow one who for some reason failed to graduate from secondary school to not be able to work there as a night watchman. It's practically working out. Why are you doing this thing? You're generating unemployment right now. You're shaking the stability of the state! Did you realize how many people are going to be thrown out of work right now? First, at one point, you banned companies from accepting earlier texts from being able to guard their own property, to do as they have been for a self-guard, excluding those who walk like, as you call them, with their jeeps on the streets, because we have to distinguish between those who guard their own property, their own companies, and those who walk here and go around the nightclubs. You didn't make that distinction. Now, at some point, these people are being taken away from the opportunity to work. In practice, as of next week following the adoption of the Law in force, the labor bureaus will squeal from those who turn out not to meet the requirements anymore. I don't understand why this thing had to be done.! Dear colleagues, if you show some common sense, you will reject this proposal. It is wrong and it is wrong to put such barriers before Bulgarian citizens. This is pure discrimination on any grounds. Don't make that mistake! I propose an editorial change of the text,.... can conclude a contract of employment under para. 1 with only an adult and a workable person with no lower than a secondary education for the head and the word "supplier" disappears from that sentence. Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about art. 26, which becomes Art. 50, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u102	The physical person registered...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u103	After the "supplier" or "supplier" to fall, because this thing really creates incredible conditions for discrimination and I am sure that the state will be flooded with cases of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Statements? Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't think we should lower her so much and that she's responsible. I would like to remind my colleague that in Bulgaria, if you do not know, secondary education is mandatory. So they didn't bother to complete compulsory education, you say we discriminated against them. Well, let's remove all censorship, so we don't discriminate against people. There's no point in education then, according to you. [[Heckling]] Bullshit!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velchev, I am surprised by your reply, because in practice this law really reduces the activity as different activities are equalized and become on a plane. That is, those who guard individuals, events, and rural farts become a common denominator. Just to remind you that the success of the current government in finding students in order to return them to school and complete secondary education does not shine with great success. Statistics show that. Soon we received such information by looking at neither the police involved nor the school principals turned into curdaries with different orders, but with such great success they managed to return the students, mostly from minorities, unfortunately, to school, because not a small part are abroad. Here is the question: what do we do, Mr. Velchev, with those who are at work and under old law, according to old requirements, have not graduated from secondary school? Those were the laws. What do we do for them, an army of unemployed, or do we make special concentration camps for them?! I remember in 1938 in a country that is now a leading force, there was such a policy, the unfit individuals were imprisoned in labor camps. Perhaps this is a next step that will make the government close those who are not fit, who do not have the necessary censure to work there against their will and to perform some kind of labor order. Why don't we let these people work right now and continue to do their duty to the companies they're hired to and we'll send them to the employment bureau? In this way, you realize that you are burdening the state budget with unnecessary expenses that are at the back of the taxpayer and which are working? Because from importers of social security in the state budget at some point you will turn them into those who receive them. You do realize what this thing leads to, don't you? Because you're talking to me about people who are now studying, about people who are now learning about them is mandatory, but in past years it was not mandatory. We have to make a distinction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u108	For 20 years education is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u109	You are actually creating artificial unemployment in this way, creating an army of unemployed people who will come to our backs and we will wonder what to do with them here. Your Minister will wonder what to do with them, your Prime Minister, and we will ask questions about why this happened and the answers will have to be given by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs on the change in art. 26, in the part not supported by the Commission. This is point (b) of point 3. 1 and all of that. 2. They voted 105 MPs: 22, against 66, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the second proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov for change of para. 3 of art. 26, which becomes Art. 50, in the part about the educational price. They voted 107 MPs: 28 against 71, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Three, which shall become Chapter Four, Rights and obligations of individuals engaged in private security activities and the Commission proposal on Section I and the name of Section I, and the Commission shall also propose that the text of art be rejected. 26, which becomes Art. 50, and which was presented by the rapporteur. Vote 108 MPs: 87, Against 17, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u111	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 51: Art. 51. (1) The natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing it, shall inform the authority which issued the licence in writing and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of the conclusion of a contract of employment under art. 50, para. 1 and 2 within 7 days of the registration of the contract at the National Revenue Agency. The notification shall be made through the Head of Regional Administration of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, whose territory the person is working and electronically under the Law on Electronic Governance. The notification shall contain the three names, the single civil number (GNN) or the personal number of a foreigner (NHR), the employment contract number, the date of its conclusion and the period for which it was concluded. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply upon termination of the contract of employment. In such cases, the notification shall also contain the number and date of the termination order and the date from which the contract is deemed terminated. (3) The person under para. 1 keeps the notifications under para. 1 and 2, as well as the documents referred to in Article 2. 50, para. 5 and 6 of the contract of employment until 18 months after its termination and submit them to the competent authorities on request for verification. Under art. 28 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 (b) and the proposal in the rest has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 2 the words the order under art. 5, para. The rules on the enforcement of the law and the rules on the application of the law are replaced by the rules on the application of the law. 2. in para. 6, in the introductory sentence, the words "the order under art. 5, para. The rules on the enforcement of the law and the rules on the application of the law are replaced by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 52: Art. 52. (1) When organizing the security activity the person under art. 51, para. 1: 1. establish an organisation and monitor the performance of an assessment of the state and level of security of the protected sites where necessary, but at least once a year, for the results of which it approves a written protocol; 2. supervises the keeping of a register "Instructions" in the case of the undertaking of the security contract or in the case of the organisation of the self-security for the conduct of video surveillance; 3. control the storage and provision of professional firearms; 4. establish an organization and supervise the conduct of mandatory daily and periodic briefing of the security and safety guard staff, which shall be reflected in a briefing book; 5. provide for the signature of an official identification card, a distinguishing mark and uniform clothing of the security staff; 6. does not allow a person of the security staff to carry out security activities without professional qualifications or without successfully passing a course certified under art. 50, para. 5, t. 7. (2) For each object the person under art. 51, para. 1 organizes and controls the preparation and storage of the documentation as defined by the ordinance under art. 5, para. 4. (3) In the event of the conclusion or termination of a security contract under art. 5, para. 1, t. 3 faces by para. 1 within 14 days of the conclusion or termination of the authorisation shall notify the authority issuing the licence and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior through the Head of Regional Management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in whose territory the activity takes place. (4) When carrying out self-preservation under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4, the notification under para. 3 shall be carried out on the day of the actual take-over, respectively the removal of the self-guard. (5) In the event of the conclusion or termination of a security contract under art. 5, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 5 "9" the announcement under para. 3 shall be carried out within 7 days of the conclusion or termination, but not later than 48 hours before the first action in the performance of the security contract. (6) Notifications under para. 3 " 5" contain data defined by the regulation under art. 5, para. 4. (7) The documents under para. 1 and 2, as well as the notifications under para. The area under para 5 shall be kept by the person under para. 1 of the conclusion of the security contract and, in the case of self-security, from the day of its actual takeover, until 18 months after the termination of the contract, respectively after the actual taking of the security and upon request shall be submitted for verification to the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u112	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I give the floor for speeches. I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs on the amendments to art. 28. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 105 MPs: 23, against 76, abstentioned 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 27, which becomes art. 51. The text of art. 27 was presented by the rapporteur and the text of Article 27. 28, which becomes art. 52, which was also presented by the rapporteur. Vote 101 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u113	Under art. 29 has a proposal from the National Representative Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 53: Art. 53. On the faces of art. 51, para. 1 it shall be prohibited to: 1. introduce and use methods or means that endanger life, health or undermine the honour and dignity of citizens; 2. accept obligations contrary to a law or any other regulatory act to be fulfilled; 3. use uniform clothing, symbols and distinguishing marks, police lamps, masking hoods or inscriptions introduced for structural units of the Ministry of Interior or for other state bodies and showing belonging to them; 4. perform video surveillance without registration under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data; 5. prevent the state authorities in the exercise of their powers; 6. grant or assign to other persons the licence to carry out private security activities. Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 54: Art. 54. (1) The persons referred to in art. 51, para. 1 are obliged to transmit to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to the State Agency the information at their disposal, including those contained in video surveillance records, of a crime committed, committed or prepared, or a violation of public order, immediately after its knowledge and/or upon request by the relevant officials under the Act on the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency Act on National Security. (2) For the protected sites of the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence, the bearer of the information under para. 1 shall also be transmitted to the defence minister to the structures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 29, which becomes art. 53 and which was presented by the rapporteur and the text of art. 30, which becomes art. 54, also represented by the rapporteur. They voted 106 MPs: 85, against 2, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u115	Section II - The rights and obligations of the head and performers of a private security activity. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be rejected. Article 31? a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31 the words the order under art. 5, para. The rules on the enforcement of the law and the rules on the application of the law shall be replaced by the rules on the application of the law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 55: Art. 55. In carrying out their activities, the head and performers of private security activities shall be obliged to carry an official identification card with a photograph, a distinguishing mark and uniform clothing, except in the case of art. 10, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u116	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote first the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs for amendment in art. 31 and the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 20, against 69, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer concerning the name of the division in Section II "The rights and obligations of the head and the performers of private security and the text proposed by the Commission for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 55. They voted 99 MPs: 86, against 3, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u117	Article 32 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 56: Art. 56. (1) In the case of activity under art. 5, para. 1 the performers of private security activities: 1. ensure compliance with the established crossing mode of entry and exit from the guarded object and the internal order in it by: (a) verification of the identity documents of external persons and the employee's official deficiencies; (b) inspection of luggage, including by hand and metal detector frame, of motor vehicles and/or their cargo, and of their accompanying documents; (c) video surveillance; (d) monitoring control; (e) verification of the presence of explosives, weapons and prohibited substances by law by means of technical means; 2. check signals received from sites equipped with technical security systems and included in centralised and local monitoring and control systems, and check by mobile security patrols. (2) The checks under para. 1 shall be carried out in a way that does not undermine the honour and dignity of citizens. (3) By means of information boards placed in a prominent place, the citizens shall be informed of the use of technical means of monitoring and control and that upon entering and exiting the guarded object shall be subject to the checks under para. 1, t. 1. (4) The records of the technical means of video surveillance shall be kept in a register. Their destruction shall be certified by the head of security. (5) When the security is carried out with more than one security contractor, the security team shall be assigned a supervisor who organises and controls the activity. (6) The leaders and/or persons under para. 1 are obliged to provide access to the information available to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to the State Agency of National Security, including those contained in video surveillance footage, for a criminal offence or a public order violation, immediately at its knowledge and/or upon request by the relevant officials. (7) For the protected sites of the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence access under para. 6 is also provided for the structures to the Minister of Defence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, which becomes Art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I give the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for art. 32, which becomes 56, and the text of the importer for art. 33, which the Commission supports as art. Art. 33 becomes Art. 57. Voted 103 MPs: 83, against 3, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u119	Article 34 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 58: Art. 58. (1) The security staff of the sole trader or legal person shall retain a person in the area of the guarded site: 1. when committing a crime or immediately after it has been committed in the area of the guarded object; 2. when the person poses a danger to the life or health of those in the area of the guarded object, to the person who is personally guarded or harms the protected property by his actions. (2) After the detention of a person under para. 1 immediately inform the police authorities at the location of the site and carry out their orders. In the case of security of sites of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army are also notified to the Ministry of Defence. (3) A protocol shall be drawn up for the transfer of the person in custody to the police bodies containing: 1. own, fatherly and surname of the maker and his office; 2. date and time of drawing up the minutes; 3. date, time and place of detention; 4. a description of the circumstances in which the person was detained; 5. own, paternal and family name, EGN/LCH, permanent or current address/address of residence of the detained person if the performer of the security activity has the opportunity to identify these data after detention; 6. a description of the apparent state of the person detained; 7. the explanations or objections of the person detained, if any; 8. own, fatherly and family name of witnesses (if any), EGN/LCH, permanent or current address/address of residence if the performer of the security activity has the opportunity to identify these data. (4) The minutes shall be drawn up in three copies and signed by the compiler and by a police officer. One of the copies shall be made available to the police authorities, the co-founder's second, and the third, to the person in custody. Article 35 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35, which becomes art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The security staff of the sole trader or legal person shall be entitled to use physical force only where this is absolutely necessary when holding a person in the cases referred to in art. 58, para. 1. (2) The use of physical force shall take into account the particular situation, the nature of the offence and the personality of the offender. (3) The physical force of use shall take all measures to protect the life and health of those against whom it is directed. (4) The use of physical force shall be suspended immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved. Article 36 supposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 60: Art. 60. (1) The security staff of the sole trader or legal person shall be entitled to use assistance exceptionally in: 1. detention of a person in the cases referred to in Article 1. 58, para. 1; 2. the conditions of inevitable defence and extreme necessity within the meaning of the Penal Code. (2) Aids within the meaning of para. 1 are: handcuffs; rubber, plastic, assault and electroshock batons and utensils. (3) The use of aids shall take into account the particular situation, the nature of the offence and the personality of the offender. (4) The auxiliary means shall take all measures to protect the lives and health of the persons against whom they are directed. (5) The use of aid shall be suspended immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u120	I say, Mr. Nunev, let's stop here, let's not start with art. 37 so there's no confusion. I give the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 34, which becomes art. 58, which was presented by the rapporteur; the version of art. 35, which becomes art. 59 presented by the rapporteur; and the version of art. 36, which becomes art. 60 presented by the rapporteur. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u121	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I propose an extension of the working hours until the Law is passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u123	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Manev to extend the working hours until the adoption of a second reading of the Law. Vote 77 MPs: 57 against 7, abstention 13. [[Replications from the Chamber: Details.]] Honourable Members, there is no quorum for the adoption of the proposal. [[Heckling]] The proposal has not been accepted. I'm announcing a re-voting procedure. Please vote regime. Vote 89 MPs: 68 against 13, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please, come in. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u124	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 61. Under art. 38 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 62: Art. 62. (1) The security of the sole trader or legal person shall be entitled to use firearms as a last resort under the conditions of inevitable defence and extreme necessity within the meaning of the Criminal Code. (2) When using a weapon, the person shall be obliged to do his utmost to preserve the life of the person against whom he is directed and not to endanger the life and health of others. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39, which becomes art. 63. Under art. 40 has a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 64: Art. 64. In carrying out private security activities of the members of the security staff of the sole trader or legal person, it shall be prohibited to: 1. provoke to commit offences; 2. intervention in the settlement of collective labour dispute in the guarded site; 3. obstruction of state or local authorities in the exercise of their powers; 4. carrying out actions limiting the rights and freedoms of citizens, except in cases under this law; 5. transfer of professional firearms, official card, distinguishing mark or uniform clothing to another person; 6. disclosure of facts and circumstances for the secure establishment representing personal data or classified information; 7. use of other aids other than those referred to in art. 60, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. leaving the guarded site during working hours; 9. carrying out the activity after the use of alcohol and/or other tranquilizers or narcotics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u125	Mr. Nunev, I suggest that this is as far as there are a lot of editorial notes from the committees. I give the floor for speeches on the proposed texts. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 37, Art. Art. 38, which becomes art. Art. 62, Art. 39, which becomes art. Art. 63, Art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 64. Vote 91 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41, which becomes art. 65. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish art. 66: Art. 66. (1) In the event of disasters and accidents, persons engaged in private security activities in the affected territories shall carry out tasks assigned to them by the official managing the rescue activities and the activities to address the hazards to the population. (2) In the event of a terrorist act or threat of a terrorist act, individuals engaged in private security activities shall act in advance in accordance with the relevant Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior plan specific to each site. (3) In the event of an anti-terrorism operation, individuals engaged in private security activities in the area of the operation shall act according to art. 39, para. 6 of the Law on Counterterrorism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u127	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Please vote on the following Articles: Article 41, which becomes art. Art. 65, and the newly created art. 66. Vote 91 MPs: 80, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u128	"Chapter 4 "Integrate with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior ". The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four, which becomes Chapter Five. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 67. Art. 67. (1) The Board for Cooperation on Private Security Affairs, hereinafter referred to as the Council of the Ministry of Interior, shall be established at the Directorate-General for National Police. It shall consist of a Chair, Deputy Director of the Directorate, and six members "three authorised representatives of private security associations and three staff of the Directorate appointed by order of its Director. (2) Persons under art. 2, para. 2 and 3 who are not members of associations of individuals engaged in private security activities may submit a written application to the President for participation in meetings of the Council without voting rights in order laid down by the internal rules under para. 3, p. 1. (3) The Council shall: 1. adopt internal rules for its activities; 2. discusses issues related to administrative regulation and administrative control of private security activities and proposes measures to resolve them; 3. propose specific forms of cooperation and interaction between the police authorities and individuals engaged in private security activities and take into account the results thereof. (4) The Council shall be convened at least once every three months by its Chair. (5) The meetings of the council shall be deemed to be regular if they are attended by more than half of the members of the council. Decisions shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present. (6) The President shall appoint a secretary responsible for organising the work of the Council. (7) The technical and business services of the work of the Council shall be carried out by the Directorate General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior. Under art. 43 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 68: Art. 68. Individuals engaged in private security activities may establish associations that: 1. protect the interests of their members and support their activities; 2. assist the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security and the Military Police Office at the Minister of Defence; 3. refer to the control bodies for detected violations of this law; 4. empower their representatives to participate in the council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u129	So far, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I take the floor on Chapter Three, art. 42, which becomes 67, and the next ones too. Here I am impressed, of course, you have changed the original text and you have recorded that three authorised representatives of a private security association are included in the Advisory Council. [[GERB's line.]] I'm reading the final text, Mr. Manev, don't replicate me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u131	Can we not have a dialogue in this room? Mr. Ivanov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u132	Representatives of an association of persons and three employees of the Directorate, three representatives of an association. What are you doing? You, by this law, determine how many associations there will be in the country. Why just three? In what order will you determine these three? How does this work? It's a form of lobbying. Why didn't you write their names directly inside of which associations the three representatives would be?! I'm amazed at this thing. In the original text it was pure form lobbying. 15 percent of licensed entities to have in them, and now we have made them three. What is that thing?! I didn't think we could get here and more in the text of the Law to determine how many people would enter. Only by name that you didn't define them. If you want to add text inside para. 1, Finally, that these three persons are designated by name in the Minister's regulation, which you wanted very much to exist, to take note of them from now on and to know their people, to be calm, to organize them. Why are we doing this thing? I really don't understand. In this order, I propose that we directly change the title of Chapter 3 and not to be involved with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to be involved with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with private security. We've already made them a nearly subordinate structure. They won't do their job, private companies will do it to them, so I'm making an editorial proposal better to name it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u133	Chapter Five, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u134	For Chapter 4 not to be involved with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to be involved with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with private security companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u135	Do you make an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u136	Yeah, sure. It sounds better in the context of what...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u137	Can you repeat that on the microphone?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u138	Yes, I propose to become an interface between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and private security companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u139	With the private security companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u140	Yeah, it's for the best. And let's put it in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 the names of the three authorised representatives of the associations shall be laid down in the Minister's decree. That's good and the most correct would sound that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u141	I accept the first proposal, Mr. Ivanov. The second cannot be accepted because importers have to make a proposal for names and they are not known.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u142	In my opinion, as the text is written, they are already known. That's three of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u143	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u144	Next thing I know, it's in art. 44 according to the original importer, which remained the person carrying out private security activities, are entitled to information from the Ministry of Interior about the criminogenic situation. What a volume...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u145	We're not discussing him right now, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u146	Didn't we read it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u147	No. To art. 43, we're debating it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u148	I apologize. It is extremely unpleasant, and here we see that exactly three authorised representatives have been identified. Why and how, in what order? I'm under the impression that they're pre-famous, and you'll have to tell us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague, it sounds very good and so populistic what you said, only that's not true. Three authorised representatives of an association, i.e. each association must appoint three representatives to participate and otherwise open without any restrictions. In relation to determining which associations are and which are not, it does not exist at all in the text. There is even a text in which it is said that they can attend and participate, to be members of this council and persons who are not members of any associations. This is referred to in para. 2:? who are not members of a private security association may submit a written application to the President for participation in the meeting of the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Manev. A line to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, I have a feeling that other than geography classes are missing the classes in Bulgarian grammar. I read carefully: The President is composed of the Vice-Director of the Directorate, and six members, three authorized representatives of private security associations and three employees of the Directorate appointed by order of its Director. What could be clearer than that? What you're trying to explain to us is grammatically, I can't tie him to what he wrote, you know? Please read it carefully and see what this is about. It is precisely and clearly written: "Three authorised representatives of associations of persons." There's nothing to think about. If you want to change it in some way, not to be six, not to be limited members, or to write by three representatives and so on. You wrote it right and clear. I think I have grammatical training, I can read, I can write, I understand what it is. I expect you to say the names of these three clearly and clearly in the back of your jacket. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u153	Mr. Ivanov, thank you for the line. Mr. Manev, will you take the back? No. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Please vote on the name of Chapter Four, which becomes Chapter Five, with the oral amendment made by Mr. Ivanov. I put to the vote Chapter Four, which becomes Chapter Five "Communicating with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of Private Security Companies" a proposal by Mr. Ivanov. Vote 80 MPs: 16 against 55, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Four, which becomes Chapter Five, as proposed by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 67 against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We shall proceed with the vote on art. 42, which becomes art. 67, as well as Article 67. 43, which becomes 68. Vote 84 MPs: 70, against 10, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u154	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, which becomes Art. 69. "Chapter Five" Control of the private security activity. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for Chapter Five, which becomes Chapter Six, and proposes that its name be amended as follows: a Single Automated Centralised Register. Control of private security activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u155	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. Vote art. 44, which becomes Art. 69, and the name of Chapter Five, which is amended and done so Control of private security activities. Vote 82 MPs: 72, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u156	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 70: Art. 70. (1) The Ministry of Interior shall build and maintain a single automated centralized register of licenses for the activities under this law. (2) In the register under para. 1 enter and process data for: 1. the licences issued, the refusals to issue them and the licences withdrawn; 2. the sole trader or the legal person; 3. the natural person registered as a sole trader for the members of the management body of the trading company or of the legal person, for other persons authorised to manage and represent the sole trader or legal person; 4. the means used in carrying out the security (vehicles, weapons, etc.); 5. the submitted declarations under art. 46, para. 1; 6. the protected objects; 7. the names, CNN, permanent address, number and date of the the employment contract/order for termination of employment Security Officers' relationship to the the sole trader or the legal person; 8. written notifications of sites taken and taken by security; 9. written notifications of concluded and terminated employment contracts; 10. the administrative penalties imposed under this law; 11. the forced administrative measures imposed on the This law. (3) The information from the register under para. 1 is collected, processed, Keep and provide under the Law of the Ministry of internal affairs and can only be used to carry out control under this law and prevention, crossing and detection of crimes. (4) For licences issued and revoked to carry out Private security activities and refusals to issue them establish a public register that is announced on the website of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Ministry of Interior, under the Law for electronic control. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 71: Art. 71. (1) The control of the activities under this law shall be carried out by the police authorities of the Directorate-General of the National Police and by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior appointed by order of the Director. (2) The control bodies under para. 1: 1. require information and documents, and if necessary and certified copies thereof and access to any other documentation relating to the activities under art. 5, para. 1; 2. have the right to access the protected sites, including private property sites, subject to the provisions of the Ministry of Interior and the Code of Criminal Procedure; 3. have the right to access the data processed and stored in the kept registers; 4. give written orders with mandatory regulations for bringing the security activity to compliance with the requirements of the Law. (3) The order under para. 2, p. 4 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) Except in the cases provided for by that law, the control authorities shall not disclose the information constituting a business secret to the persons examined by them. [[The National Representatives Danail Kirilov and Manoil Manev spoke with the referee under the Law.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u157	Dear colleagues, Mr. Kirilov, can you make the clarification somewhere else, because when you speak, it is even heard from this microphone? Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. We're going to vote on art. 45, which becomes art. 70, with the version proposed by the Commission, as well as Article 70. 46, which becomes art. 71, with the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted. There was a request for a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to restore the debate in respect of art. 42, which becomes art. 67, including a possible re-voting of the text supported in principle by the importer and the version proposed by the Commission of art. 42, which becomes art. 67. I'm just trying to figure out what we're talking about here. In the debate on this provision to the text of the importer for art. 42 was proposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. It is noted that the Commission has generally supported the text of the importer and proposes an amendment to art. 42, which becomes art. 67. That's what I'm talking about. One sentence, two. In the text of the Commission, it is written as a sentence two: the President consists of the Vice-Director of the Directorate, and six members, three authorized representatives of the private security associations and three staff of the Directorate appointed by order of its Director. In fact, the Commission's will was in line with the proposal made by the MPs Tsvetanov, Manev and Nunev that the second sentence be: It is to be correctly reflected that it concerns an authorised representative of each of the associations of individuals engaged in private security activities. Members of the Commission say that the debate and what they have supported is in this sense. That is why I am making an explicit proposal for an editorial change to sentence two of para. 1 of the new Article. 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u159	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A procedural proposal has been made to Mr. Kirilov for a new discussion on art. 42, which becomes art. 67, and re-vote. Mr. Kirilov, the text, as it has done, does not contain the editorial proposal that you made orally from the stands, does it not? That is, we are voting on your editorial proposal, as you have done orally. [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] Procedure, Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand that there is an attempt to re-vote a text that has already passed at second reading. [[GERB lines.]] What do you mean, once it's been voted on? Another text has been voted after him. I really don't understand. I invited you several times and told you that you were making a mistake when you took this text. Now, at one point, I realized that you really made a mistake. I want you to explain to me what order the change of a member already voted will take? Because that's the kind of case we had when the state budget was adopted. Now you're putting us back in a situation that contradicts the rules. What text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will we now change the text already voted on? That's what I don't understand. [[GERB lines.]] Don't replicate me in the hall. Mr. Chairman, look what we voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u161	There's no such text. It's true what you say. But now there is a proposal made by Mr. Kirilov. [[Journals in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u162	They found out they made a big mistake. But I ask you, in the future, not to be allowed to make any, because we are currently breaking all kinds of laws, mostly breaking the rules. What does a new proposal of a text already voted on mean? There's another vote after him. She's even passed the re-voting procedure. [[GERB lines.]] I told you you made a mistake. What do you mean, I wanted to fix it? This text should not have been adopted at all, and you are now going in the opposite direction of breaking the Rules and correcting already committed fatal errors. I really do not know, Mr President, on what grounds will you allow this text to be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u163	There is no basis in the Rules, Mr. Ivanov. In favor of the good legislation, colleagues from GERB make a procedural note. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity. I didn't want to complicate the debate. So I suggested the two things, i.e. to cancel the vote to do a re-vote and go back to the debate. Here Mr. Ivanov would be right that there is to some extent a violation. It concerns the time of the revoting request. The re-vote is requested immediately after the vote. And here Mr. Ivanov is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u165	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u166	But indeed, as you say, and you represent the opposition thesis, the Commission's will was different. Your will was different, and your coworkers' will was different. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u167	It's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u168	In this situation and given that we do not have a second vote, that is, we have not exhausted the possibility of a debate, I have proposed a re-voting, possibly with the possibility of debate and clarification of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u169	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I think we've cleared the whole situation up. In the name of better legislation and better legislative solution, I shall put to the vote art. 42, which becomes art. 67, the second sentence of para. 1. The Editorial Amendment sounds like this: It consists of the Chairman of the Deputy Director of the DGN and members of the Directorate appointed by order of the Director of the DGN and one authorised representative of each of the associations of individuals engaged in private security activities. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u170	"Chapter Six" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission supports the text of the importer for Chapter Six, which becomes Chapter Seven. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 72: Art. 72. (1) Acting under art. 5, para. 1 without license or certificate is punished with a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN, and legal persons and sole traders are subject to a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the fine is from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN and the charge is from 50 000 to 100 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, which becomes art. 73, and in it the words.............................................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, which becomes art. 74, as in para. 1 words: art. 26, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 50, para. 1 and 2 (a.k.a. 2 words.............................................................................. 26, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 50, para. Three and four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50, which becomes art. 75: Art. 75. (1) A natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of a management body of a commercial company or of legal persons, or another person authorised to manage it and represented, who has allowed a member of the security staff to operate without professional qualifications or without a successful course certified under art. 50, para. 5, t. 7, is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. for each individual infringement. (2) A natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of a management body of a commercial company or of a legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing it, who, prior to the conclusion of a contract of employment with a member of the body of the sole trader or legal person, failed to fulfil his obligation under art. 50, para. 5, is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. for each individual infringement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 76: Art. 76. A natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of a management body of a commercial company or of a legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing which does not fulfil an obligation under art. 51, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 52, para. 3 " 5 " and para. 7 or under art. 54 is punishable by a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. for each individual infringement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u171	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I shall put it to the vote of art. 47, which becomes Art. Art. 72, Art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 76, and the title of Chapter Six. Vote 79 MPs: 68, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u172	The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes art. 52 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 76. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 77: Art. 77. A natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of a management body of a commercial company or of a legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and represented, which violates a prohibition under art. 53 is punished with a fine of 1000 leva. up to 5000 leva. for each individual infringement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 78: Art. 78. Head or contractor who fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 56, para. 6 or 7 is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. for each individual infringement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55, which becomes art. 79: Art. 79. Who broke a ban under art. 64, is punished with a fine of 500 leva. up to BGN 2000 for each individual infringement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 80: Art. 80. Who didn't provide access under art. 71, para. 2, p. 1 of the control bodies is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. for each individual infringement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 81. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 82: Art. 82. For non-compliance with another obligation arising from this law and the regulations governing private security activity, the natural person is punished with a fine, respectively a legal person and a sole trader is subject to a penalty of 200 to 500 BGN. for each individual infringement, if it is not subject to a more severe penalty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 83.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u173	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put it to the vote of art. Art. 52 to art. 59, which becomes art. 83 with editorial amendments made by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 77, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u174	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2, and the proposal under point 2. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1. ................................................................................... For the 1. He is an employee of the labour force with the employer, a sole trader or a legal person entrusted in writing with organising, directing and controlling the security activities of his employer. 2. In the case of personal security, personal security is a protected establishment; movable or immovable property is a private person in the case of security or self-guarding of the property of natural or legal persons; property and property in which the property is situated; persons and property in a drinking or entertainment establishment, discotheque, gaming or computer rooms........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. "Video-observance" is a technical form of processing and storage within the period of personal data provided for by law, carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and this law, related to the requirements for the processing of personal data under art. 2, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act, including filming of persons in a secure object and recording of the data received. 4. The alert and alert systems shall be anti-invasion and attack alarm systems, including central or local panels, control panels, sensors, signalling devices and devices for transmitting signals at a distance that signal when attempting to overcome or destroy physical barriers by physical protection systems or in the event of an attack on an object. 5. "Urbanised territory' is the urban territory covered by the boundaries of the settlement or the urban entity (its construction boundaries) defined with a spatial plan, without including the land. 6. "Monitor control" is a limited form of video surveillance with technical means of the guarded site, without the possibility of recording the data received. 7. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 8. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the violator for the same type of infringement shall be repeated. 9. The agricultural property is the property under art. 2, para. 1 of the Agricultural Property Conservation Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: § 2. The Ministry of Interior provides an opportunity to accept the documents under art. Art. 41, Art. 46, para. Art. 1, art. 51, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 52, para. 3, 4 and 5 in electronic form under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u175	So far, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Section of Additional Provisions, as well as paragraphs 1 and 2, with the amendments made by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted. Go to the next section.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u176	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. According to § 4 there are proposals from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: In Paragraph 4, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 words with the ordinance under art. 5, para. In the Rules of Implementation of the Law and the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ (1) Licences issued until the entry into force of this law for private security activities, including licences for self-security issued to persons under art. 2, para. 3, keep their action. (2) Person with a licence issued under art. 5, para. 1, t. 1, 3 "5" of the repealed Law on Private Security Activity (SG. 15 from 2004) within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, it shall certify that its private security activities comply with the minimum requirements laid down in Chapter 2. (3) When the licence under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 of the repealed Law on Private Security Activity (DV, SG No. 15 from 2004) issued to a person other than those referred to in art. 2, para. 3 shall apply § 5. (4) Person with a licence issued under art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the repealed Law on Private Security Activity (DV, SG No. 15 of 2004) may carry out activities under art. 5, para. 1, t. 3, 5 and 6, if within 6 months of the entry into force of this law an application is made to the authority under art. 40 that it carries out such activities and certify that it meets the minimum requirements for its operation provided for in Chapter 2. (5) The order for submission of an application under para. 4 and the verification under para. 2 and 4 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 2, para. 4. (6) The activity under para. 4 declared and certified pursuant to para. 5 shall be entered in addition to the licence held in accordance with Article 5. 46. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. The Commission proposes to create new § 5 and 6: .................................................................................. The licenses issued until the entry into force of this law to perform self-security of persons other than those under art. 2, para. 3 shall cease to apply within one year of its entry into force. § 6. For individuals engaged in private security activities with contracts concluded at the date of entry into force of this law, the requirements of art. 50 on education and professional qualifications. According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: Paragraph 6 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8. ................................................................................... The single automated centralized register of licenses under art. 70, para. 1 shall be built within one year of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u177	So far, Mr. Nunev. Are there any statements on the proposed texts? I can't see. I put, first, to a vote not supported by the Commission proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov for § 4. Procedure, Mr. Ermenkov? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. We're in voting mode right now, hold on. [[Noise and lines.]] Is the proposal in relation to the vote? [[Reply.]] Okay, do it, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u178	Mr. Chairman, we have several proposals at different stages of acceptance. One was a proposal for names proposed by the Commission, which were before the proposals of colleagues from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We probably should have voted first on the proposals for names before the proposals for amendments to the text were made so that we could go in the order of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u179	Mr. Ermenkov, what names are we talking about? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u180	...after which we can now vote unaccepted and accepted and so on. We can't vote on things that are after things that we haven't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u181	Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for the procedure, but we are currently voting on the move and closing provisions of the chapter. In this chapter and in the texts that have been read, there are proposals made by Members of Parliament who are not supported by the Commission and which I put first to the vote as it is by the Rules. There are no other written proposals for the name of the head before me. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov under § 4, not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 11 against 71, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov concerning § 6 They voted 91 MPs: 14 against 71, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. And now I put to the vote the name of Section "Transitional and final provisions', which the Commission is calling upon, and also paragraphs 3, 4 to § 7, which becomes § 8. 90 MPs voted: 80, against 2, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u182	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: "Paragraph 8 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10. ..................................................... The procedures for granting or withdrawing a licence, other than those relating to a licence to carry out self-security of persons other than those referred to in Article, which have not been completed until the entry into force of this law. 2, para. 3, are finished in the current order. According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9, para. 5 words in the order of art. 28 of the Law on Private Security is deleted. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Nunev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 93 t. 2 is repealed. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov: ..created § 12a: 12a. (1) Within 2 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the rules for its implementation. (2) The regulations issued under the application and on the basis of the repealed Private Security Act shall apply until the Rules of Procedure under para. 1 to the extent that they do not conflict with this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... The law shall enter into force two months after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of art. 2, para. Art. 4 and art. 5, para. 4 which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov to drop § 8. They voted 93 MPs: 12, against 70, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. One clarification for the minutes of the previous paragraphs voted on is § 5, which has been rejected and rejected, and the Commission proposes that paragraphs 5 and 6 be created. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Penev, Philip Popov, Slavcho Velkov and Georgi Gokov on the creation of § 12a. They voted 93 MPs: 13, against 67, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 8 to 16 with the editorials made. Vote 94 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted. Reference to the Protocol: Paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, the newly created § 14 and the newly established § 16. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u184	Annex to art. 17, para. 1. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the Annex, with the words "c' everywhere in it. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u185	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall vote on the annex to art. 17, para. 1 with the amendments made by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 13. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u186	My fellow Members, I would like to thank everyone for the patience you have shown for all the colleagues who have participated in the discussions, the experts, the referees, in order to adopt the Private Security Act today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-18.u187	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Messages of parliamentary control in tomorrow's sitting 19 January 2018, Friday at 9.00. 1. Debates on the inquiry by MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on an e-government policy. 2. Questions and questions: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva and a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MP Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Vessela Lecheva, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Kristian Vigenin; Christian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev; Georgi Yordanov, Vessela Lecheva and Valentin Lambev; Georgi Mihaylov - Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer one question from the MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. 92, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov are postponed. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Interior Minister Valentin Radev and Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozanov will not participate. Due to the running out of agendas and the running out of time, I'm closing today's meeting. Tomorrow's session is at 9:00, Friday, January 19th.......................... control........................................................................... [[PHONE RINGING]]
