ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 19 December 2018. 1. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018. The first vote was adopted on 7 December 2018. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. A joint project prepared by the Committee on Culture and Media on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 15 November 2018 with importers: Emilia Milkova on 7 November 2018; Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area. Aleksandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 28 November 2018. The first vote was adopted on 13 December 2018. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2018. The first vote was adopted on 21 November 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. 7. Draft decision on structural changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 17 December 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 20 December 2018 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Danail Kirilov was an importer on 10 December 2018. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 December 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 20 December 2018 9. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 25 October 2018. Point 1 for Friday, 21 December 2018 By decision of the Conference of Presidents, we shall include: 10. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions. A joint project drawn up by the Commission on Religions and Human Rights on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 11 October 2018 with importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. Point 2 for Friday, 21 December 2018 11. Parliamentary control. Please, a voting regime on the so-called proposal for an agenda. Cancel the vote! Colleagues, I'm sorry, but I forgot to read one point: 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018. The first vote was adopted on 16 November 2018. Please vote again. They voted 165 MPs: 127 against 7, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 12 December to 18 December 2018: Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is Honest Vesselinoff. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importers are Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. Bill amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Annual Youth Report 2017 and Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Animal Health. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Countering Corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Importers are Daniel Kirilov and Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Draft decision on structural changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Report on the hearing of admission candidates for members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Another message: Information about inflation and consumer price indices for November 2018 was received from the National Statistical Institute. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PREMIUM AND THE CONVERSION OF THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF UNION AND ARMED FORCE. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 please allow access to the hall of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov and Deputy Minister Zapreyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 150 MPs: 143, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u4	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Defence on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 802-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2018, adopted at the first vote on 7 December 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. There is a proposal from the National Representative Konstantin Popov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The Act amending the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u5	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the version of the name of the Law, supported by the Commission, of course, and the text of the importer. Vote 149 MPs: 142, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Chairman of the Defence Committee, I would like to say with regard to the name of the Law that I have repeatedly asked the question...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u7	Mr. Velkov, I asked if there were any speeches on the subject, you only state the revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u8	Yes, I'd like to propose a re-vote, but I'd like to motivate myself to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u9	There's no point in motivating yourself. You have no right. You should have spoken by the book. I asked if you'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u10	Okay, well, in that case, I'll be taking a stand in a moment, but the questions will be heard in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u11	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u12	Be so kind as to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u13	We've figured it out. Please, re-election mode. Vote 158 MPs: 135 against 5, abstention 18. The proposal under § 1 is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against the name of the Bill because of the Commission and many times afterwards I did not get an answer to the question: what does the concept, the category of foreign armed forces, mean? If anyone here in this room is able to explain it to me, let them. I see that there is also General Zaprianov last time I received no satisfactory answer. Madam President, as someone has taken the bait to be foreign armed forces, he could not guess that other States under contract or foreign countries could write armed forces. I also gave a hint, I ask: "Foreign armed forces" within the meaning of this bill, which have the right to pass and reside are the armed forces of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Serbia and say after 10 years of Kosovo, who are not members of the NATO collective defence treaty? Someone tried to explain that these were armed forces of states that had a treaty with our allies. I ask: since the Russian Federation has a treaty of military co-operation with our ally, will the Republic of Turkey pass through here? Is that what I'm asking you? Why can't you answer me? Tell me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Mr. General, please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1, supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 138, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u18	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that the name of the division should be removed from the words "Transitional" and "Transitional" as the proposed provisions are only final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u19	You are proposing to stay only "Concluding."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u20	Only the Finals to stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u21	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal for an editorial amendment to the President of the Commission in the title of the division. They voted 143 MPs: 135, against 2, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. I put the name of the division to the vote as a result of the newly adopted editorial amendment. Vote 136 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u22	§ 2 is proposed by the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 9d shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions: ..... 9d............................................................................................ Until the creation of technical and organisational conditions for issuing the card under art. 59, para. 6 The Ministry of Interior shall issue to the servicemen and members of the civilian component of a NATO structure located in the Republic of Bulgaria as well as to their dependents, residence permits, without having the requirements of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria or residence certificates, without having the requirements of the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families. The Ministry of Defence shall provide the necessary information in writing to the Ministry of Interior for the issue of the relevant documents. 2. In § 21 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. (a) the words "from 1 January 2019" shall be replaced by "from 1 January 2020" shall be replaced by "from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u23	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to speak on t. 2 of § 2, where you propose a modification of the period from 1 January 2019 to 1 January 2020. Firstly, I would like to point out to you that, for some unknown reason, in a Law concerning the powers and competence of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Commission, texts are inserted which have nothing to do with this competence. This text is within the competence of the Ministry of Interior and the competence of the Commission on Internal Affairs and Security. In my opinion, inserting this text into this law at least contradicts sound logic, not to say that it is once again an attempt to push through something that concerns deadlines that we have voted ourselves to change and postpone in time in the backyard. The second thing I would like to say, and this is much more important, that the change of deadlines that once voted in the National Assembly means that either those who offered us these deadlines were overoptimists, or those who offered us these deadlines did not do their job in time, and that is why they are now proposing an extension of the deadline, or we who voted these deadlines, or those who voted them, have supported them, you were not aware of what you were voting on. The three cases do not speak well of statehood. The three cases do not speak well about the administration that offers texts and those who vote them automatically, and we become a stamp that confirms and legitimizes decisions and proposals of the administration which are incompatible with the normal time for implementation. In the Commission, we heard that the problem with the extension of time limits was that the procurement had not been completed and it took a long time to complete it so that things could happen in time. I ask a question: what prevented it from starting in time with the contract so that it could be completed within the time limit? Moreover, we have heard that since the deadline was already running out and we really should have introduced the new documents, the new electronic identification, and there is no way to do that, we would have been in a messy situation. I think there is no more embarrassing situation than changing the deadlines that we have voted on ourselves. Moreover, I could not understand why an additional PID from the ruling majority was not introduced to the relevant law to be discussed at first and second reading, in which a bill should be taken into account, to explain why this is happening. Given the bill that we will be looking at in connection with what the people have called the Anti-Corruption Commission, it could have happened in three days. So there was plenty of time on this road to go, but no, we decided that this should enter into a law that had nothing to do with these documents, but instead we could spend it faster. We from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria are not going to support this. 2. In this regard, I am also making a procedural proposal for a split vote on this point. 1 et c. 2 in § 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor. 2 of the proposed bill because this is yet another attempt to amend the Law amending and supplement the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which is directly related to the introduction of electronic government. Electronic governance, I repeat, is one of the priorities of this ruling majority and of Prime Minister Borisov's third government. Sadly, however, with this change that is being offered to us now, where the rulers are wondering where to find its place. 2, whether to be in § 3, how to bring it in at the last minute, at the last day of the year, at all attempts to chicify the legislative process, in fact shows once again that the introduction of electronic governance in Bulgaria will not take place in 2019 and that the government is not convinced of the need to introduce electronic governance. I repeat that with the change proposed, it is actually proposed to postpone the introduction of electronic identification in Bulgarian identification documents. There is no electronic identification of our fellow citizens, no electronic government! This electronic identification relates to the implementation of a number of services that our fellow citizens could use in the state and municipal administration as electronic services. I would remind you again that this delay in the introduction of electronic identification is not happening because a few months ago the majority in this Chamber refused to accept the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. If this had happened, today this problem would not have existed and all our fellow citizens who want to use electronic identification would have done so only by re-registered their electronic signature. Currently there are more than 200,000 electronic signatures issued and these fellow citizens would be able to actually use the electronic services of the state administration. Now what happens? We don't have an electronic identification, but we do have an electronic exchange of documents in the public administration. I ask: how are these documents exchanged? Here is Deputy Minister Tzipov, I hope that this time he will become and as an executive, will explain to us how this exchange of electronic documents takes place because documents are exchanged that are not actually signed because there is no electronic identification?! That's right! I very much hope that one of the government and I call on Mr. Tzipov to really come out to defend this proposal of the Council of Ministers and to explain to us why it is necessary to postpone the introduction of electronic identification by another year in Bulgarian personal documents and, in his opinion, does this failure of the government in the introduction of electronic government in our country? BSP and our parliamentary group will vote against this item. 2 and indeed I call on my fellow Members, let us support the dismissal that we have proposed in § 3 of this proposal to the Council of Ministers and keep the introduction of electronic identification on 1 January 2019 as foreseen. If there are any valid reasons for this not to happen, let's hear them.... where exactly the government failed, why it fails with technical changes and technical innovations so that the electronic identification can be introduced in the Bulgarian identity documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Next statement you have the floor, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I only took the floor to distract the suggestion that comes from the opposition. They are right, of course, let there be criticism. There could have been another PID, there would have been no changes in the final paragraphs of this bill, but that's what we've decided. The important thing is that there is a solution and it is actually a responsibility. You are now proposing, colleague: well let him come in from January 1st. Well, how is he gonna get in when the contract isn't over?! Yeah, the administration didn't make it. We are talking about a very large contract, over 200 million..... a very responsible task, and we are acting responsibly. This is what GERB does. We respect the law. We say: yes, the time limit cannot be respected because of public procurement, that is, there is a law. There may be a remark to the administration that it did not do it well in time, that it did not provide for it to happen, and not only in this case, in many other cases, and not only in this department, but also in yours, and in all that has happened. But I plead to follow the rules. That's what we've done. We're following the Public Procurement Act. We'll take it slow and easy. Nobody's ever done that before. We're reaching for and we're going to do the electronic controls, but we have to do it carefully. Since we're talking about a lot of money and obviously we can't meet the deadline, how can we leave the deadline?! On January 1st, let them come and explain to us and then, of course: yes, but it doesn't come in. Well, it doesn't come in, we've made a decision and we've made it the right way. The only thing I agree with is that it could have been somewhere else. Yeah, but the administration was trying to do it until the last minute. Well, it didn't happen, and we find a law that's appropriate and we put it in there. We have explained this many times in the Commission. You have the right to go out and speak in the stands and dissolve the matter, but a responsible decision has been made. That's what we've done, and I think it's the right thing to do. So I thank my colleagues for their efforts. I think that as soon as I know the technology in which it is done in the Ministry of Interior, this law will stand up and we will have electronic identification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Radev, I'm making a line for you because you say this was responsible behavior. No, that's just irresponsible behavior. You were the Home Secretary. When you signed the law, did the BSP tell you these terms? Don't you know how to do a 200 million-dollar procedure? lv.? Don't you know how long this procedure will take? How many laws have we changed in the last two weeks to delay their deadlines? Who outside this room will believe you that the electronic controls will start in 2020? Well, don't set deadlines. Say, when the order is finished, we'll make the deadline. What do we set some deadlines for, and we always start changing them from December 20th? Do we realize how many things we've put off, how many reforms we've put off, how many hopes we've put off with anything?! It wasn't changes, it was changes. You found the right thing to do through this law. But there's a law! What does that mean?! Well give here a title of law and who likes what in the law to push their amendments between first and second reading Why does this parliamentaryism exist? Why is there such a rule of law for the National Assembly? It is clear how it changes, how it is discussed. The next item is the Law of Construction on the territory. At first reading you imported one paragraph, at second reading 52 paragraphs. Is that normal legislation?! Is this going to be a normal change?! If there are no discussions, there are no committees, we are talking about it, and otherwise that will not happen, it is clear. But we ask the other question: why didn't you accept BSP's proposal for electronic identification? Then Minister Donchev here explained how it couldn't happen. Well, it could have happened, but you're not listening. If you don't want to listen, at least don't do any other nonsense, because people outside are waiting for reforms, waiting for changes, waiting for electronic governance. You tell them: an electronic connection between municipalities, but they can't go to identify themselves. How do they do that? I mean, let's work a little harder. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line, please, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Radev, as a reply, I have two questions to your speech: I wonder when the administration, which you are defending, that it has allowed a slight omission, at what point exactly did you realize that the order will not be completed within the time limit of 5 November when the bill that we are dealing with has been submitted, now or before? This is an important moment. And indeed, do not divert attention in the direction of where and when exactly the proposal for another one has been put in place, yet again I say, delaying the deadline for the introduction of the electronic identification. Because at the end of 2016, it was postponed to 2019, now since 2019 we are procrastinating it to 2020. And I say again: remember that when we looked at the Law on Electronic Documents, on Electronic Certification Services, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) proposed a way in which the electronic identification would enter into force at the same time when we adopted the Law on all Bulgarian citizens who hold an electronic signature. That wasn't accepted. Why? Because someone has to spend $200 million to issue new personal documents that contain electronic identification, and never know when. What was the reason why this proposal was not accepted at the time, and now no one was able to answer. Even I will tell you that when in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications we were looking at the proposal, the experts who had come from the State Agency for Electronic Governance said: the proposal is correct, but we cannot accept it now because the public procurement has already started. Well, this contract for new identification documents with electronic identification is postponed, postponed, delayed, explaining that it's very heavy. No, it's not heavy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Third line? You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u34	My fellow Members, I continue to say that this is responsible behavior. Changing and changing deadlines is no exception. Do I remind you that Einstein said it was a mark of intelligence, if you change, if you freeze to the same position... Besides, you're blaming the administration by accident. Remember that when you come to power after many years, this administration will serve you as well. So they did this. We can give the will, the direction of each party does this, but the administration has done it. She's making this public procurement as much as she can, that's what she's done. And besides, this public procurement is under a lot of responsibility. It's not just about money, it's not just about companies in the world who can do this, and we have to do it very carefully. You and I, while you are opposed, will argue when this public procurement takes place. Thank you for paying attention to these processes and problems, but GERB is a responsible party and we are acting responsibly. That's what I'm trying to stress. And we didn't set the course. Yeah, we'll change the deadline if we have to, third time we'll extend it. Who said the deadline was frozen?! We have to do this by the book. The Public Procurement Act is just as good a law as any other law we change. And there it's said: you have to do it this way and we do it this way. Not quite we the party GERB, the administration does. Don't forget that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Any other speeches? Here you are, Deputy Minister Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll try to be brief and make some clarification. First, I would like to draw attention to the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and to the fact that there are several laws still in force: The Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Signature, which regulates the electronic signature; The Law on Electronic Governance; there is also the Law on Electronic Identification. The electronic identity, dear Mr. Danchev, in Bulgarian personal documents is a component of the new forms of documents to be introduced, namely an electronic medium in the ID card, in the passport and in the certificates of residence of foreigners. This electronic medium is expected to be divided into two and has biometric data and electronic identity in it. And at the moment, under the current Law on Electronic Identification, there is the possibility that any other medium could record the so-called "skilled electronic signature" and use certification services provided by the State, including those provided by the State. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Interior is extremely responsible for introducing these new documents to Bulgarian personal documents. And the proposal is made through this law because it provides the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, this new model map of a NATO employee who resides in the territory of Bulgaria. There are two other kinds of new documents. This is an electronic ID card and an electronic passport. We need time to complete the procedure, but I would like to assure you that we will do everything possible to meet the deadline foreseen in 2020, not for any other reason, but because in the second half of 2010, the serious peak of the replacement of Bulgarian personal documents begins. Once again, I am responsible: we will do our best to complete this complex procedure. I would like to inform you that the previous so-called "passportisation" began in the autumn of 2006 and ended in the spring of 2009, that is, it took about two and a half years. Let me remind you that these amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which provide for the new models, were adopted at the end of 2016 and entered into force from the beginning of 2017. I am convinced that we will be able to manage for the same period, although there are.. again I want to explain three new examples of documents, which the state has not yet issued. And it will issue, so that both Bulgarian citizens and foreign nationals who reside in the territory of Bulgaria can use these electronic services that you are talking about. Today's topic, which is being discussed, has nothing to do with electronic control. I would like to assure you that at the moment every Bulgarian citizen, if requested, can use an electronic signature, a qualified electronic signature, according to the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Tasco Ermenkov for a split vote on point one and point two of Paragraph 2. They voted 120 MPs: 96, against 5, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 2 in the general part of § 2 and the first point. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote point two of the version of § 2. They voted 122 MPs: 90 against 31, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u38	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Dragomir Stoinev: In the Transitional and Final Provisions § 3 to be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 2, item 2. 2. There is a technical amendment here in the Report, please be added to the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u39	To be added to the list of items in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No Just please read this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u40	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 2, item 2. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u41	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking the floor to explain why we are going to vote against the Commission's proposal, which may seem paradoxical, as the Commission itself proposes to drop § 3, as we have proposed. However, the most interesting thing that happened was in the Defence Committee when our proposal to reject § 3 was not accepted, but was accepted to drop § 3 in the proposal of the President of the Commission. It wasn't the content that was visible, it was the reasons why this thing was gone. It is for this reason that we will support our proposal to reject § 3 and will not support the Commission's proposal to reject § 3 for the reason that it is systematically located there at another point. We don't want that to exist at all. We will therefore vote against the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 125 MPs: 38, against 63, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I will now put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 3 by importer, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 2, item 2. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u44	With the tech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u45	I read it and you read it, yes. Vote 124 MPs: 89, against 33, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u46	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. Art....) 25e is amended as follows: Art. 25e. Military service and members of the civilian component of the structure of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) located in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as their dependents reside in the Republic of Bulgaria without having the requirements of this law. The period of residence may be longer than one year. Proposal by the National Representative Konstantin Popov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. Paragraph 2, t. 2 shall enter into force from 31 December 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u47	Thank you, my dear General. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3, and shall be supported by the Commission; secondly, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5, which shall become § 4, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5, with a text according to the Commission Report. They voted 119 MPs: 113, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. This is a joint project drawn up by the Committee on Culture and Media on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 15 November with the representatives of the National Assembly Emilia Milkova, Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva. You have the floor for the presentation of the report, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Presenting: On 15 November 2018, the Report on the General Draft Law of the Law on Cultural Heritage, No 854-01-81, submitted by Emilia Milkova on 7 November 2018, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Heritage, No 854-01-82, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 43a: Art. 43a. The identification of the intangible cultural heritage is a research activity by which it is determined whether an intangible licence complies with the criteria for a cultural value and its classification and categorisation applies respectively to Chapter 6a, Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u49	Statements? I can't see. I put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the proposal of the Commission to create § 1 by text, according to the Commission Report. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u50	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Professor Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 The identification of movable cultural values is a research activity by which it is determined whether a property complies with the criteria for cultural value, as well as its classification and categorisation according to the order of this law. (2) The identification of cultural values shall be carried out by national and regional museums independently or jointly with other scientific or cultural institutes and universities. The right to carry out identification also has municipal and private museums designated by the Minister of Culture's order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u51	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 1, which shall become § 2, and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 2 by importer. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u52	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u53	I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 2. They voted 102 MPs: 94 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u54	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Stanislav Stratiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 97 the following 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: s) Natural and legal persons possessing possessions or collections of objects which may be defined as cultural values may request their identification in accordance with art. 96, para. 2. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: No identification is required for the purpose of subsequent sale works of Bulgarian fine and applied art in all varieties created after 1900, as well as Bulgarian printed books issued after 1805. According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 101 is amended as follows: Art. 101. The Minister of Culture shall not issue an order in the cases referred to in art. 100, para. 4 and the director of the museum does not issue a certificate under art. 98, para. 3 or under art. 100, para. 5, if there is evidence to suggest that the objects of identification are illegally acquired or falsified works of painting, sculpture, graphics or archaeological objects. In such cases, they shall notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u55	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 3 and 4. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u56	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u57	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 5. They voted 93 MPs: 82 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u59	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 5. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u60	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u61	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the proposal, supported by the Commission, to reject § 7. Vote 96 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u62	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Chapter 6, in the name of Section IV, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 8, which shall become § 6. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u64	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 the following 1. In para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the persons, owners or owners of identified movable cultural values and/or collections of such values are entitled to: 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The museum, in which the movable cultural values are identified, may accept them in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 if there are conditions for their storage. The relationship between the owner or the owner and the museum shall be governed by a written contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u65	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the version of § 9, which becomes § 7. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u66	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 texts before p. 1 is amended as follows: the persons, owners or owners of identified movable cultural values and/or collections of such values have the following obligations:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u67	Thank you. Are there any speeches? They don't want to talk. We're going to vote. We are voting for § 10, which becomes § 8. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 after the words................................................................................................................ 116, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u69	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of § 11, which becomes § 9. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against one abstentionist, none. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u70	There is a proposal from the MP Vejdi Rashidov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 122 is In case of sufficient data that the certificate under art. 98, para. 3 was issued on the basis of an incorrect expert Opinion or in the case of alerts on the authenticity of the item subject to identification, the Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him shall issue a reasoned order for the suspension of the tender and shall notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u71	Thank you. Are there any statements on this text? I won't. We are voting on the new § 10. They voted 107 MPs: for 106, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u72	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva: In § 12, Article 12 is replaced by the following: 128, para. 1 after the words "cultural values under art. 97, para. In the countries of the European Union, the words should be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u73	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor for a statement under § 12 as it was one of several paragraphs which were very closely discussed in the working group on this bill................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 128, para. 1. The importer's proposal is as follows: The export and temporary export of movable cultural goods from the territory of the country shall be carried out with an export authorisation or an export certificate. Exports of acquired outside the territory of the country cultural values under art. 97, para. 6 shall be carried out with their documents of origin. That's the importer's offer. My fellow Members, in the debate, I have made a proposal which has been discussed in detail, but is not reflected in the report, so I would like to present it to your attention as well. It was as follows: in the second sentence the export of acquired outside the territory of the country cultural values under art. 97, para. 6 shall be carried out with their documents of origin and shall add a comma and shall be added with which they have been imported. I gave examples in the discussion, including at a second reading in the Commission, if, for example, someone imported from Tokyo, Beijing or Reykjavik cultural value, took a document of origin, a certificate of tender or a document from the owner who sold him this movable item, he so far crossed the customs border of the Republic of Bulgaria most often without specifically declaring it. If we now add the requirement for the possible export to use the same document, we will motivate this importer at the time of entry into the customs territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to state the document for this acquisition. We have talked a lot about whether it is logical to demand a stricter regime when exporting precisely such movable cultural values. They were imported and are most often not related to the assessment, to the qualification, to their identification as cultural values in Bulgaria. If not a Viking helmet from Iceland [[crowd cheering]] with a document of origin, yes, why should I have a problem being certified in Bulgaria in order to carry it out, say, for Paris or for France? A number of such examples could be given. In addition, in this regime, we are in any event following the requirements of European law. Yes, here as an importer, I have explained to my fellow Members that we are in the process of adopting a regulation regarding the movement of cultural values in relation to terrorist financing, we are also now implementing the European regulation and our legislation is related to this directive. Here I would like to say that I support both the opinion and the proposal of my colleague Velislava Krasteva, which offers the supplement in the countries of the European Union. As has become clear, of course, this supplement does not matter at all because intra-Communityly we have the application of the directive in question and we are not obliged to explicitly follow any export regime that is for countries from outside the European Union. I am thinking to you about these proposals and I am making this proposal to your attention with a request to be put to the vote, because this will enable, firstly, to enlighten the transit regime of the transition of such values through the Republic of Bulgaria and to really exercise control rather than all of this becoming hidden and without such control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u75	Are there any lines to Mr. Kirilov's statement? Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u76	Firstly, this clause in the current law is consistent with three laws, two of which are for countries of the European Union - Italy and Greece, which are in our saturated area with archaeological monuments. Secondly, the Ministry of Culture insists on certification in Bulgaria to know how these monuments move, and this does not concern any difficulties in exports. Thirdly, so far under this law, which we want to fix, no exports of such monuments of culture from Bulgaria have been stopped. There's just no reason to stop. The point is to monitor the movement of cultural monuments that are imported from the outside. The Commission therefore agreed with the opinion of the Ministry of Culture that these monuments should be certified and voted in this sense to the working group. This was the contradiction with the proposal of Mr. Kirilov and Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u78	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I agree with the amendment made by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The problem is simpler to explain. In the Commission, I have asked the question: how many even arrested treasure hunters are there regarding the cultural values for which there are, anyway, channels that work? We all know that Bulgaria is on the border with Asia and is basically a major channel for the trafficking of cultural values. The documents with which imports can be proved are a good enough reason to legitimize a cultural value. Of course, legitimization and the opportunity to liberalise is to allow people who keep their cultural values under the counter, the state to have a common view of them and to know where they are. Their legitimization or licensing is the one thing the state will look at. I dare say that this law would be much more useful than nothing. Why nothing? I will repeat to you that I am the person who has allowed myself, without having an agreement with Canada, to return 21 thousand of these are not one, two things, cultural values. We dragged them in suitcases because you didn't have 300,000. EUR to pay with official security and everything to come. Colleagues, these things are moving out very quickly and easily. They're very hard to get back. Not all countries have an agreement to combat smuggling or export cultural values. Therefore, I think that this law is good to pass, it is good to know where there is, it is good to have control over it, but it is only when we give collectors the opportunity to legitimize and license their works. Until then, trust me, the sewers will work. They're working!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u79	The weather, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u80	I support Mr. Kirilov. The correction is good enough. There's no need to give away one document, one hundred more from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u81	Mr Rashidov, however, I would like to remind you that the proposal in the Commission report is to reject this paragraph. Mr. Kirilov proposed to remain the text and made an addition to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u82	Of course, if Parliament votes, this paragraph can be rejected. However, I suggest that we do not reject a paragraph that will legitimise cultural values. Because the rejection I'm about to be a little more frank, it's no coincidence that I asked how many treasure hunters have been arrested. The answer won't be very good: except for the Emperor who killed him. I very much want Bulgaria to have control over cultural values because it may turn out to be involved in many other levels of people, and this is the only way with their transparency and legitimization to stop this trafficking. Otherwise we will export Bulgaria. I guarantee it! And we're taking her out. Not to mention Zhivko Popov, Emil Alexandrov and our medieval icons very simply exported through the Czech Republic. I propose that this law and this paragraph be passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u83	Okay. It was important to clarify the room as well. Are there any other lines to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, who made a reply! I thank Academician Rashidov for the clarification he gave in relation to this proposal. With regard to Professor Stanilov's reply, I would like to state the following: this proposal actually allows for preliminary controls on imports, as I will repeat here, motivates the importer to demonstrate the import document of this item at the time of importation. In the debate, the colleagues from the Ministry of Culture said: "Yes, but we will have to train customs officers on our matter. " - I think that even now customs officials have knowledge of this matter, but I see no obstacle and to increase their knowledge in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u85	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u86	They're handling documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u87	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u88	Mr. Kirilov, your time is running out. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u89	Madam President, if I may, in the finale of the rejoinder, I would like to clarify the purely procedural issues relating, however, to this proposal of mine. Colleagues, if you support this proposal of mine, it should look procedurally like this: the Commission has decided to reject the text of the importer, i.e. because this proposal of the Commission is put to the vote first...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u90	It's a procedure now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u91	...we should not support the motion for rejection in order to be able to vote for the importer's proposal together with the edit, with the supplement I have offered to your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u92	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I won't. Firstly, I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 12. They voted 109 MPs: 16 against 29, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We will now vote on Mrs Velislava Krasteva's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 85, against 10, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer with the amendment made by Mr. Kirilov. Vote 107 MPs: 94 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u93	With a vast majority, you opened the door so that the state has no control over the movements of a certain group of monuments of great importance to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u94	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Is there another negative vote? I won't. We continue on the Commission report. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva. [[References between the President and the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u95	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u96	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to reject § 13 supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u97	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Emilia Milkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: As regards the case-law of supplied by the owner of the real estate, respectively by the person to whom the right of management is granted, and for cultural values held in the funds of museums, libraries and archives by the director of the institution concerned. The relationship between the owner, respectively the person to whom the right of management is granted, and the museum, library or archive, shall be governed by a contract of retribution, subject to the requirements of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. [[References between the President and the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u98	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the version of § 14, which is not 13, but § 12, because we adopted the previous paragraph to be rejected. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u99	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Emilia Milkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The creation, dissemination and use of images of cultural values for personal needs, for representative, educational and scientific purposes, including the creation, issue and distribution of scientific works and publications, is free. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The creation of images of archeological real cultural values with mosaics, murals or rock paintings is carried out in compliance with the conditions laid down by the provisions for their preservation. (4) Reproduction in whole or in part in an image or otherwise of newly discovered and/or newly studied archaeological cultural values shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The investigator may not refuse to consent to reproduction in case it is necessary for design activities within the meaning of Section V of Chapter Five, subject to its copyright.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 13. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u101	There is a proposal from the MP Vejdi Rashidov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 202 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: ") Who, as a member of the Committee on Art. 96, para. 3 or a person entered in the register under art. 96, para. 4 gave a false expert opinion in writing under art. 98, para 1, shall be punished with a fine of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN if the act does not constitute a crime and shall be removed from the register under art. 96, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u102	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Professor Stanilov, and then Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u103	My speech is mainly for the minutes, as I was the only one in the Commission to abstain from voting on these few paragraphs concerning penalties for the people who carry out the identification of the monuments. In this identification, especially of archaeological monuments, an honest mistake can be made. An error may be made by lack of sufficient external information and for many other technological reasons. Therefore, we cannot identify people who, with very high professionalism, do this identification, such severe punishments, as we will not be able to gather experts at all to make a real identification that is within the meaning of world science. You can't pin an absolute infallibility on anyone else. Doctors who treat people make mistakes, and here for an error in identification that is difficult to identify. I've spent half a century dealing with this identification, believe me, these are severe punishments, and people will start giving up on work. But in the Commission, this proposal by Daniel Kirilov was adopted with great enthusiasm and everyone voted so to speak unanimously. I think that's how you're gonna vote. This is a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u104	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u105	Madam President, colleagues! This amendment, I, as an artist, will tell you why it is very necessary. All over the world the creation of counterfeits, copies is very severely punished and so should they. To deprive the original of the authenticity of its value, to have its own presence in the art market is an absolute crime. I'll give you an example of why I suggested it. In each state museum each work is an exceptional national value protected by the Law. In Bulgarian museums, however, for many years there has been a very difficult practice to extract works that are unique, which are kept in the treasury of our national culture, to pour copies and fill foreign collections. I would not be ashamed to say the name of the collector whose yard we filled with valuables from the National Gallery called Hugo Wouten. You, fellow Members, can you imagine if the director of the museum, Rodden, gave away the Thinker, or the Citizens of Calais, to be poured out one piece, but she will not be released from prison until today. It's impossible, guys! Very soon, an interesting piece of material came out in the newspaper, which I think is quite serious truth. The same painting of the Master is an outstanding author, has been printed several times already. We devalue the originals, we draw them, we make them just a halvadian notebook. Mr. Stanilov, let us know that one of the largest industries in the world is the forgery of historical cultural values, entire manifacturers are a scary business. When I went to Canada, I realized that the first place in income was smuggling both originals of works of art and counterfeits. The second place is drugs, the third place is prostitution. Do you realize what kind of business we're talking about? We are a very small people, and this law must be strict. This law must stop the reproduction, devaluation of works of Bulgarian art, masterpieces of Bulgarian art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? Professor Stanilov, come in. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u107	A similar attitude to monuments must be separated, separated. With paintings is one thing, with archeological monuments is another. Because an archaeological monument can be identified for decades and after all the first one who identified it and made a mistake must send it to prison, and those who repaired it, some of them also in prison, also with fines and so on. It's a very hard, very difficult and responsible job. For the paintings, otherwise I agree completely. I know pretty much the whole situation, I've always been interested in painting and sculpture. I pretty much know the situation, I even have a book published in France and Italy, and my colleagues sent it to me from there for such cases. The point is that we cannot in the same way sanction completely different materials and quite different cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u108	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u109	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I would not dare to share the unique works of art, modern and cultural heritage. Their value is not determined with time, but with the value of values. A Picasso can't be worth at times more than a cultural value from the XVIII, XVII or XV century. The value is determined by the value of the work itself. Otherwise, I don't see how this levelling will go to waste because one was more valuable, the other less valuable. I believe that art is a unique one to raise the price, because otherwise it comes down to that stupid joke: "How much does this painting cost? Five leva. And the other one? 10,000 because the author died. Well, from tomorrow, write this classic too. He has a masterpiece or no masterpiece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u110	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We proceed to vote on the Commission proposal for a new § 14, after renumbering the paragraphs. Voted 101 MPs: 94, no objection, abstention 7. The proposal has been adopted and the text of the paragraph has been adopted. I give Mrs. Ninova the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u111	Dear Bulgarian citizens, as you already know, the European Commission imposed a fine on the Bulgarian Energy Holding for 77 million. EUR, approximately 150 million. lv. For your information, the Bulgarian Energy Holding is a state-owned company, its management is carried out by a team broadcast and appointed by the government. The fine imposed is for abuse of a dominant position. In the Commission's conclusion and recommendations to Bulgaria are to remove obstacles to the entry of competitors. This will allow the Bulgarian wholesale gas market to function more efficiently, with more sellers and buyers, and perhaps the most important Reactions weren't delayed. I quote Prime Minister Borisov: Our sense of ownership of the system is that if it is not the property of the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian state would be a betrayal and our feeling is such, Mr. Prime Minister In the words of the Prime Minister, the commission has asked Bulgaria to be privatized, the largest Russian, Turkish and all kinds of companies to come and I quote that he, the Bulgarian Prime Minister, has given the pipes to Bulgaria. Mr. Borisov took the position of a patriot, a responsible statesman who protected the national interest. Yeah, but no! Yesterday we asked the European Commission whether it is true that they have allowed themselves to set conditions for Bulgaria. Either you privatize or we fine you! The answer came fast within the day. It was expressed by EU competition commissioner Margrete Vestager. By the way, you know which political family she's from. She refuted the Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's claim and said: "The Commission did not want the privatisation of Bulgartransgaz. The European Commission has insisted on restructuring by removing the cap of the gas supplier and the operator of the gas network. " However, how to do this was left to the decision of the Bulgarian government. It was only important for the European Commission to stop, I quote: the illegal actions of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. What are the conclusions of this situation? The Bulgarian energy holding has committed illegal acts. The European Commission reacted, the Bulgarian government did not. As a result, Bulgaria is subject to a fine of nearly 150 million. lv. In order to justify the inaction, incompetence, violation of the European and Bulgarian laws of his government, the prime minister of the state Boyko Borisov allowed himself to lie that he was given a condition for privatisation. As shown by the European Commissioner's statement, there was no such condition. The results of this situation for Bulgaria: Boyko Borisov, Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria and their government brought Bulgaria into a European scandal. And since, honourable Members, we have very often argued about the present and future of Europe, we have very often opposed that you are drawing the future of Europe, we are almost an anti-European party. I would like to tell you that criticising the European Union is not anti-European but normal. So we did with the Istanbul Convention, with the issue of migration, with double food standards. It's not anti-European, it's normal. But to blame the European Commission on something she didn't want from Bulgaria to save your own skin, this is anti-European! And you will be responsible for this scandal in which you bring Bulgaria to the European Union. Second result: Bulgaria will have to pay the 150 million. BGN, even if continued with a criminal case, with a court procedure. This is where the second lie came from the Prime Minister who said: "The Bulgarian citizens will not pay for it will pay for it. Okay, but where will the Bulgarian Energy Holding get this money from loans that will have to be returned or from its own revenues? What's this revenue coming from, fellow Members? From the services of citizens and companies. And who pays these favors? It's the same citizens and companies again. This is the situation, dear Bulgarian citizens. The government is not a defender of national interest, but are people who are incapable, incompetent to manage the economy, energy and the country. But this is what we, every Bulgarian, pay for from our pocket through the price of gas, electricity and steam, with all the poverty and inequality there is in the country. Here I would like to put a question to the government, although there is no specific attitude to this case, but there is one on this subject. It is not relevant to the body of the European Commission but to the Court of Human Rights. Do you know how much money Bulgaria has been sentenced for during your government and how much we have paid? He has paid every Bulgarian because these fines for violations, for illegal actions of the government we pay them all. You probably don't know! We've requested an official reference from the Ministry of Finance. Bulgarian citizens have sentenced government officials for violating their rights for 15 million. 563 thousand. £961. I quote an official reference from Minister Goranov. That money's paid for! It will be paid now and the 150 million. lv.! My question is: when will you start implementing the laws of Bulgaria? They say this: the official of the State is responsible for the damage he has caused intentionally or in the event of gross negligence of the State or of the citizens through unlawful acts or omissions in or in the event of the performance of his duties. We asked Minister Goranov: "How many regress claims have you brought to civil servants and managers who have caused damage to the state and the people have paid this irresponsibility? " The answer:............................................................................................................................................................... When, dear Mr. Borisov, will you implement the law of Bulgaria and bring regression claims against those ministers and employees who do this to the country and for which the entire Bulgarian people pay? We call on you to do it very quickly, both for those already paid 15 million of which are probably in the cases against Tsvetanov and for those futures who will have to pay the entire Bulgarian people of 150 million. If you do not do so soon, of course, sooner or later will come the time when you will be responsible for this. Because until at least one person pays out of his pocket for his incompetence and incompetence, which has caused damage to the state and to the citizens, this will continue. I am telling you that sooner or later every such civil servant will have a personal responsibility because that is what the law of Bulgaria says. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev. A statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! This is a case that has developed the last three-four years - a violation which the European Commission claims Bulgaria has committed in the period 2007 - 2015. During these years all governments have ruled. It is a pity to use such important topics for the state to accumulate political dividends. In the National Assembly in the last two years, we have held a number of hearings on this topic at open and closed meetings. If Mrs. Ninova as the leader of the largest after GERB parliamentary group in parliament had the desire to get acquainted with the case, she would have learned from her colleagues who participate in the Energy Commission that we were following, not only following, but the National Assembly twice visitedá solutions, Mrs. Ninova, on this case. The National Assembly unanimously rejected Bulgaria's option to admit guilt in this case because we are not guilty. We have not broken the European rules according to all the documents it has in the period 2007 - 2015. I repeat again the period of 2007 - 2015. Not only that, the National Assembly obliged the Council of Ministers to appeal a possible negative decision of the European Commission for the imposition of a fine. In addition, you speculate that the fine, by paying the three companies, will come out of the pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayers. That's not true at all. It is not true at all, because whatever the fines, from whomever they are paid by state companies, they are not a price-forming element in the KEWRC formula. That is, when the KEWRC determines the prices, whether someone has paid or not paid, it does not matter to the KEWRC. It doesn't matter! That's a very simple reasoning from you. Someone was going to pay that money in the end?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I repeat: it's not a price-forming element. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you'd like to come and replicate me from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u114	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u115	Since you ask where the company will come from, the undistributed profits in companies will come from transit revenues paid by a transit company, will come from electricity exports, will come from many other places, but not through the price of electricity or through the price of gas or at any other price that consumers pay. Because I repeat: this is not a component in the price, in the regulated price, for any of the services that the KEWRC determines. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no way that these 75 million will enter the final prices directly or indirectly, and such fines have never entered the final prices. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'd like you to meet Parliament's decisions over the last two years. It is very likely that some of these decisions have also been voted on by you. [[Heckling]] The problem of the conscience of the MPs is whether they come or do not come to work, when they vote or not. [[Applause from GERB.]] It is a fact that this topic has been commented in the National Assembly for the last two years at closed meetings and at open meetings. All details of the negotiation process are clear, reported by both Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and Minister Petkova. The National Assembly has taken decisions on these cases and has entrusted the Council of Ministers with what to do, including an appeal against a possible sanction. That is, we have a decision of the National Assembly which obliges the Council of Ministers to mourn. I repeat: the fine of whatever it is does not enter into the final prices, because the KEWRC does not legally have the right to include fines in the final prices of electricity, gas or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u116	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]] No, Mr. Ermenkov, you have no opportunity to replicate and disagree with this declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u117	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u118	I don't know what you could say in the manner of conduct. Please don't enter this debate after a declaration. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, I only warn you that disagreement can continue to be expressed in the towers under another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u119	Only to you will be the addresses, Madam President. Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to ask you as an intelligent person and knowing how things stand in the country to prevent suggestion from being made. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm gonna have to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u120	Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u121	Madam President, I'm addressing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u122	Yeah, I get it. But you know you're abusing it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u123	To ask you to explain to people that money doesn't come from the air, they come from somewhere and they can't be...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u124	I suggest you explain this in the towers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u125	Madam President, may I ask you to explain to... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u126	Mr. Ermenkov, please! I agree to explain what you say, including energy policy and prices, but not under this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u127	Yes, and so I'm going to ask you to explain that what is not priced goes into the dividend... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u128	Please! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u129	Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u130	Madam President, we have witnessed something absolutely unacceptable, Mr. Ermenkov said something. Each of us could have said much more than Mr. Ermenkov. And I could go out and say that these sanctions were actually imposed for the management time from 2007 to 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u131	Mr. Shopov, you don't have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u132	During this time, two governments of BSP ruled and they were in this scheme!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u133	You don't have the chance!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u134	You rightly noted, Madam President, that... [[the speaker continues to speak with microphones off]] ...should not be allowed into the stands because it concerns a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u135	You don't have that right either, Mr. Shopov. Please, Mr. Shopov! Colleagues, let's get back to work. Mrs. Sawateva, please come in with the next text under the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u136	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission generally supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in Transitional and Final Provisions such as § 15. Proposal from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva. The Commission generally supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in Transitional and Final Provisions such as § 15. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 16 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in Transitional and Final Provisions such as § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u137	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. We're going to vote. We are voting on the just-read motion to reject § 16 because it is reflected in its systematic position as § 15. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u138	The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u139	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to establish a division named "Transitional and Final Provisions." They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u140	The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Persons who, until the entry into force of this law, have requested the identification and registration of movable cultural values from the National Museum of History or from the relevant regional museum and the museum has not carried out the identification and registration may request their identification and registration from another museum in accordance with art. 96, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u141	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create a new § 15. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u142	Proposal of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... The Code of Penalty shall be established by art. 278b1: Art. 278b1 (1) Whoever, in order to obtain for himself or for another property benefit, forges a work of painting, sculpture, graphics or archaeological objects or objects, is punished by imprisonment for up to one year and with a fine from 2000 to 20 000 BGN. (2) With the punishment under para. 1 is also punishable by a person offering on sale or putting into circulation as authentic works of painting, sculpture, graphics or archaeological objects. (3) A person who has given false conclusion, certifying the authenticity of works of painting, sculpture, graphics or archaeological objects or objects, shall be punished with imprisonment up to one year and with a fine of 3,000 to 30 000 leva. (4) If the act was committed by a person in the exercise of commercial activity, the penalty shall be imprisonment up to three years and a fine of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN, as well as deprivation of rights under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. (5) The subject of the crime shall be taken away for the benefit of the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text and the proposal to create a new § 16. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We will now make a final full vote on § 12 with the proposal made by Mr. Danail Kirilov, as well as the proposal we voted and adopted to Mrs. Velislava Krasteva. Vote 96 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're done working under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u144	If I may, Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have worked under this law. Three meetings of the working group were held. I personally thank the President of the Commission, Mr Rashidov, because in a few hours there have been quite a lively debate. After all, the amendments adopted are aimed at liberalising the regimes for the identification and movement of cultural values. This liberalisation, with the so-called changes, has been largely achieved. I hope the practice will show that we were right and have proposed texts within the reasonable framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u145	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. We also thank everyone and ask the referees to look at the renumbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u146	Dear Members of the Parliament, We move to the third point of the weekly parliament's work programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE TERRITORY LAW. Aleksandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 28 November 2018. The first vote was adopted on 13 December 2018. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I am doing a procedure to postpone the debate and vote on the item just reported, and my basis is as follows: according to art. 79, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure and the report of the committee responsible on which they were allocated shall be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting in which they will be dealt with and the same period shall also apply for consideration of the second reading bills. In this case, evident from the report on the second vote, it was submitted to the National Assembly on yesterday at 15.49. Therefore, the 24 hours required by our Rules have not passed, and this report should be considered in this case at tomorrow's sitting. I therefore propose that the debates on this point be postponed for today's sitting, and I ask you to put this proposal to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev to postpone the debate on the reporting point. They voted 107 MPs: 44, against 18, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u149	Dear colleagues! Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Construction in the Area, No 854-01-86, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 13 December 2018. The Act for the amendment of the Law for the Construction of the Area. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for construction of the territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u150	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u151	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to really follow the regulations and force the National Assembly to follow them. Colleagues from the United Patriarchs made an offer. There is no law on which the report has not been made at the time of regulation to be dealt with. Someone put it on the agenda. A postponement procedure is proposed and the National Assembly with absolute carelessness rejects this proposal. And now we are looking at a law, fellow Members, to tell you: in the first vote, one text voted, one paragraph concerning a change of time only, and a second vote, I am looking at yesterday in the Commission 50 new paragraphs, united by all proposals during the year. Tell me: is this serious legislation? [[Reply.]] Okay, it's 32. If it's gonna reduce the severity of the breach, it's 32. And you, Mr. Chairman, allow this violation to be committed in the eyes of the Bulgarian citizens. Since this morning we have been talking about the quality of the legislative process and we are continuing in the same way. Please, really stop looking at this law. My colleagues will get to know the lyrics and tomorrow, when the time is right, we'll watch it again. Before the holidays, let us not do in this room violations one after another within a few hours. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u152	Mr. Svilenski, the National Assembly's work programme has been voted on. Before the previous point on the occasion of the proposal, there was an invitation for a reverse proposal. Please, you should have taken an attitude, and in the end, this is the decision of the House. Sorry, that's the reason we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u153	Colleague, reverse procedure of yours. I would like to say that the Rules contain the text, I quote it by memory: The same time limits apply for a second reading unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. With the vote rejected by colleague Mitev, the will of the National Assembly was again carried out and in this sense the Rules were respected. If there's anything you'd like to comment on in this direction, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u154	Procedure, Mr. Svilensky, and I'm asking you to step out of this. We're listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u155	Mr. Chairman, I'm also asking you to come out of this. I suggest that we get off the subject, stop looking at this point and move on to the next one. It's my procedure. And on tomorrow, when the deadlines are up, let's watch the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u156	It's a procedural proposal. I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u157	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u158	It's basically the same thing. Mr. Svilensky didn't respond, he's doing it now. Reverse procedure, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u159	Reverse procedure. Please respect what we just voted on. There was a deliberate proposal by which the House rejected this proposal, with which to continue to look at this point. To bring in a little more clarification, fellow Members, I would like to say the following: it is indeed true that n has been imported from one paragraph in number of others. I think it became 31 paragraphs, and with the exception of one or two paragraphs of these 31 We have tabled these proposals, which are indisputable, those which the Commission has already supported. However, since it is very important to be adopted by the end of this year, we have also included them in this report, so there is nothing scary or anything that has no longer been discussed in the Commission for months. Please let your colleagues familiarize you with the texts that we have imported, what they are. They have already been supported by the Commission and sufficient time has passed for discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u160	Thank you. I have already announced that Mr. Svilensky's proposal will be put to the vote as a procedural proposal. By its nature, it is the opposite of what has already been voted on. We are voting on Mr. Svilensky's proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 46 against 50, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We'll continue with the report. Are there any statements on the reported text? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a title of the Bill. Vote 118 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the bill is on a proposal from Members of Parliament, I propose that you set up an organization for the two ministers... Petya Avramova and the Minister of Tourism to be invited to the Assembly. There are a lot of issues on which they need to express their opinion, because in the Commission, we had very low-level experts -- this was not the political will of the ministries themselves. I therefore urge the two ministers to invite them, in the break, to create an organization to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u162	We'll respond immediately. Please do what is necessary to invite the two ministers. We're going to take a break, and then we're going to continue working on this bill. Dear MPs, for the holiday several messages. In the Northern lobby will be opened a charity exhibition of the Association of Wild Land with works of talented disadvantaged children, disabled and at risk. In the Northern Foyer Folklore Ensemble "Trakiya" from Plovdiv and Folklore Ensemble "Slav Boykin" from Rakovski will present the folk custom Christmas. At the Club of the National Representative will be opened the charity exhibition Children paint for children. The initiative is part of a campaign of the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. I'm calling a recess until 12:00 p.m. when the meeting will continue. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u163	We continue with the Second Reading Report. You have the floor, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u164	A proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Mladen Shishkov is created new paragraphs from 1 to 20. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dora Yankova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up § 1? 21: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), scaling and sewerage (nets) and facilities outside the settlements and settlements shall be constructed on the basis of plots of land under art. 110, para 1, t. 5. (5) With the parcel plan under para. 4 waitresses shall be established on which construction and planting of permanent crops are not permitted. The terms and procedure for determining the dimensions and location of the waitresses and the special procedure for the exercise of the waitouts shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (6) Persons who build and operate the common water supply and sewerage (nets) and facilities, public state and public municipal property shall be entitled: 1. to the transportation and construction of pipelines and facilities for water supply or waste water extraction and land-based facilities to them; 2. their representatives shall enter and pass through the affected properties and carry out activities in them related to the construction and/or operation of the linear objects under para. 4 and their facilities, including the right to pass equipment through the affected land estates; 3. carry out emergency relief activities. (7) Within the limits of the waitout strips in the affected land properties shall not be permitted: 1. carrying out the construction or planting of permanent crops; 2. conducting conduits of other networks of technical infrastructure, except where permitted by a regulatory act, subject to technical and other requirements. (8) The owner of the affected property shall not be entitled to move the linear objects and facilities built on his property under para. 4. The change in ownership does not cease the restrictions in the use of affected land properties. § 2. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 83a and 83b: Art. 83a. The rights of persons who build and operate water supply and sewerage lines (nets) and facilities shall arise when: 1. the location and dimensions of the service stripes of water supply and sewerage lines (nets) and facilities in the affected properties shall be determined with an effective parcel plan; and 2. a one-off compensation has been paid or paid in accordance with para. 2 at the disposal of the owner and holders of other property rights on the affected property. (2) The determination of the amount and payment of the one-off benefits shall be made in accordance with art. 210 and 211. The appeal of the amount of compensation by the persons concerned shall not prevent the exercise of the rights under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the (3) The amount of the compensation under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined when applying the following criteria: 1. the area of the affected land property included in the boundaries of the waitrate strips; 2. the types of restrictions of use; 3. period of limitation; 4. the fair market valuation of the property or part of it which falls within the boundaries of the waitout strips. (4) Regardless of the compensation under para. 1, t. 2 persons who build and operate water supply and sewerage lines (nets) and facilities are obliged to recover any damage caused on the property and pay the owner monetary compensation for the restrictions on its use outside the service lines for the time of actual construction. (5) The servitude stripes defined by the detailed design plan shall be reflected in the cadastral according to the order of art. 31a of the Cadastral Law and the property register. Art. 83b. (1) The provisions of art. Art. 83 83a shall also apply in the case of reconstruction or major repair of existing water supply and sewerage lines (nets) and facilities when changing the route, scope and boundaries of the waitwood stripes applied in a cadastral map, specialized map, cadastral plan or map of the restored property. (2) By the ordinance referred to in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The conditions and procedures under which existing water supply and sewerage ducts (nets) and facilities may have additional (substitute) water supply and waste water discharge lines. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 and 4 before the word "Customs" is added. 2. In para. 6 the words.. by paying only the actual costs incurred for the creation of copies of the documentation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124a is created. 9. The development of parcel plans for the elements of the technical infrastructure outside the boundaries of urbanised territories located within the territory of more than one municipality within one area or within the territory of more than one area shall be authorised by order of the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3 or para. 4 on the basis of a job that includes route variants. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence, second words, under art. 124a, para. 5 shall be given by the authorities under art. 124a, para. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 124a, para. The application for authorisation shall be deleted within 14 days of receipt of the request for authorisation. 2. The creation of para. 6: If necessary, the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3 or para. 4 may impose a construction ban on the time necessary for the creation of the plot plans under art. 124a, para. Nine, but not more than two years. The imposition of a construction ban shall suspend the application of common and detailed spatial plans within the scope of the affected land estates under the adopted version of a route on which an environmental assessment has been carried out. The order to impose a construction ban shall be notified by a notice promulgated in the Official Gazette and may be appealed in accordance with art. 215........................................................................................... § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 is created a new para. 4. The operating companies shall provide the necessary data for the development of the job and of the supporting plan free of charge within 14 days of their request. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 6, p. 2 Finally added s/or limitation of ownership rights on land estates. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. 2 the words "and operating companies" shall be deleted. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128, para. 6 words and operating companies shall be deleted. § 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 128a: Art. 128a. (1) The agreement of the assignments, of the proposals for amendment of detailed planning plans and of the draft design plans and their amendments to the operating companies shall be carried out by the mayor of the municipality or by the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3, 4 and 6. The operating companies shall provide the requested information, reasoned objections and prescriptions within 14 days of the request. (2) Where the design of a detailed planning plan or its amendment is initiated by persons under art. 124a, para. 5, the mayor of the municipality, respectively the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3, 4 and 6, within 7 days of receipt of the application, send the draft assignment to the sketch under art. 135, para. 2 to operating companies which are obliged to provide the necessary data and prescriptions for the design of the project concerned within 14 days. (3) Within 7 days of the submission to the municipality of the project of a detailed planning plan or its amendment by persons under art. 124a, para. 5, the mayor of the municipality, respectively the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3, 4 and 6, send it for coordination of operating companies which are required within 14 days to coordinate the project, to make reasoned objections or to give additional prescriptions. (4) In case within the time limits laid down in para. 1 and 3 an operating company did not present a reasoned objection, it is considered to reconcile the project without comments. § 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 129 is After the entry into force of the order for the approval of a detailed design plan for technical infrastructure sites located in the territory of more than one municipality within one area or within more than one area, the mayors of the municipalities concerned shall issue an order for the official coverage of those sites in the common construction plan in force for the territory, without amending the plan. Where other changes to the general planning plan are required after the coverage of the technical infrastructure objects, they shall be made under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure for its amendment. § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 7 Drafting a new detailed development plan or a draft amendment to the detailed development plan shall be authorised by the authority competent to approve the draft common design plan or an amendment to a common development plan in force and for the Sofia Municipality by the municipal council. 2. The creation of para. 9. In the process of designing a common design plan or a project to amend a common design plan, the design of a detailed design plan under art. 124, para. 9 shall be authorised by the authority referred to in Article 9. 124a, para. Three and four. The authorisation to draw up a detailed design plan shall be granted to the authority competent to approve the draft common design plan or the draft amendment thereto where it is different from the authority which granted the authorisation. The authority competent to approve the draft common design plan or the draft amendment to the common design plan shall reflect the technical infrastructure site in the draft common design plan or in the draft amendment to the common design plan. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created a new t. 6: It's six. it is necessary to comply with an approved parcel plan authorised on the basis of art. 124a, para.9. 2. In para. The second sentence is finally a comma and is added to it except for the cases referred to in Article 3. 124a, para. 9.................................................................................. 3. A new para is being created. 8. Without changing the construction plan and without changing the intended purpose established by the regulation plan, in accordance with para. 6 can be allowed from high in medium and/or low and medium in low character building. The visas issued do not change the predictions of the existing development plan. Buildings authorised on the basis of them may be constructed and/or upgraded up to the volume of predictions of the existing construction plan or removed in accordance with art. 53a. 4. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9. § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the word "14 days" is replaced by "one month." 2. In para. 5 are created sentence two and three: "If there is a basis under art. 134, para. 1, t. 6 The competent authority under para. 1 Orders a formal draft to amend the existing common and/or detailed planning plan to align them with the approved parcel plan authorised on the basis of art. 124a, para. 9. The order shall be issued within one month of the entry into force of the parcel plan. 3. The creation of para. 7. The orders under para. 3 and 5 shall be notified to the interested parties under art. 131 in the order of art. 124b, para. 2. § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' and the second sentence is deleted. 2. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 134, para. 6 and 7 and 7 shall be replaced by the following: 134, para. 6, 7 and 8. 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The design visa is issued by the chief architect of the municipality, respectively by the district governor, by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The visa for the design of special sites related to the defence and security of the country is issued by the Minister of Defence, by the Minister of Interior, by the President of the State Agency of National Security and by the Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence when referring to the sites of the ministry or agency concerned. The design visa shall be issued within one month of receipt of the application under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 16. In Chapter Eight, Section I is created art. 140a: Art. 140a. (1) In the application under art. 140, para. 1 the contracting entity or the person authorised by it may request that the design visa also provide the source data necessary for the design and connection to the networks of the technical infrastructure by the relevant operating companies by describing its investment intention. (2) Within 7 days of its receipt, the competent authority under art. 140, para. 7 sends the application under para. 1 to the operating companies to provide the requested output data necessary for the development of the investment project and the conditions for joining the networks of the technical infrastructure. (3) Within 14 days of receipt of the application, the operating companies shall provide official opinions to the competent authority under art. 140, para. 7 containing the requested ones in the application under para. 1 output data required for the design and conditions of accession. (4) The exit data and the conditions of accession shall contain the technical parameters and requirements of the company concerned to the facilities in the joined establishment, a scheme indicating the way and place of accession, the necessary wait-zones of the accession facilities, possible periods of accession, and other data specified in the regulations under art. 84, para. Art. 3 and Art. 116, para. Art. 7, Art. 125, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 196, para. 1 of the Energy Act. (5) Within three days of the submission of all the output data under para. 4 of the operating companies the competent authority under art. 140, para. 7 informs the applicant under para. 1 which may object within three days. (6) In the absence of objections within the period laid down in para. 5 the competent authority under art. 140, para. 7 issues the design visa. In the event of objections, the procedure under para. 2 and 3, and the applicant shall not make a repeated objection. (7) In the visa for design under para. 6 except for the data under art. 140 source data and conditions for joining the technical infrastructure networks shall also be included by the operating companies. (8) The design visa under para. 6 is the basis for the conclusion of contracts with the operating companies for temporary water supply at the construction site during construction and/or temporary electricity at the construction site when the property is not supplied with power, and of contracts for connection to the networks of the technical infrastructure under the conditions specified therein, if the contracting entity submits the investment project for coordination and approval within one year of its entry into force. Operating companies may not set additional conditions to aggravate the contracting entity. Where, within one year of the entry into force of the design visa, the contracting entity does not submit the investment project for coordination and approval, it should ask the operating companies to provide it with new source data and conditions for accession in accordance with the procedure laid down in the regulations under art. 84, para. Art. 3 and Art. 116, para. Art. 7, Art. 125, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 196, para. 1 of the Energy Act. (9) The model of the application under para. 1 shall be endorsed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in coordination with the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. § 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143, para. 1, t. 3 is canceled. § 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. For issuing a certificate for carrying out the activities under art. 166, para. 1, t. 1 The National Building Control Directorate requires by official means a document for recognition of acquired higher education in foreign higher education, issued by the National Information and Documentation Centre. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 5, 6, 7 and 8. § 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. 2 after the words they have the right to carry out.................................................................................................... 83b. § 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 237 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: In the event of non-compliance with the obligations under art. 125, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 128a and under art. 140a, para. 3 The mayor of the municipality, the governor of the district, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" or the Chairman of the State Agency "Study" imposes a penalty on the respective company of 1000 BGN. weekly until the obligation is fulfilled. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. 1 and para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the § 21. In the additional provisions of § 3, para. 2 is amended as follows: The costs of administrative and technical services which provide the operating companies in the process of investment design and construction authorisation shall be provided by the Commission for energy and water regulation under the conditions of art. 7a of the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The tariff shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published on the Commission's website for energy and water regulation, as well as on the websites of the operating companies in its part for the company concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any statements on the reported texts? For procedure? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, you did not inform the National Assembly of the lack of the two ministers we invited before the break. After all, typical in the style of the current government, at the last moment between first and second reading, in the dark, behind-the-scenes, without public discussions are imported and offered important changes and ultimately had to at least the ministers to come, to explain what these changes required in order to really become one debate, so please inform the National Assembly of the reasons for the lack of the two ministers. To inform you that eventually, when the Law is passed, it will be too late.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u167	Thank you. An invitation was made, an insistent invitation was made to Mrs. Angelkova and Mrs. Avramova. They're both engaged for the moment, they can't respond to the insistence. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This invitation was made in due course, perhaps since their program does not allow it. Are there any statements on the reported texts? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create paragraphs 1 to 21 with texts that have been reported and which include, in principle, the supported proposals of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Dora Yankova. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u168	I'm the only one. In § 149 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area (prom., SG No. (a) the Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Mladen Shishkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Paragraph only, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u169	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The general development plan of a municipality is a strategic management tool for implementing the policies of a municipality. The common design plan is the basis for its sustainable, long-term, spatial development and shows the vision, objectives and strategies for this development. With the delay, this time being proposed to be two years, instead of having prepared plans at the beginning of 2019, it is assumed that they will be drawn up at the beginning of 2021. This further delay in the preparation of the common planning plans is not due to our poor legislation, but to the lack of administrative capacity by the governors. The municipalities were obliged to draw up common planning plans by the beginning of 2016 with legal changes adopted in 2012. They had to determine the purpose of the individual territories as integrated development plans on the basis of which they could obtain European funds. Most often the delay is due to slow coordination with the Ministry of Culture in order to comply with the provisions of the Cultural Heritage Act. A significant delay shall also be generated in the competent authorities complying with the Environmental and Water Protection Act and the Biodiversity Act. From 2011 to 2018, the reasons are almost the same. And now, 30 days before the deadline has expired, you realize that there is actually a problem and you think that with the last-minute changes we will compensate for a job that has not been done since 2011 until now. However, since 2015, 9 million have been given. lv. for the preparation of common planning, the work continues to slow down, and the justifications are the same. Currently from 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, only 75 municipalities have actual common planning for their entire territory. At the time of the award of most of the general planning plans of municipalities there was an adopted National Concept for Regional Development, but there were no regional planning schemes drawn up, that is, there is no one level of planning. This led to the work of a piece without an overall vision of regional and regional policy. Legislative amendments to the law that we are about to vote have been tabled in 12 without 5 from a group of MPs - once again without the corresponding concerted and public discussion - and will not solve the problems in the sector, on the contrary. What you're offering us in no way gives us the development of spatial planning. You propose that we adopt changes that are not supported by any expert analysis. You are proposing that we adopt changes in order only to continue the promiscuity of redeployment of agricultural land from municipalities in which no common planning has entered. The changes that you are now proposing will in no way solve the problems. On the contrary, they are deepening existing ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines? I can't see. The people's representative, Pavel Shopov, expressed a wish to speak. Here you go, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm listening and I wonder what this storm is about again in a glass of water! I have a feeling that the headquarters of Positano wrote here some reports that are being read. At least read them smoothly, not by crosswording and error! What's this about? Again, for opposition to an issue that is purely domestic. There can be nothing political in it, colleagues from BSP! From the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery are made cadastral plans and territorial devices in the settlements, and the lands outside the settlements, and this is a process that is long, complex. It's a technological process. It takes years, decades, as you can see, more than 140 years of this activity. And now because of the simple opposition you are jumping right now and again the Punic War on issues you need to go into tone in understanding of things that you have not done either. For all your six governments after the beginning of democracy, 45 years before that these are processes, actions, activities that are domestic planning activities. I can't understand what it's like to fight again, to jump again, to talk again?! I have a feeling that the statements written by "Positano" for simple opposition are written about some of you not standing in the category of fish. Some of you, who have not yet seen on the stand, have a hand, come out on the stand, speak out, so that they do not pass under that section of the committee of unknown MPs, who have not yet come out and spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u173	Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Nenkov asked for the floor. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the debate is undoubtedly very complicated. I have undoubtedly stated several times from this tribune and in the Commission that the mechanical extension of such deadlines is not generally a good practice. However, when we talk about common planning, it is a pity that colleagues and pre-talkers from a while ago, when we go out on this platform and somehow things are getting very different from when we talk in the couloirs or at the Commission, if you will, where we are actually looking or trying to find some consensus and some understanding between us on a subject that is not with any political taste, but for purely objective reasons this process in many of the municipalities, we are talking about planning is not finished. I didn't want to be naked, so I prepared a statistic. The previous BSP colleague said that 75 municipalities are active, common planning entered into force, but also at the moment, just to tell you: from 2015 with the MRB, concluded implementation contracts, with the financial assistance from the state, 32 pieces; for 2016, again with the MRB, concluded contracts with 105 municipalities; 2017. 4 pieces; 2018 6 municipalities. You have even 15 municipalities that during the reign of Prime Minister Oresharski have concluded contracts with the Ministry of Investment Design, which was created at the initiative of the then existing coalition and majority. It is very important that we take the situation seriously, as all these municipalities are in some process of adopting common planning. You know the procedure isn't easy at all. Yes, right, twice the deadline is being extended; yes, it was difficult for both the legislator and the executive to instigate this process, because until a few years ago the municipalities did not recognize this problem at all, or at least the majority of them. There was a case where they didn't have a financial opportunity. That is why, with your support, we once agreed to have an average of 5 million in the budget each year. BGN to go for planning only so that these municipalities, which I defined, can conclude such agreements with the Ministry, so that they can be financed. Now we are really facing a serious case, because you clearly need to come out and tell this tribune: if we do not extend this deadline today, it has entered into force since 1 January 2019 and we cannot proceed with amendments to detailed planning in extra-urbanized territories, then we can, to a large extent, violate the economic interests of many municipalities and thus undermine the investment process. I am categorically for planning for each municipality to have its own planning plan, but indeed there are also objective reasons why municipalities have failed to reach its final adoption. Whether it will be public procurement, where it is slowing down, whether it will be the output data that they need from the various state institutions, there is also a delay with the Ministry of Culture, with the Ministry of Environment and the years - these are objective reasons why the municipalities themselves, even if they want to, are delayed in some of these processes and moments. As far as municipalities are concerned, last time I said: there were 15 municipalities in statistics that only adopted a decision of a municipal council but did nothing more to avoid some penal penalty that might be imposed on them under the Law. For these municipalities, I agree, we need to find a way to close the scissors. There's another bill to amend the Code of Conduct on the territory that we're going to be looking at, I guess, at the beginning of next year. There to find some balance, so that more and more we close this opportunity for municipalities to proceed without planning. But we cannot, lightly, simply because we are opposition, ignore these objective circumstances that we face. I am sure that every other majority, whoever is in this room right now, would have done the same thing because we have no alternative. Yes, Parliament is placed in this situation, but otherwise it means that we are stopping the investment process in many of the municipalities and punishing them for not only thanks to them, but also because of other objective circumstances have failed to accept their common planning. I appeal, my fellow Members, to reason, to escape some of the political opposition and to support the text, as we have proposed with our fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Bonev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, in no way is anyone trying to stop investment design and investment planning. It comes down to the fact that by limiting the deadline for adopting common planning plans, as you yourself said, only 13 municipalities have not accepted common planning plans, have not even made any proceeds to do so. This is where the disciplinary effect is sought, because even if the deadline is not extended, remaining until 1 January 2019, the only limit it will suffer is for these individual tiny properties to be redeployed without looking. Because even now, in the current law, it is generated how to do so in the absence of an active plan, the construction and redeployment of territories outside the urbanised.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u177	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u178	I agree very much with you, Mr. Bonev. If there are 13, or 15 municipalities, I think the percentage is quite low compared to 265 municipalities. We should not lightly punish those who are conscientious in accepting their plans. I believe that a very large part of these municipalities are moving precisely towards the adoption of these plans. It was no accident that I just read the information that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provided to us. The bill, which has been tabled by me and a group of MPs, is fully supported by the Association of Municipalities. The very fact that these municipalities have concluded an agreement with the MRB and have deadlines for implementation, I hope they will be respected, but these agreements must be implemented anyway, because it is about financial support for these municipalities. We are talking about units of municipalities that are not adopted with common planning or are at least already in the final stage of adoption. Again, I call on: we should not punish those municipalities who are willing, recognize the problem, fight different administrative obstacles, go in this direction. We shouldn't punish them for not being conscientious in 15 municipalities. In my opinion, we can seek some kind of compromise and consensus for them so that we can limit them more and more. I hope they will watch today's debate and be aware of the awareness that there is no turning back and that they must go in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u179	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer to create a single paragraph which becomes § 22. Vote 108 MPs: 85 against 14, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u180	Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Mladen Shishkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u181	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote on the name of the division. They voted 105 MPs: for 76, against 14, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u182	Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Mladen Shishkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up § 23 "33: ..................................................... The service stripes of existing water supply and sewerage lines (nets) and facilities of public state and public municipal property shall be reflected in the cadastre according to art. 31a of the Cadastral Act and the property register with the size and location of the restricted area defined in the ordinance under art. 13, para. 1. § 24. (1) The orders referred to in art. 84, para. Art. 3 and Art. 116, para. Art. 7, Art. 125, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 196, para. 1 of the Energy Act shall be brought into line with the provisions of this Act within two months of its entry into force. (2) Within the term under para. 1 The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall accept the tariff for the prices of services under § 3, para. 2 of the additional provisions. § 25. (1) The proceedings initiated for the preparation of draft planning plans or projects for the modification of spatial plans which have not been completed until the entry into force of this Act by issuing an act approving them shall be completed in the current order. (2) The proceedings under para. 1 for which, until the entry into force of this Act, authorisation has been granted by the competent authority for the design of the project concerned. §26. (1) The procedures initiated for the coordination and approval of investment projects and for the granting of a construction permit which have not been completed until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the current order. (2) The proceedings under para. 1 for which, until the entry into force of this Act, an investment project for coordination and approval has been submitted by the competent authority and/or for issuing a building permit. The existence of an investment project agreed by the competent authority shall also be considered to have been initiated. § 27. (1) The procedures for issuing visas for designing until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the current order. (2) The proceedings under para. 1 for which an application for a design visa has been submitted until the entry into force of this law. § 28. In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 t. 5 is repealed; (b) in para. 2, p. 2 (a) (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (b) the words (c) the words (c) the words (c) the words (c) 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 54, para. 1, t. 5 "7" shall be replaced by "chl." 54, para. 1, t. Six and seven. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 all over the words. The following are added in point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 words with a diameter of less than 1500 mm shall be deleted. § 29. In the Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. (c) in § 68 of the transitional and final provisions, the words § 30. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The appeal of the related acts shall be carried out at the location of the municipality in whose area the obligation arose under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. § 31. The legal proceedings under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which have not been completed until the entry into force of this Law, are completed in the current order. § 32. In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) in § 41, t. 3 of the transitional and final provisions, the words.. 1 January 2019..... 1 January 2021................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ § 33. The Law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We strongly object to § 32. The proposal belongs to colleague Danail Kirilov and I hold in my hand the proposal to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Commission. In your motives on t. 3, in which he proposes an amendment to the Law on concessions, there is nothing as a motive. Yesterday I listened very carefully to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, the reasons of the MP and I did not get the impression why we should extend the deadline under the Law on concessions in the part of the Black Sea coast. Following logic, honourable Members, on 16 November 2017 the National Assembly adopted the Law on concessions. To date, we have about a year and two months of opportunity for the Council of Ministers as a whole to arrange for the Law on concessions to enter into force in the part of the Black Sea coast. Since § 34 of the Law on concessions is to be entered on 1 January 2019, an extension of the two-year period is currently proposed during this bill. And what is written in § 34? The obligations to the Minister of Tourism............................................ to the Minister of Tourism............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Now we have no explanation why not from 1 January 2019 the Law on concessions will begin to function in its entire set and apply by the Council of Ministers, and by two years we will extend the term and the Law on the Black Sea coast will remain in the old regime There's something here that we can't understand. It was no accident that we wanted the Minister of Tourism to come and say what this required. The Minister of Tourism doesn't want it, the Prime Minister doesn't want it, a member of parliament wants it and maybe supported by you. This requires us to suspect that there are certain interests here, honourable Members. What are these interests? Perhaps in a moment, my colleague Kirilov before the National Assembly will give reasons for why this proposal is. So we categorically assign and believe that the Law on concessions, which we had many notes on, should be applied in its set. In this case, we will not support such a proposal to have an amendment to § 32. Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you to put to separate votes § 32. I think the Commission also had considerations on the paragraph relating to waste management. If I am not mistaken, in the Budget Act, we have ruled on the request of municipalities under the Waste Act. Here, colleague Stoyanov, who did not come to the Commission again, is good to motivate why again and in this bill we extend the deadline under the Waste Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u185	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u186	Mrs. Chairman, my line is to Mrs. Yankova! Mrs. Yankova, I think you should have reminded the audience that when there was no minister, it was good to come some deputy minister to defend this position. Why has it happened so that this regulation has been appealed, why has it happened so that it has not been properly made? Someone has appealed to it, someone is not satisfied, but apparently others will be satisfied with this extension? Mrs. Yankova, you should have mentioned and addressed the President of the National Assembly to ask a competent executive to come and explain to us what this is about. After all, when we set some deadlines, are we going to extend them again? Is this the competence of the executive power not to be able to make one regulation in two years or do you need smaller deadlines? Let us be clear so that we know how to support this proposal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Second line, Mr. Prodanov, third line, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u188	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yankova, you rightly mentioned the fact that when the Law on concessions was adopted, how was the exception made for the beaches that there was enough time to be included in a regulation and everything to be as it should be. You have concerns about the fact that there is something behind the scenes in this proposal to extend the deadline by another two years. Since the Minister is missing and there is no one to answer you, I will try to answer you. The aim of this change is that in the next two years, which represent this extension of the deadline, a large part of the concessions will expire so that these concessions can be concluded, made long-term in the current form by the current minister and in the current way. From there on out, whatever changes, it's gonna be pointless, because it's gonna happen in a long time. I think this is what these changes are about, and that is why I will vote against them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Kirilov for the third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u190	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yankova, it was perhaps more correct to take a statement to answer all questions, because these questions are not discussed for the first time. In the discussion in the Regional Commission, I put the tape back in time, I explained what the debates were a year ago, I explained that under the Law on concessions there are sectors in which we excluded the application of the Law on concessions, in view of the specific peculiarity of the subject matter. Even then the dispute began over whether to apply the newly established regime in the Black Sea Coast Act, or again this regime to enter into the new general provisions, which are the Law on concessions. At that time, the Ministry of Tourism justified in detail the difference in the specifics of the concession on the beach, explaining also the economic elements of the concession. This whole argument was fought, as you correctly calculated, a year and two months ago. Then we talked in detail and made this decision for an extension by one year. What's the change this year? As I had warned you then, there were four pending procedures. I believe that we have made the right decision not to change the Law in order to end the disputes in these proceedings. Now, in the debate in the Regional Commission, it is added that the ordinance of the Ministry of Tourism has also been challenged. My colleagues were right to ask about my procedural prognosis. I can't do that, but since there is an appeal under the law, it is obvious that there are disputes. In this situation, it seems appropriate to extend the extension over time. Why two years? We talk about this a lot today. I took a symmetrical, by analogy.. and in the previous provision, the extension, which is the modus of this bill, is by two years, and this is the more normal forecast to conclude a controversial relationship. However, no one here pleads for the waste, which is also a matter of delay on duty. Thank you. I missed, made a statement that I didn't have any personal, private, corporate or any interest in beach procedures and at all beaches. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u192	Mrs. Chairman! There is no dispute that in the Law on concessions with § 34 you gave special status on the beaches. But I keep going, I think it's being abused, that a regulation is being pitied. None of us do. We have some motives from you under § 3, which you verbally expressed yesterday. After that, we have reasons on which I would like to share with the National Assembly that when the beaches from the Regional Ministry of Tourism were transferred, the Minister of Tourism made a glamorous report that there would be a territorial planning scheme, that there would be high portfolio beaches, that there would be social beaches, that there would be a bunch of things. If I take this note out of the Commission meeting and we have a debate here, what is done nothing! Even yesterday I rudely said we were being bullied by the Commission. Now we must agree with two more years to extend the deadline. Why? Paragraph 34 gives its special operation on the beaches by 30 April the Minister will make the scheme, will enter the rents, in the auctions. Colleagues, we will follow in these two years which concessions expire, which concessions will proceed, that is, there is a hidden interest here that I do not wish you to legitimize. Let the Law on concessions take effect from 1 January 2019 and in the part of the Black Sea coast and there is no problem at all. The Minister will somehow be able to manage the rent and will have opportunities to work accordingly. Quite different is the waste policy in which we abstained. The mayors are not ready to enter elections, there is no analogue, 2019 is in elections, the new mayors are coming, they will have to consider politics. This is a different view, and what is more, that they also asked the census to comply with the recent debate on the census itself, which will have the opportunity to support them in terms of property. There's no analogue. Colleagues, I urge you, let us abide by the laws, and let us not now do an analog extension of the deadline. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. A statement. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I strongly disagree with the introduction of § 32, which is actually postponed for two years by the application of § 34 of the Law on concessions. The colleagues on the left, without knowing it, as Mrs. Yankova said, but they felt there was something here to cover. What is it? By delaying the introduction into force of § 34 of the Law on concessions, the application of the Law on Sea Beaches is actually postponed, that is the essence. It is postponed for two more years, and management and management continue to be in accordance with the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. That's the nail here, that's what it's all about. Why is that supposed to happen? Because the Law on concessions, which I dare say is quite successful, introduces two requirements, or in general, two lines in the implementation of concessions. One is the one that guarantees transparency, the publicity of documentation and everything that relates to concessions. The second one is connected to control. These two lines are actually not in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, which was adopted by you I don't know by whom I wasn't here, but this law allows in both directions practically a negative result. Specifically, I quote: a clause has been introduced in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, according to which the documentation relating to the competition for concession award is confidential. That's the difference. The concession law adopted last year requires publicity and transparency of this documentation. That's the difference between the two laws. The second big difference between the two laws is about control. At present, control is exercised by the Ministry of Tourism, in general terms, by some other institutions, however, in episodes. In the Law on concessions, the control is entrusted to the Coordination Council of concessions, which may issue checks to the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, to issue specific checks. Go, check whether the concession is executed or not for this beach. The Ministry of Finance shall provide an indication of the financial and economic conditions of the competition and shall also have the right to send an observer to the Tender Commission. Currently, the Tender Commission in the Ministry of Tourism is a black hole closed. No one can go in there, be present, let alone leak information from the inside. Thirdly, the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Agency is entrusted with exercising independent external control over procedures. It's under the new law. The Agency for State and Financial Inspection and the Court of Auditors shall also be entitled to checks and controls. And all these units, which under the Law on concessions can exercise control over the concessionation of the beaches, cannot do so under the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast. That's the big difference. That's it! As a result of the request to continue the implementation of the Construction Act on the Black Sea coast, two more years will continue the distribution of concessions in the dark, as well as until now, under the direct direction of the Ministry of Tourism, which holds the concessions folders in a special room with cameras. Legends also tell of other criminal circumstances surrounding this extremely, incredibly valuable state information of the highest degree of secrecy. That's the most classified information! In addition, when tenders for concessions on beaches are held in the current order, all participants are obliged to sign a confidentiality declaration. They can't get any information out. This enables competitions to take place in the dark, opaque, and the results of these contests, unfortunately, are weeping. Now a little bit of the facts. For the past year, for which we have postponed the application of the Law, please excuse me, not to put myself in the group of sinners, you have postponed the application of the Law on concessions! Twenty concessions have been given for the past year for the beaches. For only 12 of these 20 concessions [[the President signals that time has run out]] , if you can extend the time to finish.. only 12 of these beaches have actually appeared a single participant in the concession procedure. It's a breakdown! It's a ruin of democracy and everything! This will continue. We have cases where three companies have appeared for one beach on the southern Black Sea coast with offers: 600 thousand, 450 thousand, 300 thousand. You know who won?! Three hundred thousand that they're offering. We have a number of other cases where the mastery of the fast-growing golden territories is actually very successful taking place along the line of tri singularity of the beach by groups, by successors of former groups. This will continue if we continue to postpone the implementation of the Law on concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, we on the left felt that something was wrong with the Legal Commission during the review of the Law on concessions, where your representative had been arguing with a representative of the Ministry of Tourism for a very long time about what and how it should happen. After all, in the Legal Committee it was also with our votes that the new order should apply to these concessions. We did it on the Legal Committee, but here in the Chamber, it was postponed according to the same methodology. And we highlighted it, including from this tribune. You say and are right that more transparency and control will be ensured with the new order. You're saying you don't want to. My request to you is to say: why not? What's the reason? Who is interested in this because, when we postpone, and this is also the subject of my reply, one or two years of this text, on which concessions are given for up to 20 years, this means that certain beaches will be concessioned and the entry into force of the new law for them will not be by one or two years, but will be by ten, twelve, fifteen or depends on the corresponding concession. There are several questions here that need to be put to the Ministry of Tourism, which clearly defend the thesis of the majority, which supports it in this House, a majority which does not fully respond to the majority, which supports the government, as you have proved. Why are these people doing this? What's the reason: (a) consider that the Black Sea is better managed; or (b) Anyone benefit at the expense of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u198	Dear Mr. Simeonov! What do you have against Santa's presents? It's Christmas! These muscular intellectuals are hungry! What do you have against these guys winning the beach stripes in the dark, wet, free? Isn't that right? Well, it's Christmas! Shame on you! [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] They'll starve to death.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u199	Get to the point, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u200	Well, that's the line. So, I think you're wrong, Mr. Simeonov, because the beach stripes are already set. That's the father of the goons in question! Thirty years of the same looking, clicking and saying: "Bravo, this is exactly how you act especially during Christmas. Well, it's Christmas! You're wrong, Mr. Simeonov! You're wrong! Too bad these guys are gonna die hungry. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Prodanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, I remember very well a year ago when we adopted the Law on concessions that you were once again of the same opinion................................ should not be given a period of one year. What you just said, the facts you mentioned in your speech, are the absolute truth. That's exactly what we talked about before you and me. In my previous statement, if you remember, I said that in the end this is the symbolism of today's government "Everything is being done in the dark, behind-the-scenes and at the last moment. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I know it's Christmas. Mr. Simeonov, at the end of the day, I will ask you: What are you doing in this department? After all, these wrong decisions, which are to the detriment of the state and affect the state interest, for them, the same guilt as GERB, you have the same guilt. That's our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u204	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I can tell by the lines. A little too global is the generalization you're doing, Mr. Prodanov. You have the right to do so, but you are wrong to give such assessments from a particular fact. What am I doing at the station? I will answer: good things, which does not mean that bad things should be hidden or supported. This is the answer to your question. To Mr. Zarkov: who wants it, why does he want it? I think I've been thorough enough in my speech. If it's not clear, I just don't know what else to explain. It's clear who wants it. The one who has an interest in behind-the-scenes distribution of concessions, because he's probably profiting from it, has some financial benefits from it or some others. I'm not saying! I have no proof. But that's the circumstances. It's clear why you want it, it's clear who wants it. Rather, it is an interesting question: why was this extension tabled at the last moment, at twelve to five, exactly two working days before the end of the work year 2018, so that it can act as of 1 January 2019? Why is Mr. Kirilov bringing it in? That's also an interesting question. Why doesn't he have motive when he brings it in? Why is a proposal for which there is no motive allowed to be examined in the Commission and then in the Chamber? There are no motives that require this thing that makes me think that Mr. Kirilov should just be careful next time. Mr. Kirilov, one of the most devastating wars in the ancient world was the Trojan War. She took it upon herself, yes, because of a woman. I know your relationship and your feelings, but you must not transfer them into our political relations, because it is not only about the struggle between Menelaus and Paris in your face, but it is about two major parties that should not be allowed to enter into a devastating clash against each other. [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. A statement, Mr. Kirilov, will you? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u206	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, it could also be a personal explanation, but I think it's procedurally more correct so that you can give me lines, so that's why I asked for a statement, although I'm not going to make a full statement in the context of a speech. First, I would like to state the following according to procedure: Minister Angelkova said yesterday and today that she is ready to appear before the National Assembly and to justify the differences in the two regimes under the Law on the Black Sea Coast and the Law on concessions. She's on her way here even one of my procedural doubts is whether I should ask for a break to make sure she arrives and participates in this debate. It is only right that you address questions, not that I answer to you, but that she is responsible specifically for the statistics which Mr. Valeri Simeonov presented to your attention. Again, I haven't checked the number of procedures, so I'm interested in the number of pending disputes. In terms of transparency, it is also a topic that we discussed. The claim of the competent ministry, which applies the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, is that publicity is guaranteed by their specific, specific regulatory act under this law. Yeah, it's the right thing to do, and I think she's gonna take a stand. I strongly object to suggesting some premeditated difference that is beyond the motives that I have pointed out. And then, and now, the motives are as follows. Then there was no strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers. Here Mr. Valeri Simeonov will probably take a cue and will tell how far the Council of Ministers' strategy has reached and how this strategy solves the case in the sector of Tourism. In any event, it could have influenced and placed certain tasks to be achieved in this sector. Once again, the new circumstance is a challenge to a regulation. It is clear that I told it yesterday and the Commission that there are disputes here. However, what makes me as an importer to support this proposal, to justify this proposal, is my belief that at least in this case we will not answer to parliament, to meet a rally of protesting hoteliers before the summer season. That's my argument. In other words, these proposals have the support of the sector concerned in the industry. If Minister Angelkova has not arrived until after the procedure in lines and duplicates, my request will be for interruption until her arrival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u207	Here's a line for you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, let Minister Angelkova come, but she has nothing to explain to us on this occasion, because we explained it, talked, argued, debated and decided at the end of 2017 in favor of the new order. Period! Then the Legislative Assembly has spoken, and since then you have just postponed it by one year, with one more, with two more. So here the question is not just any regime. The regime is set by the National Assembly. The question is when it starts to apply and you don't want to apply it. And not Minister Angelkova will bear the responsibility, you will bear it because you are the importer of this proposal, because because because of you the majority that supported you supported it, because you are putting up with all these tasks, but in recent weeks you are crossing all limits. You're acting like an absolute legislative terrorist. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , surrounded by the norms which have been submitted to him by any administration, and blow up within all the principles of legislation, normity and elementary normality in this country. [[(Wurthy applause from BSP for Bulgaria and shouts: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I will take only one point at a time from your speech that is that the changes were maintained by the tourism industry. That's not true. Someone let you down. It is not because we have even such paradoxical cases in this year, in which closed complexes actually lose the beaches they have managed so far, and receive them third companies that understand that by setting some conditions 10 or 12 BGN. for a sunbed and an umbrella, they can completely destroy the business and activity of these closed complexes. There are already cases like this, and the industry is crying dead. Unfortunately, this is not supported. It is supported by the group of concessionaires. If you remember those fat-necked boys and those girls with the jukes and the silicones who protested against me last summer because they had to be obliged to comply with the noise law, these protest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Milkov's third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u212	Dear Mr. Kirilov, Mrs. Chairman! I'm making a line for you because I don't know if you're a legislative terrorist, but we're not little children, neither the people who are here nor the people to whom this text applies. In our Rules, there is a clear provision for what you can do. And this single MP who filed the text isn't just anyone, he's the head of our Legal Committee. Firstly, this text contradicts both the principles and the scope of the Bill at first reading. We shouldn't be discussing this at all. Not at all! Second of all, he's got no motive. Thirdly, this started to make him not a random person, making him the Chair of the Legal Commission, and this is unacceptable. So don't make us small children, neither us nor the people involved in this process. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u214	Mrs. President, honourable Members, I will comment on the lines that have been made backwards. My fellow Members, I object to the fact that there are no motives. The fact that you do not accept the motives I have presented to your attention is another matter, but I think it is absolutely pointless to repeat the entire debate that lies in the transcripts of this National Assembly. You'll see what the volume is. Mrs. Dora Yankova correctly remembered the debate at one point then. This debate was then detailed. Yes, it is just an extension of the deadline, like in the Commission, and now I say: simply the reasons have not been overcome, on the contrary, have deepened. For a detailed debate, I asked for the inclusion of the minister, respectively, which I accept was wrong of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government yesterday. Minister Angelkova was willing to be at the meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u215	She's on her way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u216	Yes, she is on her way here, so I asked her to take part and answer questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u217	As the debate goes, she'll come, and if not, I'll give it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u218	Regarding Mr. Simeonov's line, I will say this: Mr. Simeonov, I did not know, but from what you said, I started to get my bearings. I didn't realize any closed complexes had problems, suffered, and faced claws. Again, I repeat my application: I do not know any fat-necked concessionaires on the beach stripes or party owners of complexes on the Black Sea. I don't know anyone about this, and I've discussed it only with Minister Angelkova. [[Laughter and lines from the United Patriarchs.]] Of course, of course, can I not discuss it with the Minister of Justice? In addition, you are all referencing to why a Member of the National Assembly is importing it. This is a sector problem that is the executive in this sector. I would also comment on it with Mr. Valeri Simeonov if he continued to be Deputy Prime Minister with this portfolio. Regarding the pathos of colleague Zarkov. That's the second time he's talked like that out of the stands. Assuming that the Rules of Procedure must be strictly applied, I would say that I should be affected because to tell a lawyer that he is a legislative terrorist, I would say that it is a very serious insult. However, in view of the requirement of the standard, I will swallow this insult, but I say: I am changing my whole attitude towards my colleague Zarkov. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I will no longer treat him as a fellow professional, treat him as a Komsomol enthusiast. I wish him...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u219	Mr. Kirilov, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u220	I am also entitled to a personal explanation, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wish him... [[Noise and lines.]] He's in the same position. Then let me ask him: where does he see the grounds for a legislative initiative and what bills does he propose? I can talk a lot about what kind of associate he was at the Internal Affairs Commission. Colleague Lazarov in our day... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u221	Mr. Kirilov, you're talking one minute longer than time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u222	Abort, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't fall, I don't fall. Zarkov fell with that statement. He is a participant in the Commission and cannot speak from this tribune personally in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u223	Thank you. There's a statement from Mr. Mitev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, yes, indeed, unfortunately, today's debates on this paragraph 32 on amendments to the Law on concessions are similar and are kind of repeating the debates we had exactly one year ago, but, unfortunately, nothing has changed the positions of importers then and now. The proposal adopted by the Commission for amendment in the Law on Construction in the territory of the Law on concessions leads, in fact, to a postponement of two more years by 1 January 2021, of the entry into force of § 34 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on concessions. The first delay in substance was the proposal made then in the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, aimed at preserving the status quo with regard to the granting of concessions on sea beaches, a procedure laid down in the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, which, with § 34, whose action was postponed, was actually to pass and be transferred, and to be carried out under the Law on concessions. Unfortunately, the motives we heard a year ago, we hear them now, but with the exception that some of them are no longer, at least in my opinion, relevant. I will therefore allow myself to quote the honourable colleague Kirilov what he said in 2017, namely: First, there are several procedures that are currently unfinished, which are in the judicial stage of appeal. Secondly, several dozen procedures must be launched at the beginning of next season. It's hard for me here to specify an exact number, but between 50 and 70 procedures are for 50 or 70 beaches that run out. If we apply the Law on concessions directly, they will not be able to. First, it enters into force one month after its promulgation. The Law on concessions was published. Secondly, all strategic actions and planning actions must be carried out. Only then can separate procedures be started. This cannot happen within the calendar year 2018. That is, we will put the whole industry, which is engaged in business related to hotels, recreation services and beaches on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast in extremely difficult situation. End quote. What's the difference, though? The first argument for unfinished due to the judicial stage of appeal procedures is no longer relevant. The proceedings on appeals of the procedures under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast are already under the new Law on concessions. The second argument is also not relevant. The Ministry of Tourism had one year of time to study the Law on concessions and to carry out all the necessary actions, both strategic and planning, and the establishment of an organization. As far as I know, on 20 June this year the Strategy by the Ministry of Tourism has been approved without any comments. Also in 2018 since the entry into force of the Law on concessions until now on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism, the Council of Ministers has opened 22 procedures for granting concessions under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, and for some beaches the procedure has been terminated and has been reopened. Action has already been taken by the Minister of Tourism to unilaterally terminate concession contracts which expire over the next 1.. 2 years. The aim is to provide the new concessions for these beaches in the current order. This is because the rules under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act give almost unlimited opportunities to the Minister of Tourism under the pretext of confidentiality to avoid the transparency and publicity provided by the Law on concessions. Under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, the concession documents are not public. The Commission's explanations of this documentation are not public, there are no obligations for publicity of the procedure carried out, including through publication in the National Concession Register of a report on this procedure to disclose to the public how many participants have been involved in the procedure and how many of them have been removed, how many offers and which are the participants with classified tenders respectively. The procedure for granting concessions currently laid down in the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the actions of which it is proposed to continue for the second time does not comply with the basic principles resulting from the concession contract of the European Union, publicity and transparency, including the publication of a notice in the Official Journal of the European Union on concessions of more than 5 million. 448 thousand. lv. It is also a symbiosis between the partially reproduced provisions of the repealed Law on concessions and the rules which constitute prerequisites for subjectivism by the competition committees of the Minister of Tourism, which we will see if we support this proposal for a two-year extension during this two-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u225	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u226	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, listening to you, I get the impression that speaking about the Law on the Black Sea Coast, speaking of the Law on concessions, you are talking to each other, but I did not see much enthusiasm from colleagues, everyone was looking at something of their own, not paying attention to things that are extremely important. My fellow Members, speaking in this way and as Mr. Danail Kirilov said that we are talking about the sector "Tourism" I was under the impression that we were talking about the sector "Culturism." Dear colleagues, this is how they talk about us in a way that shouldn't be spoken of, great cultutors involved in these procedures. So the rest of the little beaches will be dedicated for many years to a concession for the coming years, and then whatever the sword shows. The reasons why two years of applying the rules of the Law on concessions are that these rules are not ready. They're not ready or the interest doesn't have to be ready. This is something that could have happened by now and could have happened immediately, but obviously interest does not require this. If we now want to understand what lies ahead, we need to ask ourselves how many beaches are left, honourable Members. A little. Do these concessions come in, then what's left? Mr. Mitev, we're talking about the rules for implementing the Law. However, when muscularly concession technologies enter the relevant office, then non-information and opaqueness are at the heart of these procedures. What's left? They were left to inherit them. So I appeal to Minister Angelkova. Madam Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u227	Your time is up, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u228	...I only ask you not to become a Ministry of Inaction against the application of European rules on concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u229	Thank you. That concludes your line. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kolev, I agree in general with what you said. That was exactly the basis of my speech. First of all, there's no reason to extend the deadline another two years. We have already extended it by one, although I still believe that even this extension was excessive, but all these grounds, which were spoken a year ago and today we heard them in plenary, were discussed yesterday before the Committee on Regional Development, virtually no longer exist. There are no lawsuits. They are already developing under the Law on concessions. With regard to procedures, we see 22 procedures in the expiry of 2018, so there is no reason to postpone the application of the changes included in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act in this § 34 of the concession law. No reason will we not apply the clear, transparent and precise rules of the European directive included in the Law on concessions, and not this foggy procedure that currently exists, allowing concessions to be granted in the dark, and right on the beach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u231	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Veselinov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will propose two procedures: one is to extend our sitting to the vote on the bill. We actually have one vote or two if we separate the relevant paragraph. At the same time, the bill is extremely important, as it opens up opportunities for these large projects in the water sector that we expect and, at the same time, significantly controls the administrative arbitrariness of the energy companies and other utilities. This is my first procedural proposal. The second, because of the 33 paragraphs we are discussing, the debate is, in fact, on § 32, I would like to propose that we vote by voting to separate this paragraph from the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u233	That, as I understand it, is Mrs. Dora Yankova's proposal. I will put Mrs. Yankova's proposal to the vote. A counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Iskren Veselinov. Vote 138 MPs: 84, against 48, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] There are no other speeches. Procedure.. Hristo Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, we have made a procedure to invite the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova not to see her, we have seen her before, but to hear from her. Let's hear it on some important issues, like what imposes this speedy legislation, these last-minute changes? What hinders the Ministry for a year and two months so it can't do this regulation? To give us information about these two years, how many concessions are going to expire and how much is to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u235	What's the procedure, Mr. Prodanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u236	Minister's hearing is what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u237	No, that's not on the list of procedural questions. But I understand what you want to put. I'll give the minister my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u238	Mr. Chairman, I told you: we've seen the minister before, we didn't want to see her, and we wanted to hear from her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u239	Thank you. Mrs. Yankova, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. President, since you will give the Minister the floor, in the reasons that were only oral in the Commission, there were no written reasons of Mr. Kirilov and the subject is being turned that there is a regulation that is being pitied, please clarify to the National Assembly which regulation has been grieving, who has mourned it, in which court is it, and in what period of legal proceedings is it so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Any other speeches? Procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is as follows: at the beginning of the sitting I said that this bill is being viewed at one reading. The minister just got here. You now want to close the debate, the minister to say something and still quietly before New Year's Eve all be so voted out. Let's listen to the minister, then finish our speeches, and then when the debate is over, really close it down. My procedure is to hear from the minister and then move on to speeches again. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u243	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. But could you give me the basis? And I'll tell you why. If this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have to make a hearing, and we don't have a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u244	Mr. Chairman, the first and most important reason is that you are in charge of the meeting. There's no greater reason than that. You are currently President of the National Assembly. However, the second formal basis is that during the second vote, the minister can take action at any time and the debates must not be terminated. It can speak two, three, five times and after each speech, so there is absolutely no connection between the termination of the speeches with the Minister's speech. The important reason is that you are currently Chairman of the Assembly and have this responsibility to conduct the meeting as you should... for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens, not the MPs of the BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u245	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Yes, the real responsibility is whether or not I'm going to end the debate. You're right in what you just said that if he wants, the Minister can take the floor whenever he wants. Here you are, Madam Secretary. That's different. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm strictly following the rules, you can't deny it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, let's go from there that the beaches are exclusive state property and the activity related to them has a seasonal character. There are key requirements related to the preparation, management and control of sea beaches. Given that there are a number of contracts that have been concluded at different times in the years, respectively, their deadline expires at different times. This year around 25 procedures were carried out to grant concessions on sea beaches, which also included repeated procedures for those which were terminated because the candidates involved did not meet the conditions, so they were re-enacted. What is important to stress and it is good to see in the provisions of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is that there it is clearly written that the procedure is initiated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on the basis of economic, financial, legal analysis and corresponding clarification of the object of the concession also through geodetic analysis, i.e. technical. A decision of the Council of Ministers shall be adopted on this basis. Also there in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, it is clearly stated that representatives of the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the Council of Ministers participate in the commission. It is clear that the procedure for publicity and transparency with the participation of representatives of different departments to ensure transparent legal choices, however, I stress: those who have requested participation in the procedure. The competition committee has no right to determine how many participants will declare participation in this concession procedure on a sea beach. This happens with a volition of the one who is willing to manage the sea beach, to manage it and to bear the responsibilities that the Law imposes on it. I can't agree that a single candidate or how many were involved in the procedures. As much as they've decided, they've been involved. We have no way of monitoring this issue. Also, when there is someone who disagrees with what the competition committee has determined, he has the right to appeal. We currently have four such pending legal proceedings under these concession procedures which have been carried out within this year. We also have four procedures that are in the process of coordination. I note here that there is no norm in the law on concessions adopted and, to date, to regulate what is going on with these procedures which have already started as proceedings with the Council of Ministers' Decision. If they are not completed.. obviously after there is an appeal, this will not happen until the end of this year. On the other hand, I note that in the next 2019. In the middle of the season, two procedures expire because for this one, a year earlier, we were able to hold all the other 16 who expired in the following year, and in 2020, starting from April to the middle of the season, new 18 contracts expire. It is necessary to make timely organisation and preparation of all documents that require proper management of the sea beach. I note that by March, the Minister of Tourism is required to announce the unguarded sea beaches. The contracts must be concluded for sure by February if we want to ensure then a proper water rescue programme, sea beach cleaning, medical care, which are mandatory activities under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. You know, respectively, that from May 15th onwards the ban on construction goes into effect. That is, if we want to ensure a good summer season, we are obliged to think long-term, preventative, and not at the last moment to do procedures and to rely on that the beaches will then be in a wonderful state and will be able to guarantee the safety and safety of tourists. On the other hand, on the occasion of the new law on concessions and the necessary regulations, I would like to emphasise that the Minister of Tourism does not have the power to initiate the adoption of regulations. This is within the powers of the portfolio deputy prime minister, who is also the chairman of the so-called "concession council." So I cannot agree with the accusations that the Ministry has slept for two years, or rather a year, because the new law has been in operation for one year and has not adopted these regulations. The Ministry of Tourism under the concession law does not have the authority to initiate these regulations. The regulation, which directly concerns the management, control and monitoring of sea beaches, was submitted to the Council of Ministers as a reminder in July or August, but it was appealed by representatives of the concessionaires. I respect the definition of the Supreme Administrative Court, of the three Member States and of the five Member States. You know that a definition of a five-member composition is not subject to an appeal which has determined the suspension of this regulation, in view of the vices it contains, until the ruling on the substance of the Supreme Administrative Court. The case for ruling on the substance is scheduled for the month of January or February next year, and is also subject to appeal, you know very well. The definition of the three-member composition shall be as of 7 September 2018. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of This in any way blocks the work of the Ministry of Tourism, given the special subject matter of the concession. I ask you very much to take into account that the beaches are a special subject of presentation of a concession for a service. It is important to ensure that the management of sea beaches is such as to ensure the smooth beaches of tourists and therefore have the mechanisms with which we can work. If the operation of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is not extended, in practice from the following year the Ministry of Tourism will not be able to fulfil its obligations under law relating to the control of the sea beaches because the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, on the provisions which are not explicitly regulated therein, the Subsidically applies the Law on concessions, the control is fully regulated there. Since there is no regulation governing the rules under which this is to happen, you understand that this largely binds the hands of the administration and the control bodies. It is for this reason that, taking into account the particular subject of the concession and the seasonal character, I would like to emphasise for three years, since the Ministry of Tourism has managed sea beaches, we have increased revenues from 12 million in 2015 to 19 million by the end of this year. The penalties and fines we've collected this year are over 400,000. lv. on the basis of the sanctions imposed. I can assure you that we will continue in the same spirit, but it is extremely important for us to have the legal basis to do so. If we do not extend the deadline, it will become a really big mess in the management of the beaches and literally in ensuring smooth running of the summer tourist season, because, as I said, after 15 May the first tourists are already arriving. You know that the goal of the Ministry of Tourism is to expand the wings of the season and guarantee access to sea beaches. Please note the provisions of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the conduct of procedures. The procedure is extremely clear and transparent. There is a correct description of who is involved, how are the representatives of the individual ministries defined. This is not a procedure that is conducted only by the Ministry of Tourism and its representatives in some kind of room. This is a procedure that strictly complies with the requirements of the special Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast. I believe that what we are achieving as results and the figures that I have informed you prove that we are going in the right direction to ensure the maximum management of sea beaches. On the other hand, there is no way we can force people to apply for these beaches. Whether it will be one candidate or 100 candidates, or 10, it is not up to us to decide on the personal volition of anyone who wants to deal with this activity. With regard to the formation of the concession fee, there is also a special methodology that describes that 40% is the proposed concession fee, 40% is the proposed price of umbrellas and sunbeds and 20% are related to various additional requirements regarding the investment programme, ensuring access, respectively providing a maximum good tourist service. In this way, it is generally determined who is the selected concessionaire, I stress, again, by those who were willing to participate in the procedure. All documents under the Law shall be published. All employees participating in the concession procedure shall also sign confidentiality declarations as required by the Law. I assure you that this is strictly observed. And again, please note that the beaches are a specific subject and require timely planning so that we can have the right course of the summer tourist season. If there are other specific questions on specific procedures, I am ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u247	Thank you, Dear Minister. Speaking, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you have so well described the procedure, only that you have not answered the question: what have you been doing this year since you met with the decision? Why didn't you make a new regulation? As if the court is always to blame for the failures of the executive power, perhaps it is best that the court is not in this country?! It'll be easier that way, no rules will be stopped and so on. Let me ask you: what is it necessary to postpone with exactly two years the entry into force of the beach concessions Act? Why two years? Is that when your term ends? Why not a year? What are the reasons for the delay by exactly two years? And what did you do this year that you didn't do and sleep through it if your court was guilty? These are absolutely untenable arguments that we have heard at the moment, and this does not answer the question: why exactly at the last moment are you introducing these changes at the last minute, at twelve minutes without two minutes, as they say? Until yesterday, literally, what prevented you from making these changes, and you're bringing them into the present moment? Here colleagues justify not knowing thicknecks, etcetera, concessionaires. Well, that's how these changes lead to these conclusions. Unfortunately, that's exactly the point. And I repeat, it is untenable that there are changes due to the court, and by exactly two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In view of the ongoing debate and in view of the false set-up that takes place in this debate, on behalf of the five importers, I withdraw the proposal, which is for § 32. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, do not applaud, because for the next consequence of this debate, please remember, who were you opposed to? From now on comes March month, comes April month and will now clearly identify who is for closed complexes, who is for open complexes or for open trade. [[Noise and lines.]] I think with this behavior, we're giving the minister arguments about his procedural defence from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u251	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u252	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Kirilov, I strongly object to you scaring the MPs we have concerns about. [[Noise and lines.]] We know very well the investors and hoteliers who invest and advertise Bulgaria in this sector. Talk to the minister who accommodates the people, and he knows very well what...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u253	Mrs. Yankova, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u254	...we heard what Mr. Simeonov said. At the moment, against all members of parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u255	Mrs. Yankova, please, what is the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u256	Mr. President, you are obliged to give protection, because if pressure is exercised on these people or anything else by accident, consider that this has been claimed by a member of parliament of the ruling coalition. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u257	I didn't get it that way, dear Mrs. Yankova. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] A statement, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, to join the ranks of those of whom Mr. Kirilov said we would then wonder why we have spoken so. Mrs. Minister, you've told twelve, thirteen minutes of what happens to concessions here. You told me how this was gonna get messy. Probably as Mr. Kirilov withdrew it, it'll be a mess, only the mess has it now. The mess makes it you, the mess makes it the Bulgarian government while accusing yourself of the Ministry of Tourism and Deputy Prime Minister, or who answered that one did not write the regulation and the other was not in the appointments. The Kasha makes her the Bulgarian government! The Bulgarian government is guilty with Prime Minister Borisov. From there on out what you understand inside, who should do it, who shouldn't do it, it's your job. This Parliament has chosen you to rule, not to fight. Mrs. Minister, last year, December 2017 the Bulgarian Parliament made clear its will from which date it entered into force. Why are you changing the deadline by two years today? Where were you last week, two weeks ago, a month ago? Why should Daniel Kirilov offer it? You know hiking, you know beaches, you know how many tourists there are, you know how many concessionaires there are?! You know...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u259	The offer's been withdrawn. Why are we talking about it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u260	Mr. Svilensky, I think we're debating an already withdrawn proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u261	That's right. We are debating because there has to be a debate and Mr. Kirilov very clearly said that we need to know the positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u262	Somehow the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u263	It's not old at all! Because today, Mr. Chairman, within two hours, we're changing two terms. And if you don't mind it, if it doesn't bother you, Mr. Kirilov bothers him. Right. And it's a good thing you pulled it off. I hope this is the last law that will change deadlines without explaining why exactly two years, why it is not one year. You two are fighting, and we have to watch your shit. But not us, Bulgaria, the citizens, the tourists, the concessionaires, if you will, all those you work for. I said, what's the difference? Why should they be given under the Law on the Black Sea Coast and not under the Law on concessions? [[GERB lines.]] You wrote that law, didn't you?! BSP didn't write it. You write a shitty one with an excuse for the expression, a law, and then you say, "We won't do it because the deputy prime minister hasn't done his job." Who should write the ordinance?! Does the BSP have to write you the regulation? Is that what you're waiting for? Or you wait two years because you think that's when the term will expire. No, the term is over, colleagues! The term is over! [[Radio.]] Mr. Kirilov felt very well and drew the proposal. You won't have time under this law to conduct concessions. So it's over. Take care!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there lines? I don't see any lines. Procedure, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u265	Dear Mr President, I would suggest that you put to the vote the text I have read without § 32, and § 33 becomes § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u266	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, other speeches. There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 23 to 33 with the proposal of Mr. Veselinov: § 32 dropped out due to withdrawal from the importers and § 33 becomes § 32. Mr. Svilensky's procedure. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB.]] Mr. Svilensky, I want to warn you that we are...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u267	Mr. Chairman, calm down! The procedure is as follows. Colleagues, the proposal that has been made is a proposal from the Commission, not from Mr. Kirilov. My procedure is to vote against the proposal of the Commission. He cannot withdraw it in the situation we are currently in, because the proposal he has submitted to the Commission is then a proposal from the Commission and not from Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u268	You're right, Mr. Svilensky. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 23 to 31, including in accordance with the Commission's text. Vote 159 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 32 in accordance with the Commission's proposal. Vote 160 MPs: 5 against 93, abstention 62. Paragraph 32 shall not be accepted. I put to the vote § 33, which becomes § 32. Vote 150 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Vesselinoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u269	With this, we also accepted the Second Voting Report. Colleagues, I would like to thank everyone, very much, to the members of the Commission, who, without any politicisation, have adopted some very important texts for all of us relating to the possibility of responding adequately to the challenges related to the upcoming large-scale repairs in the water sector, as well as to the new way in which projects will be agreed and, accordingly, the far easier way to be towards communication companies are voted. I think this was a really big New Year's gift for all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-19.u270	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session is at 9.00 on 20 December under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
