ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u1	Hey, guys. Hey, guys. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, a communication on debate on questioning.. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova postpones participation in parliamentary control on 2 March 2018 due to the use of leave. Orders of art. 105, para. The 2nd sentence of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly requires that the deliberations on inquiry be held in the presence of the respective Minister. The absence of Minister Petkova requires the setting of a new deadline for discussions on questioning No 854-05-4 from 31 January 2018, set by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov, on nuclear energy policy. In the light of the above, I refer the debate on this question to the next parliamentary meeting. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u2	Mrs. Chairman! The procedure shall be in the manner of conduct and in relation to the arrangement of parliamentary control. I very much ask that I be answered without being upset: why and for what reason is Minister Petkova not here at the moment to discuss and hold this debate, because yesterday until 7 p.m. she was in parliament when the topics with Ginka Varbakova and the sale of CEZ were discussed, and now she is not there? I'm asking my very natural question, and I hope you will answer me, Madam President. Madam Minister is more important to her theme CEZ and 20-year friendship to be present, and the future of the energy of Bulgaria and Bulgaria as such is not so important that she can come here in two hours, have discussions and see what we do? In my opinion, this is neglecting the problem and should not be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Minister Petkova has always been involved with energy problems, but there is an application for leave, which I am obliged to respect, and according to our rules this is admissible. So the debate will be next week. New questions concerning the period from 28 February 2018 to 1 March 2018: A request was received from the National Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev, Georgi Stratilov Svilenski, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, about the introduction into operation of the Tol system. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 9 March 2018. There was a question from the National Representative Anton Konstantinov Kutev to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, about the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for the preparation of Bulgarian athletes, about their participation in the winter Olympic Games. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 9 March 2018. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on three questions from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u4	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Did you see the Monument of King Liberator this morning? And do we remember the case of the liberation of Bulgaria, which ended with the signing 140 years ago of the San Stefanian peace treaty? Many of us tomorrow at our national celebration will participate in the celebrations for its celebration, but do we remember what it is like to be a Bulgarian, what is a unity of the nation, what is a worship to the heroes who have sacrificed themselves for the freedom of our Fatherland, what is folk love?! Yes, we remember! We remember and protect and believe! Despite the daily challenges, despite the political struggles, we are Bulgarians, honourable colleagues, and remember that the sacred work of Botev, Levski, Vazov and the hundreds of known and unknown characters are part of us, of our memory, of our past and of our future. March 3rd is the date of the beginning of our freedom. There is no greater value than being free and living free! There is no more important goal for a country, for a nation and for a people than to defend and preserve their freedom! Every day we should be proud to be the descendants of a great nation. March 3rd is a celebration of our spirit as a nation, it is a responsibility to our history and to the upbringing of new generations. He, honourable Members, is a responsibility to ourselves, to every citizen of our country, because there is nothing more natural than to protect our identity, culture and nature. March 3rd is the day of our future. On this day we promise ourselves that we continue to be a people of pride and courage as the Bulgarian lion because we are Bulgarians and know the price of freedom; because we do not survive, but we fight; because we are ready to pay and keep our independence with responsibility; because we know that our history is ancient; because we believe that a people who knows how to pass through the obstacles of time has its future; because Ivan Vazov's verse sounds in each of us: [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Moving on to point seven: PARLIAMENT CONTROL comprising: 7.2. Answer questions and questions. Ekaterina Zaharieva will be the first to respond to a question by the National Representative Valery Jablyanov regarding Bulgaria's position on the Turkish armed operation on Syrian territory in the area of the town of Afrin. Here you go, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u6	Thank you. Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! On 21 January 2018, the Turkish State entered with armed forces across the border of the Republic of Syria and undertook an operation against the Kurd-inhabited area of the city of Afrin. According to a statement by Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yilderum, the goal of the armed invasion is to create a 30km security area. According to initial information, which is informal, of course, there have been numerous casualties among the civilian population in the area. For clarification: the area of the town of Afrin is enclave whose population is 4-500 thousand inhabitants. 40 days will be now, and the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry has no reaction to these actions of the Republic of Turkey, which are contrary to the UN Charter, to the Charter of the World Organization, to all the norms of international law and constitute an armed invasion of the territory of a neighbouring country. Dear Minister, can you provide us with information on the scale of the Turkish military operation, about the civilians affected and whether ethnic cleansing is taking place in the area? What is ultimately the position of the Bulgarian state, the government on the occasion of the military invasion and do you consider it appropriate to hold a meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the conditions of ongoing military action by Turkey and a practical military operation against a neighbouring country? I would also like to add to my question the following:... that, meanwhile, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution declaring a multilateral ceasefire in Turkey and asking you: is this resolution referring to the armed operation of the Turkish army in Syria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zablyanov, I think we have had the opportunity to discuss this in a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but since then, of course, there is development and you have finished with it, namely: a second attempt by the Security Council to adopt such a resolution. The first attempt was about a week earlier and was blocked by one of the permanent members of the Security Council, Russia, which is currently conducting along with the forces of Bashar Assad and Iran another such operation in Eastern Guta. Unfortunately, I can say that the situation in Syria as a whole from the last month instead of deescalation, as was achieved a few months ago in Astana, the so-called Bulgaria, as well as the international community, of course, is seriously concerned and worried about the growing escalation in Syria, which also presupposes the delay in the process that we all thought would finally begin, and this is precisely in the reconstruction of Syria. In all military actions and missions that are being conducted, unfortunately, there are civilian casualties. There's a huge number in East Gutta. According to unofficial data, of course, there is no way to be sure if these are the official figures of 601, of which 147 children. There is a suspicion of re-use by the Assad regime of chemical weapons. In Afrin, based on unofficial data again, as well as on Guta, there are 207 civilian casualties. This is the public information of the international evaluation community. I want to assure you that we are closely monitoring the situation and we have discussed it. It is not true that we have not expressed an opinion, it is not official on the site, but in the Council for Foreign Policy in Sofia, and at the last Council we had a serious discussion in Brussels on the topic of Syriya. The main concerns about the operation are two olive branch. one is the safety of the civilian population, and that is in connection with the tensions I have said in other regions and escalation, in fact, of military action, not deescalation, and the future of the Geneva peace process. The other is the duration of the mission itself. Our partners, as they are in NATO, are also allies, in Turkey they know very well about the concerns of the international community in this process. You know the official announcement of the start of the "Maslin branch." Turkey has referred to several resolutions of the UN Security Council and the UN Convention. Ankara formally declared as the objective of the operation self-defense and protection of national borders in respect of Syria's territorial integrity and neutralizing terrorist groups. So far, this is part of their motive, 150 missiles have been launched from Syria, with multiple civilian casualties. The common position, which Bulgaria fully supports, is that this truce, you know, is several hours a day in order to ensure a humanitarian corridor, must be respected. Unfortunately, we notice that in East Guta it was not especially observed in the first few days. All efforts must be aimed at de-escalation of tension. We have achieved significant results as a global coalition with regard to DAESH, but this does not end the process at all. In fact, it begins to rebuild and start the start of the political process, because the truth is that this is the biggest challenge. The conditions under which the European Union and the entire international community will grant funds for recovery are to comply with the arrangements for the zones and the start of the process in the UN and in Geneva of political comfort and the transition to the normalization of the political process in Syria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u9	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u10	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I will express my discontent with the Minister's reply at several points. First of all, my question was related to.. I am not sure whether it has been properly read with a military operation, offensive, against a neighbouring country from Turkey against Syria, contrary to the UN Charter and the UN Charter. I have not heard a position from the Bulgarian Foreign Minister, as well as from the government, that is absent, we do not expect such a position on this issue: what is the state that violates the UN Statute in this case, crossing with forces the border of a neighbouring country and declaring a buffer zone? I think that in terms of Bulgarian-Turkish relations all this should impress us. And if we are not impressed, it means that the position of the Bulgarian government in our bilateral relations is not on a solid basis. The second question you did not answer is the question how do you plan to hold a meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the conditions of ongoing military action, does this not disturb the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian government? Don't you think it's natural to put this as a condition during the negotiations and the talks, as it has been repeatedly declared by the Prime Minister that Bulgaria will not only be a venue for negotiations and territory for mediation and Bulgaria will have an active position? And I ask you about the Bulgarian active position on this topic. She's not here. I didn't understand that from your answer. And last but not least, you responded to me all the time and talked about some locality -- Eastern Guta. It's not in my question. My question concerns the operation of the Turkish armed forces in Syria about 500 kilometers from the location you are talking about. So I call on you and your team, when you prepare the answers, to still look at the questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u11	Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat. You don't want to take advantage of that right. The next question to you is asked by the MP Alexander Sabanov on the Sofia Convention for the definition of the river border between Bulgaria and Romania. Please, Mr. Sabanov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I appeal to you in my capacity as Member of Parliament from the Silistren Election Region. I am addressing the Sofia Convention on the definition of the river border between Bulgaria and Romania along the Danube River, which was signed in 1908. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 is described that the islands, including the sand deposits, on the left side of the Talvega will form an integral part of the Romanian territory, and the islands placed on the right side of the Talvega will form an integral part of the Bulgarian territory. For more than 30 years the fairway has been shifted to the left side of the island of Vetren, located between km 395 and 393, where the navigable road of the Danube is. In the majority of cases, the pharvater and the talveg coincide, which raises the question that the island of Vetren should be Bulgarian. This is one of the cases in which this Convention of 1908 must be applied, because there are other islands along the Danube River, which also fall under it. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 and in relation to Art. 14 of this Convention, every 10 years, a joint revision commission must be drawn up, which must recognize the Talvega of the river in a section where the Danube River is divided by islands. Since we have not been able to find data and minutes of meetings of such committees for 110 years, please inform us: are there any such committees drawn up and operating during these 110 years since the signing of the Convention, which have been sitting, which have taken decisions on the passage of an island from the territory of Bulgaria to Romanian territory and vice versa? What action will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take to implement this Convention and to transfer to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to the island of Vetren, as well as other actions along the Danube? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u13	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sabanov, I will divide the issue into two first generals for the Convention, then specifically the second. As you rightly said, this convention was signed in 1908. 1st in old style, 14th January in new style. It really envisions the establishment of mixed committees that will be involved on the issue and status of the islands in the Bulgarian-Romanian section of the Danube. The initial distribution according to art. 2 should have been carried out immediately after the conclusion of the Convention. In this regard, there was only one joint committee which ended with the signing of a protocol on the mutual transmission of the islands drawn up in implementation of art. 4 of the Convention on 22 October 1909, that is, a year later than the signing of the Convention. Indeed, the provisions of the Convention provide for the subsequent convening of the Joint Committee, which every 10 years has been tasked with periodically establishing changes along the Danube. In all more than 110 years of history since the signing of the Convention, the Joint Committee under art. 16 hasn't been together once. One of the main reasons is lack of agreement from both sides. That is, 1909 to assume that it was the first, immediately after the signing, to determine borders and islands, then not once. The second part of the question concerning the transfer to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to the island of Vetren should be dealt with in a complex way in the whole picture that I outlined just now. Negotiations and talks with Romania on these issues, without, however, reaching a joint committee, were conducted in 1920, 1949, 1959 and 1961. In the 1992-1993 period, the issue has been included, since then, nothing. The issue is again on the agenda of bilateral relations and a preliminary round of negotiations between Bulgaria and Romania was held in 1994. In 1998, the issue was raised at the level of Prime Minister, in 2015 and 2017. At the level of foreign ministers. My last conversation was with the Foreign Minister when we had a meeting in Evxinograd. We agreed then, despite the small number of meetings held, although in 100 years there have not been so many, no progress has been made since the talks between the two countries. Given the circumstances that in the last 40-50 years, de facto real negotiations have not been conducted, given the complex nature of the problem, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently doing is: periodically requires positions, makes working groups of responsible institutions, because it is not just the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at all. There are the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and so on. The Executive Agency for the Study and Maintenance of the Danube is also very important. As agreed with my colleague, the Romanian Foreign Minister in 2017 is each of the countries to prepare. We have taken action at expert and deputy ministers level to specify the Bulgarian position and whether Bulgaria is interested in the convening of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u15	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u16	Mrs. President, honourable Members, Mrs. Zaharieva! I answer this question because in the age of information technology, as you say, in Google Maps, an application that is used by all of us is clearly described the border of Bulgaria and it includes many islands that are currently Romanian. That's why I'm asking this question. I also ask this question in relation to the fact that when the water on the Danube is small, the Bulgarian part, the Bulgarian coast and the island become one. You can walk from the Bulgarian coast to this island. In this regard, fishermen who make a living in the waters around the island have repeated complaints from the Romanian authorities, from the Romanian border police, who unceremoniously arrested them, sunk their boats, confiscated them and so on. And I will really ask you in this regard to clarify the case until the issue is raised at the state level. After all, 110 years hasn't been a date like this. My other question is: has the Talvega been investigated at all? Because the Talveg, I say again, is the deepest part of the Danube, for people who don't know it. Farvater is the place where the ships or the shipping route along the Danube. In this regard, I ask that, until the case is clarified, a request be made and I do not know exactly how to formulate it to the Romanian government so that they do not attack and not arrest Bulgarian vessels, fishing boats. These people make an honest living and don't just want to be threatened and taken over by the Romanian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You don't want a doppelganger. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. She will respond to a question by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the policy of the Ministry of Justice, on the management of prisons and the accommodation of convicted persons with effective sentences. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Today's question is largely up-to-date against the background of the protests currently being carried out by officials in the system of execution of penalties. It is also relevant from another point of view that Mrs. Tsacheva as Minister of Justice under the law carries out general management and control over the activities of the execution of penalties. Given the scandals that are currently surrounding CEZ, a lot of people may need to fill them up, and that's from power. We need to consider in this direction how to improve the situation there. Madam Minister, you know that currently the union of prison workers in Bulgaria are protesting, putting conditions before you, wanting to improve working conditions, wanting to raise wages, but unfortunately on your part we do not hear any discount in this direction. You know very well that Bulgaria is one of the countries that is regularly condemned in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where due to bad conditions due to the poor condition of accommodation, Bulgaria is regularly tried and paid serious amounts. I am afraid that this thing is about to start happening and such cases to be brought by employees in the system, because apparently their working conditions are extremely serious, extremely severe. In this regard, I am putting this in front of you today, as we want to understand, not only myself, but also the employees in the system............................... what is the policy of your office regarding the management of prisons and the accommodation of those convicted with effective sentences? After all, you by virtue of the Law in art. 10, para. 1 is written that the Minister of Justice shall exercise general guidance and control over the activities of the execution of penalties, which includes an extremely large number of commitments, both with regard to persons who are placed in the places of imprisonment and with regard to those who must ensure this execution. This topic is extremely disturbing. Not only am I here as a MP, but all these people are responsible for this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u20	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, in accordance with the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, the general management and control of the action on the execution of penalties is carried out by the Minister of Justice. The specific public policy activities in this area are carried out by the Directorate-General for Punishment, which is a secondary officer with funds to the Ministry of Justice. In its overall activity, the Ministry of Justice is led by the adopted Programme for the Management of the Office Borisov 3 for the period 2017 - 2021. In the section of the Sector "Justice" the government program provides for an active implementation of the updated Strategy for the Continuing Reform of the Judicial System. There are specific objectives with regard to the modernisation and effectiveness of criminal policy and in particular specific Objective 6..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... More than once here, from this tribune, I have specifically answered questions from MPs about the efforts that have been made in recent years to improve the conditions for suffering imprisonment, as many times, and I have always said that they must go along with the government's efforts, in particular the Ministry, to improve the working conditions of persons engaged in order in these establishments. At present we are implementing several more important projects, some of them financed under the Norwegian mechanism, and another part are financed by the budget. There is a project under the Operational Program "Good management" "Modernisation of the penitentiary system" under which a contract has been signed to build the system for electronic monitoring of convicted persons or these are popularly called "graves" to track people who are detained, execute an effective sentence, but work in places with a lighter guarded regime, as well as persons who are placed under house arrest. To deepen the activity of improving the material conditions in prisons and arrests was done very little in the specific. I have reported written answers to you. I share your concerns about the failure of the Ministry of Justice and the Government as a whole, at this stage to respond in full to the demands made by the trade unions, with which I have been in continuous dialogue for more than five months. Unfortunately, at our last meeting on January 25th, they announced that they were passing through and have already moved on to effective strike events. At this stage, what is secured by the State Budget Act is a 5% increase in remuneration from 1 January. The government, through the finance minister, has expressed a desire for an additional 5% increase above the 5% so far, making more than 10%, setting the base. The union's demand is for 20%. It is clear to each of you that the Minister of Finance can allocate funds that are explicitly fixed in the State Budget Act. I can't distribute something that isn't there, which is why I don't want to, but I can't meet the demands for higher remuneration. With regard to one of the second claims to be placed on the basis, together with the employees of the Ministry of Interior, I would like to make it clear that three groups of employees are working in the Directorate General for Punishment. The first is those who are aligned to the Ministry of Interior Act. Only to this group is the request for an increase and levelling of remuneration under the Ministry of Interior Act. The second group are civil servants under the Civil Service Act. The third group are persons working on employment relations. As my time is up, in your additional questions I will also answer some of the questions that you asked in the initial presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u21	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Here you are, for two supplementary questions, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u22	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, neither I, nor those serving in the system of the Directorate General, will be satisfied with your response. You know, the protesters have asked several groups of questions to you. One was to improve working conditions and raise wages. They also asked you: what is the total number of employees in the central administration of your office? What are the highest monthly gross wages and so on? I expect to say frankly, against the backdrop of the protests, the Prime Minister will again come out and give 100 million, for example, as he gave to the Ministry of Interior, but given the recent circumstances I am beginning to think that this money may already be in the direction of becoming Mrs. Ginka Varbakova's partners in CEZ. That'll tell the time. I would like to refer you to an additional question in another direction which I have asked you earlier and is part of the question. You have answered my previous question that you have no information on what persons and what sentences have not entered for the execution of the punishments. A subject which is extremely serious and extremely important given the tragic incident that happened during the New Year. According to the Ministry of Interior and according to your data, which is somewhat different, according to the Interior Minister, 1126 people are currently on the loose with an effective sentence, with only 19 being from the beginning of the year until 18 February. You answer me in your previous reply that you have no information about such a thing and cannot be provided. In accordance with art. 10 of the Law You as the principal of this Ministry are responsible for this topic. Please answer me as an additional question: have you found information on these persons? What are they? Why aren't they going to jail? In fact, it is clear why they do not go to prison. What verdicts do they have, and what condemned individuals walk among our society? Do you intend to improve the conditions in Bulgarian prisons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Before I give the floor to Minister Tsacheva, allow me to announce that children from Primary School are on the balcony. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u24	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, I did not expect you to interpret the parliamentary tribune in this way the answers you received from me in writing to the questions you asked me. All I can say is, as you ask the questions, that's my answer. You've asked me a question about information from the Directorate-General for Punishment on persons who are not responsible for the execution of penalties. This information is not contained in the Directorate General, as responsibility for the introduction into the places of imprisonment lies the General Directorate of Security. They are the subject, a secondary authorising officer to the Ministry of Justice, to whom the Prosecutor's Office sends a notice of a conviction. They are the persons of the General Directorate of Security, who are going to place to detain the person who needs to be transferred to the places of detention. In cases where they don't find the person on the spot, they interact with the Ministry of Interior, post an APB on the person's whereabouts and so on. You received a written reply from me on 1 February 2018, in which I have detailed the commitments of both the Directorate and the other Directorate. In this written reply, I have said that 3518 persons have been declared for 2017 in the execution of judgments entered into force by a judicial authority. Of them detained and handed over by the General Directorate of Security are 2884 persons, and after the announcement that some of the persons were not found at the address, 79 additional persons were detained by the Ministry of Interior. Separately, in accordance with a European order, detained and handed over from abroad to the Republic of Bulgaria are 167 new persons. Since the issue became really relevant at the beginning of the year in the case of an extremely serious criminal case, it is my responsibility under the Law on the Execution of Punishments, the PPC and the Law on the Judicial Authority. I am in dialogue with the three structures that are relevant to the detention of persons and their implementation for the execution of a punishment.............................................................................................. At a joint meeting, we decided and established an interdepartmental group in which we update the instructions for work between us. What I can announce in advance from this tribune is that we are planning to draw up a target register, which at any moment publicly and openly gives information about persons who cannot be found at the address they have indicated during the criminal trial in order to activate the possibility of searching for those persons. Believe me, the coordination we carry out with the three structures involved in this matter is at the necessary level. This interaction can always be better and we strive to achieve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u25	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u26	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I'll start with the final answer to the additional questions. Ms. Tsacheva, I understand that no policy has been conducted so far, and no information has been collected with regard to convicted persons who have not entered the places for serving sentences. Apparently, due to this unfortunate incident with seven victims, the state moved in some direction. At least we've found out how many of these individuals are being sought out and the state must make an effort to put them in jail to prevent such an incident from happening again. The only thing we didn't understand from these 1126 people, according to the Interior Minister, who the Ministry of Interior is looking for, what are their convictions. This is also part of the information that the public should know... what sentences are these people? Are they murderers, thieves, thugs? Who are these people? Do we know who is walking among the Bulgarian society and where are these people located? I am very seriously surprised that these people have only just begun to register. The prisons in Bulgaria are not from yesterday, not from today. By law, the Ministry of Justice must have information on what persons are to be placed in prisons and what do not appear, why do not they appear and so on? After all, it is due to the Bulgarian public to answer what people are moving among them, for which the state should make efforts to be accommodated where they belong. This is an important 1126 people is an extremely stressful number! Another thing. Once again, if no measures are taken with regard to those who work in this system and must ensure the proper execution of penalties; if the necessary measures are not taken to raise their wages, to improve the working conditions, Bulgaria will continue to be judged and ultimately we will have the glory of the state, which treats equally unpleasantly both the employees and the condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We come to a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov on the implementation of the Ordinance on the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the specialty of Law and professional qualification of the university. Here you are, dear Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister, Ministers! First of all, I'm glad that Mr. Valchev is also here. Mr. Minister, I express my personal gratitude for fulfilling more than what is required for parliamentary control, coming earlier and you will be able to hear my question addressed to Mrs. Tsacheva. Ms. Minister, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination has self-serving according to a report by Mr. Orlin Kolev, Commissioner, in connection with Order 82 of 26 April 2017 of the caretaker government, which adopts a new Ordinance on the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the field of law and professional qualification of the cursor. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 of the Ordinance it is regulated that the training in a specialty can only be carried out in a regular form of training. This regulation strongly narrows the use of those laid down in art. 42, para. 10 in the Law on Higher Education Forms of Training: regular, incomplete and even remote. Thus, whole groups in society can be placed in an unfair position. For comparison, the still-in force Ordinance, in addition to regular, provides for an incomplete form of training. Personally, I can point out at least a few examples of lawyers in this National Assembly who have graduated, and are even currently being trained in the background. In the light of the above, I would like to ask you the following question: do you intend to take the necessary action to abolish the aforementioned Ordinance and restore the completed training under Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Come in for an answer, Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 20 October 2017, an extraordinary Council meeting on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform was held at the Ministry of Justice. As the training and state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the field of law and professional qualification are part of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform, this issue is also relevant to the Council. A working group was formed by a Council Decision, which is headed by the Director of the National Institute of Justice. This group includes representatives of non-governmental organizations, academic representatives, higher schools and universities who have faculties of Law. In this context, the activity of the working group is aimed at monitoring and analysing, as well as to monitor the implementation of the Regulation on the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the specialty of Law and professional qualification of the university, adopted by the Decree of the Council of Ministers, published, then corrected. You correctly said that this regulation was drawn up by the Minister of Education together with the Minister of Justice. The working group, which is currently continuing its work, has an obligation to answer the question: is it necessary and is there a need to restore the completed training in the specialty of the programme? At the same time, it must examine the ratio and application of the current Regulation to the regulation that was in effect before its adoption. Once I have received a report from the work of the working group, I will be able to answer your question in particular. At this stage, the answer is still in the hands of the members of the working group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mihov, you have an opportunity for an additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Ministers! Thank you for that answer. Obviously, a professional and responsible approach to the problem caused by the fulfillment of a prime minister's childhood dream. I am convinced that those who consider the issue will take into account all aspects. I would like to express my personal opinion that the preparation of lawyers in the background does not in any way affect the quality of the preparation, as the state examinations, the exams and the practical application of the skills obtained are of the same criteria for all students. We will be happy that this will happen as soon as possible, because this also concerns a plan-acceptance for the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The next question is from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska on reaching an agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Syndicate of Prisoners, and the General Directorate for the improvement of working conditions and personnel security. You have the opportunity, Mrs. Klisurska, to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! At the risk of repeating some of the problems that have been raised in asking, I believe that our question is extremely relevant in view of the ongoing protests for more than five months. Allow me to further develop the topic related to the problems of the employees in the Directorate General's Directorate-General for Punishment. For more than five months, their demands continue. In asking you at the end of last year you share that you know their claims to pain precisely because the two directorates have the status of secondary officers at the Ministry. On the one hand, these problems are related In this regard: how many contests have been announced since the beginning of the year, so that this failure can be caught up? Is there a financial resource available for this? On the other hand, the problem is related to the remuneration of employees - one part of them are aligned to those in the sector "Secure" - but receive far lower wages. I share the problem with the view that we are all aware that with the approval of the State Budget Act for 2018, the increase in remuneration was 5%. You have said that this year you are predicting an increase of another 5%. I hope very much, but imbalances and disproportions will not equal them with employees in the sector.Secure and, on the other hand, poor working conditions. In view of the ongoing protests, as Minister of Justice and a party to the negotiations with the Syndicate to increase the remuneration of prison officials, to improve working conditions and personnel security, my question is: has there been a possible agreement reached so far? If not, what measures and actions will you take to improve the working conditions, the personnel security in the two directorates in view of the State Budget Act and what we have adopted so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u35	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Klisurska, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree with you that the issue is extremely relevant, and although in part of my answers I will repeat myself with what I said about the questioning of your colleague Mr. Ivanov, but the facts at the moment are such and I am obliged to share them with the MPs correctly. With regard to the number and the holding of competitions for vacant places: at present, there are fewer than 30 seats that are not occupied because, you know, a large part of the competitions are in an appeal procedure. There is another side to the question? part of the persons who win the competitions are appointed and after a month or two work is quit, as the work of the persons working under the Ministry of Interior Act in the Directorate General is extremely difficult. This is something I share, and I shared it with them at the protest last Saturday at the Justice Department. Indeed, this is hard, unattractive labor. What I have done to the Minister of Finance in connection with the new budgetary framework for 2019 You can see that these are also not solid criteria, as the movement with regard to individuals who are at a certain point in time in a particular place for suffering punishment is very large. As for the amount of remuneration. There is a discrepancy between what the employees of the Directorate General receive.The execution of the penalties under the Ministry of Interior Act, but this discrepancy comes from the years, as during one period the employees of the Directorate General "Execution of the penalties" were extremely lagging behind in the amount of the remuneration. The month of January 2017, during the previous cabinet of Prime Minister Borisov, 10 million were provided, which partially leveled the situation compared to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. With the current State Budget Act, the entire system received a 5% increase. And what you, too, as a legislator, by adopting the State Budget Act, have provided for justice, in particular the Directorate-General for Punishment, has been granted to the employees. Yes, on the occasion of the protest. We held a meeting with the finance minister, who explained in detail to the trade unions' guides what are the budget options for this year and proposed a 5% increase above the five already received, which arithmetically makes more than ten, as the previous increase is being added. Syndicates have declined. It's their right, they've launched protest actions, the first of which are already a fact on Saturday. The next protest will be on 10 March 2018. What I have done since the protest before the Ministry of Justice is to inform the Minister of Finance, saying that at this stage the trade unions refuse to accept their proposed increase. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] They demand a 20% increase, whatever they are facing, and I am telling you that for the current 2018 there is no such increase rate in the Ministry of Interior system.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u37	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In view of the importance of the subject, I took the liberty of extending the time. Here you are to further your question, because it is important to hear the opinion of the ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! I will go back to Mrs. Tsacheva's reasoning that we, as legislators, with the State Budget Act, have regulated an increase of 5% on all employees in the "Secure" sector. After all, our memory is not short. The BSP Parliamentary Group has proposed in the budget, you will confirm it, to supplement some 9 million. 900,000. lv. Specially for the staff of the Directorate-General for Punishment and Punishment. In view of the fact that over the years it has actually been accumulated, this disproportion in terms of the remuneration of the employees in the Directorate General for Punishment, it is far lower than the remuneration of the employees under the Ministry of Interior Act in the Security Sector. At the end of last year there was also a question by our MP, which was similar to what we are doing at the moment, and then in response to the question you made a commitment to several important things that I so far believe my colleagues are not fully aware of, so I will formulate them again. Then, in your reply, you comment that as regards the basis for determining specific working conditions, you are prepared to meet any criteria for leveling this base with the employees of the Ministry of Interior, I quote you verbatimly. At the end of last year you are making another commitment to the rules on how the additional remuneration is formed and you comment that these rules are already ready. Are these rules really ready? One more important thing on the matter: is there a criterion by which there is a relevance of the guards? This is at the request of the Attorney General. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, these are basically my questions. I hope we get a positive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Klisurska, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not only the parliamentary group of BSP, the members of the Legal Committee, no matter which parliamentary groups they are from, really between first and second reading of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic for this year proposed to increase the funds for remuneration and levelling the base between the employees of the Directorate General and the Directorate General for Security and those under the Ministry of Interior Act. However, this was not accepted, which is why the five per cent remained the way they are in the whole area of security. As far as your specific questions are concerned, there is currently a working group headed by Deputy Minister Prodanov, he is the minister responsible for the two Directorates, with the participation of representatives of the administration of the two Directorates and of the trade unions, with regard to the drafting of the regulation. The regulation we proposed was not supported by the trade unions, so we included their representatives. At present, the work on this regulation continues. There one of the controversial moments is at the request of the trade unions, which offer to be recorded as a minimum wage, as an opportunity to be paid annually. On this subject, what I have stated, give me an example of such a record in a regulation in force for some of the departments, and I will agree with you, as I see no legal basis for fulfilling this request. But the job's still going on anyway. The same working group shall also prepare the compliance rules, as per the letter of the Prosecutor General, after the meeting between him and trade union representatives, the ratio between the number of guards or one overseer of the number of persons who are subject to punishment should be sought. Again, I said it in my answer. These are floating quantities. They cannot be constant at any time, but anyway, what is possible from an organizational point of view - improvement of state schedules, we made at the end of the year redistribution by transferring existing state numbers to places where there is a real need for more such numbers, mainly about the prison in Sofia. What is possible as organizational policies, as actions by the Administration, in agreement with the trade unions, we do. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But then, and when it comes to money to increase the remuneration that is not in the budget for this year, if you can tell me how I, as Minister, could increase, will listen to your advice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for Mrs. Tsacheva. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to a question addressed to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev, by the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev concerning the team of the Minister of Education and Science. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Valchev, my question concerns the management team in your ministry, the people who are part of it, because I, as a minister, know how people are chosen. I'm guessing these are professionals, people with extensive experience. However, there is a person in your team who presents himself as one of your biggest advisors at least that is what is written in several media. Since the MPs and the guests do not know what this is about, it is about Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva, who is also the Director of the National Centre for improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists. I'm staying away from being 67 years old because for me, age should in no way be discrimination. If you know, it's experienced, let's work, even more in the absence of qualified personnel. However, this lady is indeed a very controversial person. Considering that when we had a very serious debate here a few days ago on the removal of Valerie Jablyanov, here came from the Union of Repressed. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva is actually the chairman of this Union of Repressed. Moreover, she even took part and tried to interrupt MPs from the left when giving interviews to speak her opinion. However, it turned out that this is not her opinion, it is not the opinion of the Union of the repressed, but it is the opinion of the political party GERB. Why do I make that conclusion? Because this lady was 14th place in the twenty-third multi-mandated electoral area in Sofia. The same lady during the presidential elections firmly states that the Union of the repressed stand behind the presidential couple of GERB. As I recall, there were also presidential candidate couples on the right. At the same time, it states that the Union of Repressed by Communism has announced itself, I quote: You have to understand, there's nothing wrong with that. The bad thing is, Mr. Minister, that the public opinion is that this woman is there because until now she has supported only and only the political party GERB and is part of it. And because you are the Minister of Education, that is, you hold this country's future to young people. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thanks, I'm finishing, one sentence. I'd like to know, Minister, what exactly are her qualities? How did she become part of your team? What impressed you this lady, who only and only performs political orders and when from GERB called her, she comes here willingly? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoinev! Ms. Drumeva is part of the management team of the Ministry of Education and Science and as my advisor in pre-school and school education, and is appointed to half state. The Director of the National Institute for qualification of pedagogical specialists until a competition is held is temporary. Ms. Drumeva's appointment is based on her professional qualities and her 40-year internship in the vocational education system. She has such a 40-year internship in the education system. Perhaps from what you have been acquainted with, by what you have observed, which are purely political participations in purely political events, you have reason to doubt, but from my point of view I know her as a specialist in preschool and school education. I worked with her while she was an employee at the Ministry of Education. Maybe we've been working with Mrs Drumeva for almost four years. The fact that she is a member of the political cabinet is perfectly normal and that she was a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly, because it is normal for members of the political cabinet to be engaged in the implementation of the management programme of both the ruling party and the ruling majority and the government. So Mrs. Drumeva briefly has these professional qualities to be a member of the political cabinet of the Ministry. She was not in the National Assembly as my adviser, but as a member of the Union of Repressed. In labour relations, there is no such legal restriction as to prohibit its membership in different organisations and the expression of a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line, Mr. Stoinev? Obviously, yes, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I understand the delicate situation you're in, but maybe you don't know that... This is advice to you: just don't send her to Shumen District because there on Buddhist Day 2017, you sent her to greet the directors and teachers on your behalf and there has been a huge scandal. A quarter of a century ago, she was expelled from there, and this speaks of her professional qualities, and notice, with a decision of the Municipal Council, all directors and teachers have signed up for her removal. This woman is a very controversial person. Moreover, taking this firm position, I suppose, perhaps it influences, I speak anti-communist, it also affects these new textbooks. You know, we have a real conflict about the new story, because the new story isn't identical. There are open wounds, Mr. Minister, and you, of course, because I say again, you hold education, the future in the country, and you must respect these open wounds. Because we on the left, yes, agree that after 1944 there may have been no freedom of speech, no democracy, no competition in the economy, but at the same time since 1944, a country in which 40% of the population is illiterate, an agricultural country, now I will not be making propaganda, but at least enough to send a person into space, at least. Not to mention the Olympic medals Mr. Tsvetanov promised earlier, and we don't have one. But I'm putting that aside, saying it's an open wound. And this woman is affecting the writing of these new textbooks. Our personal opinion is that this woman has no place on your political team, how to say it, and a team. It is entirely your right, but you are a young, energetic person, a person who should hear both of them, and not as it was at the beginning of the transition. Because you, as a minister, have no right to teach, not to teach, but to have the influence to write extremes in textbooks, especially in history. And this woman, if she represents the Union of Repressed in Bulgaria, we wouldn't mind, because there are all the right-wing ones. But the Union of Communist Repressed De facto is an organization of the Political Party GERB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because this woman is on direct call here in Parliament, every single moment and almost she speaks for absolutely everyone. This woman has questionable qualities. Take a look. I think it's time you gave someone a young, worthy, energetic man like you a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. That was the extra question. Mr. Minister, would you care to address him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u48	Thank you. Mr. Stoynev, I accept your remarks, both for the extremes and for Shumen. With regard to extremes, this debate was largely held. The Institute of Historical Studies of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, including other authoritative representatives of the historical academic community, said there are no extremes in the programme. Yeah, there are a little more terms that... We're talking about the history program. There are a little more terms that have not previously been included in the program, but you can find them in the textbooks. As far as Shumen's concerned, I don't have that kind of information that she was evicted. On the contrary, my information is different. However, I accept your remark specifically with regard to this region. I assure you that Mrs. Drumeva was not involved in the preparation of the curriculum and, in particular, this curriculum, which we discussed earlier. I have also witnessed back in time of exaggeration of the role and importance of advisors in the decision-making process. In general, advisors are not part of the vertical process of concerted, decision-making in the Ministry, as are part of, for example, deputy ministers. So they can participate in the various tasks to the extent that the Minister wants and therefore he is responsible for this, but with regard to the management tasks of the Ministry and not with regard to events and participation in events which took place in the National Assembly and are not part of the activities of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Actually, that was the question for you. The answer concludes your participation. Thank you for the answer you gave. We are moving on to the questions addressed to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. There's a total of five of them. The first question we will consider is from the MP Professor Georgi Mihaylov regarding a change in medical standards. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Ananiev, Dear colleagues! In recent months, we have witnessed a number of statements by medical professionals, representatives of various professional organisations in the field of health, with calls to be relieved and almost even completely to drop the medical standards for the various specialties in clinical medicine, which would, according to these statements, alleviate the serious problem of personnel collapse in the country and solve the problems of the functioning of these medical institutions and their ability to conclude contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund. Along with this, however, in many different areas of public space, opinions of specialists in the field of medical justice have appeared, who are fiercely commenting on various details from the current and submitted to you projects for medical standards. I was impressed personally by one such comment on the standard of "Accessory and Gynecology" and the very serious commentary, in quotes the serious one, in my opinion, about the definition between fruit and abortion, the gestation week and the weight of the fruit, which should be defined as one or another, which I have already mentioned, and the possibility of legal relations between the family and the relevant medical establishment. There is a second part of this issue that I will try to develop later in the discussion. My question to you is: how will the legal foundations, in your opinion, be structured as the principal of the Ministry, for the structuring of medical standards now? And second of all the important question: what will be the opportunities for legal protection, insurance protection, of Bulgarian doctors in problems that arise in their relationship with patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u51	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, with the Law on Medical Institutions, the legislator has commissioned the Minister of Health to establish regulations on the medical standards for the quality of medical care provided and to ensure the protection of the rights of the patient on the basis of which to carry out the activities of the medical institutions and the medical and other specialists who work in them. By order of the Minister of Health the principle structure of the medical standards, which are applied in their preparation, has been established. Regarding your statement, Professor Mihailov, about deviation in medical standards, I would like to point out that the mandatory elements in the structure of medical standards are related to the definition of minimum requirements for staff, equipment, activity and level of competence in hospital care. And the differences in content are due to the specific characteristics of individual medical professionals. Regarding the draft Medical Standard "Accessory and Gynecology" published for public discussion on 1 February 2018 and in particular on the definition of the concept of the potential viability of the fetus, I inform you the following: in the reasons for the legal act in depth and scientificly justified, including with publications and statistics worldwide, are argued for the adoption in Bulgaria of the boundaries between birth and abortion, 25th gestation week and weight greater than or equal to 700 grams. Moreover, this border has been adopted in the standards of most countries in Europe. For the adoption of these criteria of extreme importance are the specific national peculiarities of medical establishments whose competence is the cultivation of newborns with low and extremely low weight and ensuring good medical care in the two interrelated specialties. It is important to note that the definition of potentially viable fruit is supported by scientific companies from both majors. A detailed medical justification for the adopted definition based on the experience gained and expert consensus between leading specialists in obstetrics and gynecology and neonatology was also provided in the project. The basis for the final decision on the definition of potential foetal viability is official data on the survival of newborns depending on their gestational age and weight. The conclusions presented at an international scientific forum in 2016 are in children born at age greater than or equal to the 25th gestation week, the chance of an experience without severe damage is greater than or equal to 50%. For children born from the 23rd, 24th gestation week this is a 10 to 50% chance. And with the 22nd gestational week born, this chance is slim and less than 10%. It is important to note that children born below 25 weeks of gestation in survival over 72 hours should also be recorded as birth. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u53	You will have the opportunity, Minister, to complete your answer to the additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u54	Mr. Chairman, I just want to say that there was a second part of the question, and I'm going to use the dot to answer it, because it's important, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u55	Exactly, because we're already way out of time. I'm sorry, we still have to follow the procedure with certain tolerances. Professor Mikhailov, please elaborate on the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the so detailed answer in the direction that was specifically highlighted in the question. However, my question moves you to two comments. One is when structuring the standards not to enter areas where there can be a very large conflict. The condition is created for a great conflict between the patient and his family, as the opinions in world medicine change. I can tell you that when I was studying as a medical student, the least weight saved a living human organism was 400 grams, and now this weight is much lower. If we take it to a gestational week, it goes to the ones you said were too small a risk. The whole problem with the standard in gynecology came from a publication in the UK, which was taken up by the press there. But it's another problem for me in this regard. The problem is that the Ministry must very well control the creation of standards in order to protect the interests of patients, but, as you mentioned, to take into account the state's ability to carry out high-tech controls in the treatment of patients themselves and, on the other hand, to protect doctors working in such technological conditions. The second part of the question is related to something much more global, which you shared yesterday and I agree with you, but for now I do not see a solution from the Ministry. This is the problem of reducing, falling to a largely very low level of medical standards. That gives us two options. Firstly, a limited number of specialists to work for the implementation of the standard and the equipment itself to be minimal. This enables you to share correctly yesterday that the number of doctors per 100 000 population, and I have actually made reference, is not so small in Bulgaria, in the most important specialties. However, the number of hospitals is fantastically unrealistic, and if these standards are reduced there, it will allow for an even greater increase in the number of hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Thank you for the question. Mr. Minister, you have, unfortunately, only two minutes of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Mr. Professor, all that will enter the Ministry during the public discussion and has its medical significance, and it is important that we examine it and eventually include it in the final version of the regulation. However, with regard to the second part of your question about creating a stable insurance base supporting the hard work of Bulgarian physicians, the Health Act determines the need for medical institutions to insure persons who exercise a medical profession in a medical institution for the damage that may occur as a result of a guilty failure to fulfil their professional obligations such as the terms, terms, time limits and the amount of minimum insurance is determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. By order of the Minister of Health was established a working group in which experts from the word organizations of dentists and dentists, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Association of Bulgarian insurers were involved with the task of drawing up a draft regulation on compulsory insurance of persons exercising medical professions, which aims to protect medical professionals for damage that they can do to patients due to severe working conditions, high levels of tension, workload and others. The scope of the regulation includes doctors, dentists, pharmacists, professionals in the field of health care. The draft regulation is at the stage of internal administrative coordination and is to be sent to the Council of Ministers for interdepartmental coordination within the government and, of course, its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is also asked by Professor Mihailov. It is the opportunity for the use of rehabilitation and rehabilitation procedures by foreign insured persons in Bulgarian health institutions. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is known that Bulgaria is a country in Europe and in the world, which by the number of mineral water sources is one of the richest compared to all other countries in the world. Conditions have been created in recent years for increasing the number of spas in Bulgaria and the interest of other countries and patients from other countries is very high in relation to the use of rehabilitation procedures on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Even now, in March in Berlin, there is an organized exhibition that is of interest to German health offices, Austrian health offices. Unfortunately, however, the problem has an administrative barrier related to the Cross-border Cooperation Directive, which has not been ratified in the Republic of Bulgaria for reasons which I consider justified. But it creates a certain setback... [[Relations of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] Wait a minute! Now if it's true, we're not having a discussion right now. As this creates problems for contracts that could be concluded between foreign health banks and individual balneological centres. They must be assisted by the Ministry of Health. I would like to ask you: what is the attitude towards the problem of the Cross-border Cooperation Directive and its full ratification? What are the risks of this ratification, which I personally know, as this creates a problem for the leakage of a huge number of patients across the border in other countries? How can the international cooperation of the Bulgarian balneotherapy be helped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u61	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the question you have asked is that there is no way for representatives of the so-called spa sector in Bulgaria to sign agreements with private and national health funds from the European Union to provide rehabilitation and rehabilitation procedures in Bulgaria. The failure to transpose Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare shall be identified as an obstacle. The question is related to the reasons for avoiding the transposition procedure of the Directive and the possible risks, and could specifically be found for the direction of rehabilitative and re-creative procedures to find another concretely economically justified solution for the State. In this regard, I would like to point out the following. Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is fully introduced into the Bulgarian legislation with the amendments to the Health Insurance Act and the Health Act 2014 and with the issuance of Ordinance No 5 of 2014 on the conditions and procedures for the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare during the same year. In this way, prerequisites for the application of the cross-border healthcare regime have been created. In essence, it constitutes a right of healthcare granted or prescribed in a Member State of the European Union other than the Member State of insurance. In exercising their right to cross-border healthcare, health insured persons must pay the medical institution in the Member State of treatment the value of the healthcare provided to them and are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of the healthcare provided in the Member State of treatment up to the amount of the costs paid by the National Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Health for the healthcare provided to them in the Republic of Bulgaria, but not more than the costs actually incurred. The above-mentioned law is explicitly laid down in the Health Insurance Act. For citizens of another Member State of the European Union to whom healthcare is provided in Bulgaria, the methods and technologies established by medical science and practice, as well as medical standards and rules for good medical practice, apply. The persons shall pay the medical institution the value of the healthcare provided to them, for which the medical institution shall issue a detailed financial statement on the financial resource spent. Medical establishments providing healthcare to citizens of other Member States of the European Union cannot set prices for health services other than those of Bulgarian citizens. As it becomes clear, the state has taken all necessary action to transpose into the Bulgarian legislation Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. At present, the country has been introduced and operates the necessary legal basis on the basis of which cross-border healthcare can be provided to citizens of other Member States of the European Union. I stress that such services can only be provided by medical institutions in our country. Due to the above, the question of the provision of a service by the so-called "spare sector" in Bulgaria under the order of cross-border healthcare cannot be discussed in this context. Cross-border healthcare is carried out for the purpose of treatment, which, according to the Bulgarian legislation, only medical institutions can perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Mihailov, you have the opportunity to treat the response received. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer in the direction in which the question was raised. The problem lies in our opinion in what you said at the end of your response that there is no possibility that rehabilitation centres that do not have the status of hospitals, and this issue is extremely delicate and very serious for these balneological cetres to implement rehabilitation procedures. There's another side to the matter. Since this ratification of the Cross-border cooperation, implemented in the way it is implemented in Bulgaria, with the issuance of the EC-2 Protocol, respectively for Bulgarian citizens travelling abroad, in the case of treatment options in Bulgaria, which, however, do not exist in their particular case, creates many opportunities for conflicts that have been discussed in the last two weeks in the public space. But that's not the interest in the question I'm asking you. Could I not get an answer from you as to what measures to take, because these balneological centres, which create an opportunity for real and adequate standard rehabilitation procedures, but do not have the status of a medical establishment, and it is too complicated to obtain such status under this legislation, to be able to operate with the relevant health institutions outside the country. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u65	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u66	Dear Mr. Professor, you have given yourself the answer to the question that you asked.. There must be a change in legislation in order to enable these spas to perform these functions. Without changing the law, it's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question, he is of a group of MPs - Professor Anelia Klisarova, Mr. Georgi Yordanov, Mr. Ilian Timchev, Mr. Lyubomir Bonev and Mr. Stanislav Vladimirov, about the state of the specialized car park at the emergency medical centers. Who's going to develop the question? Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The weeping condition of the car park is known to the emergency medical centers and its medical equipment. Practically since 2009, the Ministry of Health has not purchased new ambulances. During the discussion of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 once again, the issue of determining capital funds for the purchase of new cars for sanitary purposes was raised. The answer to this question was again postponed with the agreement that the project for reconstruction and modernisation of emergency medical care is to be implemented, which provides for the purchase of 400 ambulances. However, your predecessor Minister Petrov's words were that the new ambulances would actually be purchased at the end of 2019. At the same time, we have signals that certain regional centres and emergency medical affiliates, although they have a sufficient number of medical teams, cannot carry out their activities due to the lack of ambulances. Our specific question to you is: do you think that the condition of the car park at the emergency medical centers in Bulgaria is in extremely poor condition? Are you going to respond in an emergency and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u69	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Timchev, emergency medical centers have enough specialized vehicles and medical equipment located in the ambulances and in the stationary teams of the emergency care affiliates. However, it is true that the main cars and medical equipment to them, with which the mobile teams of emergency medical centers perform the accepted emergency calls, were purchased in 2007 In the periodic reports and analyses of the directors of emergency medical centres, there are no signals and indications of a risk of impossible implementation of their main activity. Significant depreciation of both ambulances and medical equipment is noted. Therefore, the Ministry of Health annually provides the centers with a budget for maintaining ambulances and medical equipment in a position to carry out their activities. Taking into account the fact that the building fund, the transport and medical equipment in the centres and branches of emergency medical care in the country over time are seriously depreciated and defining the development of emergency medical care as a major priority in the work, as has already been referred to you many times, the Ministry of Health provides for the implementation of a large investment project under the Operational Programme The project includes 237 emergency services facilities throughout the country: emergency rooms in 34 hospitals, 27 emergency medical centers in the district cities, 170 emergency services offices and 6 exported teams outside the district cities. At the moment, the necessary documentation is being prepared for the delivery of 400 medical vehicles with the necessary equipment. What has changed from my predecessor when he said this would happen at the end of 2019 is the result of the acceleration of this process by the team with which I work, the first deliveries will begin at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Timchev, would you care to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we know all this, but I want to tell you that there are ambulances, for example, that are not equipped and are armed with emergency services. It is necessary in suitcases to load the equipment upon an emergency call or to overload from one ambulance to another. The other is that many of the old cars are very often in repair workshops. You said the Ministry of Health was budgeting. I am very interested: in the years this budget has grown and in what size? I want to tell you something else, which also makes it difficult to organise emergency medical care. The contract that the Ministry of Health has signed to secure the fuel for these cars is only with "Petrol" as far as I know. Did you know that there are cities where there are ambulances on armaments and they travel to neighboring cities to charge, and during that time the region is left unserviced? In other words, the organisation of emergency assistance is in very difficult condition precisely for such reasons. That hasn't been a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u73	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you care to refer to the supplement? We move on to the next question, and he is from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov concerning the Hospital of Sofia in the town of Vratsa. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Ministry of Health took action to optimize the work of the Hospital............................................................................................. You and your team have personally announced the beginning of the implementation of a healing plan, yet the problems in the district hospital are deepening. Doctors, medical professionals and other employees continue to wait months for their salaries, are back on the street and protesting. More and more disturbing is the information about the notification of the departure of doctors, orthopedics, cardiologists, doctors from the imaging department and others. Over the past few months, they've left over 30 nurses. All this, dear Minister, inevitably leads to the phased closure of key wards and there are severe and irreversible disturbances in the structure of the hospital. Therefore, my question to you is: what is to come today? What specific actions and measures have been taken to restore the normal rhythm of the hospital? What measures have been taken to pay the salaries? I would be happy if I could get a little more specific information about the recovery plan that has been applied at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the expectations of the management of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The problems related to the difficult financial condition of the medical establishment are complex and are not from a day and two, but have been accumulated for many, many years. The Ministry of Health is doing everything possible to preserve the medical establishment and will use all legal opportunities for the hospital to continue working as it has so far. In order to maintain the current high quality of medical activity and to achieve balance in the financial flows of the company, restructuring in the number of beds of 315 is envisaged now with a 10th 15% reduction and reaching the average useability of the same in values above 85%. Medical personnel are kept. The administrative staff up to 150 people are being reconstructed. An optimal proportion of doctors is provided, with the reduction of health care professionals mostly at the expense of retired employees and employees with low workload. This will also contribute to the fact that an agreement is being made with the creditors of the medical institution to postpone the supports. At present, half of the restructuring estimate the number of beds has been fulfilled. The employment relationship has been terminated and so far more than 50 people have been given notice. At the same pace, a planned reduction is to be achieved mainly on administrative and low-qualified staff. As regards the remuneration part, I will inform you again today that all staff's remuneration is paid as of 31 December 2017. I assure you that the management of the Ministry of Health will actively monitor, in the short and long term, the implementation of the rescue plan for the medical establishment in order to ensure that the population of the area has quality and affordable medical assistance. I believe that these measures will restore people's trust in the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, do you have an addition to the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u78	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, especially for the specific part of it. I want to assure you that I believe in your serious commitment to saving the Vrachan hospital, and you can't do this alone. Nothing taken so far and from now on what you have informed me about in your response will result if the management of the hospital does not have capacity and professionalism at the level of the problems. The society in Vratsa is becoming increasingly concerned by the lack of adequate action of the current management of the hospital, especially its director. There is also missing any information, even through the media, about what is happening in the medical establishment, there is no elementary report to citizenship about what has been done so far. And that's not your job. On the contrary, the lack of respect for people's concerns and the courage to admit that you cannot handle responsibility is visible. Dear Minister, I think you should urgently undertake and initiate more personal changes in the management of the hospital and provide a management team ready to fight for the survival of the Vratsa hospital, a management team. I think that after the hospital director's accusation, his motivation for work will be much smaller. It is indeed urgent, and the resolution of this issue must be swift. A new management team is needed to succeed in the first place, to convince doctors, nurses and the whole society that there is a chance for the hospital with the measures you have announced with this credit of trust and to undertake the implementation of this rescue plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, will you complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u80	I'm just gonna confirm what I said a few words ago. Indeed, in the management, in the management of the Multiprofile Hospital there are definitely problems and they are increasing now both with the prosecutor's check and the accusations that have been made. In any case, we will take account of the composition of the management of the hospital, but we will still wait a short period of time to see what the results of the prosecutor's inquiry will be. We shouldn't make commitments any faster before we know the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u81	Thank you, dear Minister Ananiev. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u82	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! We are on the eve of the biggest holiday of the 140th anniversary of the birth of modern Bulgaria! On March 3rd, we celebrate a dream. The dream of returning Bulgaria to the map of Europe, for a country where injustices will be completed and after the darkness of slavery everyone will be able to live free and happy. It was this dream that was the bright idea, which in the darkest years kept the Bulgarian spirit alive and gave meaning to many people not to stop their constant struggle. Because of this, on the solemn day we must pay our respects to the Bulgarian militias, to the Russian troops, and to all the warriors of other peoples who won with their blood the freedom of our people. For us, the Russian-Turkish Liberation War is an example of a manifestation of supreme human virtues, sacrifice and heroism for the freedom of the Fatherland. March 3rd is not just the date of the conclusion of the San Stefanian peace treaty, it is a holy moment for the resurrection of Bulgaria. The Epic of Liberation is not only a state act, it is an image of all European peoples. This is an epic which cannot be forgotten, and the attempts to do so will meet the resistance of every Bulgarian in whose heart echo Shipka and Pleven. This is why it is unworthy and stupid every attempt to rewrite and replace history, because it is a blow not just to the facts, not just to the light sacrifice, but to the core of the Bulgarian identity. That's why today, when we celebrate our biggest holiday, it's our duty to call history things by their real names. The Russian-Turkish war was a culmination of the warm relations between Bulgaria and Russia. This traditional love is not literary fiction, it is a sign of great closeness. We have a lot in common with Russia. We are connected by the common roots of Orthodoxy, the close languages and the alphabet that Cyril and Methodius created. Between Bulgaria and Russia there has always been a huge cultural exchange, lasting economic contacts and it is no coincidence that to this day many Russians see in our country their preferred tourist destination. Because of this, good relations with Russia today are not just a matter of memories and romance, but of real national interest. We must and can be a bridge between Europe and Russia, something we should have realised long ago and turned into an up-to-date policy. We therefore call on Bulgaria to work to phase out sanctions against the Russian Federation, as well as to take concrete measures to improve and deepen bilateral cooperation both in political and economic terms and in cultural terms. It is on March 3rd that we should be able to formulate Bulgaria's new dream, and what a bigger dream than a world of peaceful cooperation where they do not blabber guns!? Happy holiday, Bulgarians! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u83	Thank you, Mr. Simov. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov on the sales of a drug without registration in Bulgaria. Here you are, Associate Professor Yordanov, to ask questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u84	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A few days ago, I was visited in my reception room in Plovdiv by a woman with a disease. This is the case. The woman has been prescribed treatment with the coroner, which is beta-blocker, beta prochon. In the next purchase of the preparation from one pharmacy of the largest pharmacy chain in Bulgaria, it is offered a package that motivates it, because the blister has an increased amount of tablets, with two tablets more than 28 tablets in the so far purchased pack has 30 tablets and the price is about 2 BGN. Lower. The woman accordingly motivates and buys it. Unfortunately, when she takes the first tablet, she gets sick, she gets sick, and she turns for medical attention. Her visit to the pharmacy, another pharmacy, turned out to be taped to the blister. The pharmaceutical removes half of the foil and below shows a blister of another color, which says "Emconcor" and not "Concor," also of five milligrams. In his reference, he told her that this preparation was not registered for use in Bulgaria and the woman turned to me. I made a reference to leading cardiologists in Bulgaria. Therefore, my question to you is: Is the preparation of Emconcor available in Bulgaria, in so far as there are instructions on the Internet in Spanish only made in Spain? Will you do a check and what sanctions you will take?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u85	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u86	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Associate Professor Yordanov! The medicinal product bearing the commercial name In the Republic of Bulgaria, a medicinal product is authorised for use in packs 28, 30, 50, 56 and 100 tablets, as the holder of its marketing authorisation is the Pharmacy Company. Reference in the public registers of the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shows that a registered marginal price in the country has the packaging containing 28 and 30 tablets and can therefore be distributed on our pharmacy market. The company "Merk" in Germany produces a medicinal product with an international patent name "Bisopras" and distributes it with different trade names in different countries. For example:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with the provisions laid down in Chapter IXa of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, and in particular Art. Any medicinal product authorised in another Member State may be imported in parallel to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where it is identical or similar to a medicinal product authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria. Regulation of the Minister of Health lays down the data requirements to be indicated on the packaging and in the leaflets of medicinal products, including those distributed in the country from parallel imports. Information on packages and leaflets must be presented in Bulgarian in a patient's manner, legible and indelible. Activities in parallel imports of medicinal products within the territory of our country may carry out a natural or legal person registered under the Commercial Law under the legislation of a Member State after obtaining authorisation to carry out this type of activity issued by the Executive Director of the Drug Executive Agency, and for that purpose it shall submit an application. A report in the publicly available registers of the Drug Executive Agency shows that in relation to the drug product "Concor" and 5 milligrams, the company "Bestamed" Ltd. is authorised for parallel imports with a period of validity until 23 August 2021. The Member State from which parallel imports are made is Spain and the producers responsible for the release of the lots after repackage are "Adison Pharma" Ltd. and "Veta Pharma" JSC. The medicinal product "Concor." 5 milligrams, with a marketing authorisation holder. "Bestamed" Ltd. also holds the registered price under the Regulation on the conditions, rules and procedures for regulating and registering the prices of medicinal products, which is evident from the public registers of the National Council of Prices and Reimbursing of Medicinal Products. As a conclusion and in response to your question, associate Professor Yordanov, I declare that all regulations and requirements concerning the import, packaging and marketing of the medicinal product from parallel imports into the pharmacy network are complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u87	Thank you, dear Minister. Docent Yordanov, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u88	Dear Minister, in the end I did not get an answer why in Bulgaria it very often started to happen: when you buy a medicine and the blister is taped, when you remove it there is an inscription in another language and another name of the preparation. It's most often the Turkish language practice, because it's obvious that drugs are being bought from there. You didn't tell me if Emkonkor was identityal with Concor, and who concluded that he was sad? Given that leading cardiologists in our country, they are at least five, be assured, they have told me that they do not know the............................................................................................ It's Nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u89	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u90	Prof. Yordanov, of course, that selling of "Emkonkor" as "Concort" is illegal because it is about forgery of a deal and a purchase by a patient from our pharmacies network. You know that a draft Law on medicinal products in human medicine is currently being introduced to the National Assembly, where the control of these violations is strengthened, related to parallel exports in the absence of medicines in our retailers, pharmacies, or pharmacies in hospitals. This control will increase, these cases must be stopped because this is indeed a violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u91	Allow me to thank Mr. Kiril Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. The first question he will answer is a question from MP Georgi Turnovalyski about control and countering illegal gambling. Here you are, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u92	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about controlling and countering illegal gambling. Dear Minister, according to the provisions of art. 39, para. 2 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate General for Combating Organized Crime (CSD)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question to you is: how many checks and what are the results in countering the organisation and conduct of illegal gambling, including online gambling; what are the preventive activities against the spread of illegal gambling and activities; and how is the control by the General Directorate of Organized Crime and Economic Police over legitimate gambling being carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u93	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Turnovallisky! The main and priority direction in terms of countering illegal gambling activities has the distance games or so-called "internet gambling." This is the productive fact that the Republic of Bulgaria is no exception to the global trend in which online games and services grow by about 20% a year. After the legislative changes that regulate the games at a distance, conditions for their regulation and increase are created in our country as well. One of the preventive activities of the Directorate General for Organized Crime is the ongoing monitoring of the Internet. The aim is to establish and cross the activity of unlicensed online gambling operators operating on the territory of the country. Thus, the establishment of the many internet gambling sites is suitable for illegal gambling activities and accessible from IP addresses. From the beginning of 2017 until now access has been suspended from Bulgarian IP addresses to 74 foreign online gambling operators organizing gambling activity without a license issued by the State Gambling Commission. In addition to direct control of gambling activity, monitoring, control, and analysis of processes developing in gambling circles are carried out. Checks and surveys of legal persons applying to the State Gambling Commission are carried out on a monthly basis to issue a license to organize and conduct gambling activities on the territory of the country. Results: 12 persons were detained from the Organized Crime Directorate General in 2017, and pre-trial proceedings were initiated for a criminal offence under art. 327, para. 1 of the Penal Code. Nine specialized checks were carried out together with representatives of the State Gambling Commission and the National Revenue Agency in sites where licensed gambling activities were organized. As a result of the checks carried out and the violations found two of the sites are sealed by employees of the National Revenue Agency, pre-trial proceedings under art. 327, para. 1 of the Penal Code, according to Art. 85, para. 1 of the Gambling Act, and according to this norm a forced administrative measure has been applied: withdrawal of a license issued to organize gambling for a period of six months. You're asking about them, too. The Directorate-General of National Police and the Department of Economic Police shall carry out precautionary control activities in relation to legitimate gambling jointly with the State Gambling Commission, as well as operational and search activities in relation to signals of illegal gambling outside the hypotheses of art. 39, para. 2, p. 11 of the Ministry of Interior Act concerning organized criminal activity related to money laundering and gambling. In this regard, for the purpose of collecting, systematizing and analyzing the incoming information on gambling, in 2017, the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior were regularly carried out checks and police operations were conducted as follows: over 300 gaming halls, casinos and online betting stations were checked on the territory of the country. Secondly, 60 specialized police operations have been conducted. The following results have been achieved by the Directorate-General of National Police and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior: 11 pre-trial cases have been filed for illegal gambling activities under the same article. 327, para. 1 of the Penal Code. Secondly, 19 files were formed. Thirdly, five acts establishing administrative infringements have been drawn up by external control authorities. Finally, 15 slot machines were confiscated without a license. That's for the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u95	Thank you, Minister Radev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u96	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. This information that you have provided, I have not been able to find it anywhere on the websites of the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry. Since it is undoubtedly clear and you told it that gambling revenues are increasing seriously, but also the licenses issued for gambling activities and gaming halls, and those who organize gambling are increasing, should also be more serious control. In the annual report of the Gambling Commission, there is no information about common actions such as is available under the law of the Gambling Commission with the Ministry of the Interior. The prevention that should be present, I did not hear it and in your response, it is also missing in the Gambling Commission. The increase in revenue by 20% should by no means comfort us. This is a niche.. and the Commission itself defines it in recent years as a niche, which increases the revenue from gambling, and we know that where there are such opportunities, respectively organized crime is being directed. We can give the latest examples of such stocks held in Italy, where organised crime "the mafia in Italy" was hit precisely in gambling. It seems to me that the possibility of increasing revenue is underestimated and needs more serious control in order, on the one hand, to prevent and prevent this illegal activity, and, of course, to increase revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u97	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Turnovalysky, you haven't found this information! You will find it very soon... now the announcement of the report is coming. You will see it on the website of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime. I will ask them explicitly if they have not added such a text because there are many different activities, to add one to see it there too. And why did you say it wasn't in the NRA report? I can't answer that. You didn't hear any preventive action?! I'm sorry, but I stressed it. I turn over the answer immediately and I read to you: one of the preventive activities of DGBOP: monitoring carried out, the Internet. It was in the answer. You want more control here, I agree with you. And I want more control, we all want more control. I hope we did and targeted the measure, because there are a number of other crimes to be dealt with by the Ministry of Interior. This is important. I stressed the 20% up, you see. I hope we're at least able to be at the average level that other countries are doing. I'll try to find a way to check this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u99	Thank you, Minister Radev. There is a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov on the activities of the regional units of DGBOP. Here you are, dear Mr. Yankov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, on the grounds of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I have submitted to you the following question about the activities of the regional units of the Directorate General of Organized Crime (CSD): Mr Minister, how is the control of the regional units of the Directorate General of Organized Crime being carried out, how do you analyse and assess their activities? What is the effectiveness of coordination with the respective Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the control over the activities of the territorial sectors, as you call them, is carried out centrally in the country by the Director and Deputy Director of the General Directorate of Organized Crime. By explicit order of the Director of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime is entrusted to one of the alternates carrying out functions of management, management and control over the activities of these territorial sectors of the Directorate for Organized Crime. As part of the measures to control the activities of territorial sectors, their monthly reporting is based on certain indicators and assessment criteria. This mechanism allows the management of the Directorate to carry out objective analysis and measures based on reports and results obtained under these criteria. As an additional form of control over the activities of the territorial sectors of the "Cross Fight against Organized Crime" in the management of the Directorate, a hearing of the heads of territorial structures in the country is held on a regular basis. The results achieved from the activity are discussed and measures to prevent them are identified. Strictly monitored for the implementation of tasks and activities ordered by the Ministry's management to counter crime. In line with the internal regulatory framework adopted in the Ministry of Interior, as part of the structure of the General Directorate for Organized Crime, the territorial sectors prepare six-month and annual reports and analyses for their activities. In this sense, the concrete results achieved by the Directorate-General also reflect the work of their territorial sectors. The possibility to directly monitor the situation of the operational situation in a given territory allows an objective assessment of the state of organised crime and the taking of targeted action for effective countermeasures. An important moment in achieving greater efficiency in the fight against organised crime and increasing efficiency is continuous development and improvement of cooperation between the different structures of the Ministry of Interior. In this sense, in order to fulfil their functional obligations, the territorial structures and the fight against organised crime are actively interacting with the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior: joint operations are carried out on separate lines of activity, two-way exchange of information between the territorial sectors, the Sofia Directorate of Internal Affairs and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and vice versa, close coordination and communication is maintained. This fruitful cooperation is an indicator of synchronization in the work of the individual structures of the Ministry and aspiration to achieve common objectives for countering crime and guaranteeing security in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my specific question is: what do you give for the effectiveness of the coordination between the different units in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, of course, and the territorial ones of the Directorate General for Organized Crime? I will ask you in the duplicate to clarify and clearly state your assessment as far as you can give it, of course, and the information you have at your disposal. You said that there are monthly criteria according to which such assessment is given to the individual territorial directorates of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime. I would ask that they be provided to us, if not to all MPs, at least to the members of the Internal Commission. And in connection with the work of the General Directorate of Organized Crime, I specify to you that with amendments to the Law, the General Directorate itself can work on individuals, not only on organized criminal groups. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is parallel activity between the departments of the Ministry of Interior, the Regional Directorates and the General Directorate of Organized Crime. That is, between the National Police and the two main Directorates there is intertwining of activities and they can work on the same cases independently of each other. So I ask you in terms of coordination: how and what assessment do you give? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u105	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here's your coat, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, I have told you and you have heard well: there are six-month and annual reports, there are criteria on which assessments are given. In addition, there is a system that evaluates the work of the employees at the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Directorate General for Organized Crime, so I will check the assessment there. I can't tell you right now, but I'm guessing it's at least satisfactory or good, because the General Directorate for the Fight against Organized Crime is one of the units leading the Ministry of Interior and the time I'm there, I've found the same thing. Compared to the other systems, like the National Police, Border Patrol, they're doing very well. But exactly what is the estimate....if you are interested in a number, such as.................................................................................... I'll give you accurate information, maybe in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. In the same way you ask there, and there I will answer you, or at the next meeting, so there is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u107	Thank you, Minister Radev. We continue with the next question for you. It is asked by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov about the status and trends of crime during the winter resorts during the winter season. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, winter resorts are an attractive place for thousands of Bulgarian and foreign tourists, and the months from January to March are peak in this regard. Tourist resorts are the subject of interest and criminal abuse by the criminal contingent. Dear Minister, what is the status and trends for crime since the beginning of the tourist season? What preventive measures were taken by the Ministry of Interior to limit and prevent criminal attacks against Bulgarian and foreign tourists in winter resorts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The answer is given by Interior Minister Valentin Radev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have already answered such a question before the season, but it is still relevant because it is not over yet. I will give you some numbers, thus answering the specific questions: for the period from 10 December 2017 to 22 February 2018 in the Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior, serving the Bansko resort, a total of 83 criminal offences and 3 economic crimes were registered. Of the total number of registered criminal offences 28% or approximately 34% have been identified. I am talking about Bansko, 38%, as well as all-terrained crimes related to transport, drugs, and 35%. In the same period for Samokov the other winter resort Borovets were registered a total of 117 criminal crimes and only one on economic lines. Of the total number of registered criminal offences 33 or around, round, 20.28% revealing. The majority of the registered criminal offences are property crimes "65," motor vehicle management after the use of alcohol, drugs or other substance "27," as well as drug-related crimes "8." What is the situation for the same period.. Chepelare, serving Pamporovo. Nineteen criminal crimes have been registered, and there are no registered economic crimes. Of the total number of registered criminal offences 9, or 47,37 per cent detection. The majority of the criminal offences registered are against ownership and drug-related crimes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Before each tourist season, based on the Action Plan of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, crime prevention and fire safety in resort complexes and facilities, this is the name of the plan, the Directorate General of the National Police and the Sofia Directorate, the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall establish an organization to take and implement specific measures related to the protection of public order in the resort complexes. For the winter season 2017 "2018" in the territory of the districts of Blagoevgrad, an organization and implementation of joint activities with the police structures of the Member States of the European Union was established for the period from 18 December 2017 to 11 March 2018. A number of shifts are planned to carry out joint activities in the territory of the Regional Branch of Bansko, with the participation of Romanian and Greek police officers. For the period 20 December 2017 to 20 March 2018, a total of 66 civil servants from the police authorities are scheduled to be seconded to three shifts in 22 employees from other structures of the Ministry of Interior who carry out public order tasks in Borovets, Samokov District. Thanks to the help of additional forces from the country and abroad in the resort complexes in recent years, crime has marked downward trends. In order to increase the effectiveness of countering criminal offences in the Sofia Directorate and Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, information acquisition and enhanced monitoring of the persons from the active criminal contingent are ordered to prevent and commit crimes on the territory of the winter resorts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In order to counter and uncover economic crimes in the sectors of trade and tourism, joint meetings with representatives of the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Tourism and other state departments are organized and held during the winter tourism season. There is such an interdepartmental coordination centre, which has been formed and its functions during the winter tourist season are as I have said so far, and works on Bansko territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u112	Mr. Minister, the numbers are numbers, but I expected more information about the nature of this type of crime. What is the prevention of the Ministry of Interior regarding the designation of these persons, as winter resorts have a more closed type? In this sense, prevention should be at a higher level if this contingent is sufficiently marked in the routine work of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You will not take this right. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov concerning criminal structures with a hierarchy of governance. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we all know that organised crime, apart from a social phenomenon, has one main mark, namely its structure, various criminal formations and hierarchic structures. Its aim is to obtain profits on an unregulated path, subjugate illegal territory business, and also monopolize individual criminal industries. Criminal organisations are also characterized by their sustainability. They are created over an extended period of time, and which is more interesting, rarely do these criminal organizations disappear over time. They may have undergone certain metamorphosiss, but in their essence, their structure remains the same. The typical methods of action they use are mostly threat and violence, as well as corruption, which is Bulgaria's big problem. My question is this, Mr. Minister: how many criminal structures with a hierarchy of governance have been established by the Ministry of Interior; how are territorial and what measures to counter them are you taking to end their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, according to art. 39, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act, the Directorate General for Organized Crime is a leading structure in the Ministry, which counteracts the activities of local and transnational organized criminal groups, according to art. 321 of the Penal Code. In view of its functional competence, the Directorate shall carry out activities to prevent and counter various forms of organised crime by applying both proactive actions and methods and good practices and successful forms of operational cooperation at European and international level. In 2017, 109 organized criminal groups were identified and neutralized by the Directorate General for Organized Crime. The share distribution by activity on the territory of the country is as follows: drugs, the largest Established and neutralized by the Directorate-General and territorial sectors in Varna, Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Vratsa, Montana, Kyustendil, Pernik, Pazardzhik, Smolyan, Razgrad, Sliven, Yambol, Sofia, Stara Zagora, Haskovo and Kardzhali. The customs regime, the monetary and tax insurance system is the second group. Established and neutralized by the Directorate General and territorial sectors in Kyustendil, Plovdiv, Pazardzhik, Smolyan, Ruse, Razgrad, Silistra, Dobrich, Sofia In third place, counter-terrorism is 20.2%. Established and neutralized by the Directorate General and the territorial sector in Sliven. Fourth place, cross-border organized crime - 19.3%. Established and neutralized by the Directorate General and the territorial sectors in Kyustendil, Pleven, Lovech, Sliven, Yambol, Sofia, Stara Zagora, Shumen and Targovishte. Finally, fifth place, corruption and money laundering. They are at least 5.5%. Established and neutralized by the Directorate General and the territorial sectors of the Directorate of Burgas, Varna, Ruse, Razgrad, Shumen and Targovishte. Each region served by the territorial sectors of the Directorate of Organized Crime is characterized by specific features defining the nature of organised crime as the size of the region and geographical location, proximity to the border crossings, presence of sea and river ports, highways, winter and summer resorts, concentration of educational centers, universities and last but not least have an impact on the economic, social and cultural development of the region concerned. For the majority of organised criminal groups is a characteristic hierarchic structure, as you note, in order to generate higher financial gains. The structure in some such groups changes to be more flexible with distributed roles and functions between individual members engaged in specific criminal activities. These organized criminal groups interact on both national and international level in committing certain crimes. In order to achieve concrete results in the fight against the local and transnational organized criminal groups, Directorate General of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, with interaction with other structures of the Ministry of Interior Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. The following questions arise from your answer. We all know that the subsequent characteristic actions of organized criminal groups are attempts to turn the acquired resources and capital into legal businesses, into production, charity. In this way they acquire some kind of immunity, cover their tracks and recruit people from different levels of power. It is therefore important to answer the question, if you have such information, of course, what information does the Ministry of Interior have about the existence and operation of such criminal groups with a hierarchic structure in important sectors of economic life? The government has declared success in the fight against smuggling. We have heard of identified criminal groups not only in the area of cross-border commodity exchange, but also in the area of customs control and the financial sector, but what is the situation in energy, health and in all important and large proportion of national wealth sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like a douche? You will not take this right. Dear colleagues, I will read you a message. Minister Temenuzhka Petkova has interrupted her vacation. He is in the National Assembly and is ready after 12:00 to participate in the debates on the questioning of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov on nuclear energy policy. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u120	Yes, come in, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u121	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. I never imagined that a debate on an important issue for the people could become a game of table tennis and a transfer of the ball from one direction to the other. Yesterday there was a message, we postponed it this morning. I came out here, I asked why there was no reply, we continued on a parliamentary control scheme with questions and questions, and now suddenly in twelve to twenty, after there are not enough MPs in the Chamber to vote, because you know that the debates end with decisions that need to be voted, nor are there enough people to participate in the debate, because the debate is extremely important for the development of energy in Bulgaria, it is proposed and we are told that the minister is ready. All right, let's put it this way: thank you for the minister's willingness, let the parliament comply with what you said this morning that the debates will be next Friday and the next parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I take it you're not prepared to have this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u123	Not us, the MPs aren't ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u124	Members of the National Assembly, yes. Because the vote may also take place on another day under our Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u125	Thank you, Madam President. I'm shocked by what's happening right now. Can't have a Bulgarian minister who is resigned or not making fun of the Bulgarian Parliament once again. Yesterday, the parliamentary control program included the hearing. It doesn't matter if the MPs vote today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. This morning you convinced us that you had entered the situation and that you had given her leave. Now at 12:00 Mrs. Petkova has decided that she can come for a walk to parliament and we all have to stand still and wait for her. Is that what you think?! Is this the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament? Every single minister, whenever he wants, no matter what the program, no matter what the agenda comes here and says, "Come in, come out." This is unacceptable and I ask you to make a remark to Minister Petkova when he is on the agenda to be present, to defend the positions of the Ministry, and when he does not want to come, not to justify himself. The same could have done at two without five to say she was ready to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u126	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I am merely announcing Minister Petkova's wish that she has decided to come to parliamentary control today. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have to. And you, as importers of the proposal, may not develop your proposal today and be postponed until next week. It's your choice. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, we'll continue with the next question. A question from the MP Tsvetan Topchiev on prevention and crossing the distribution of drugs in schools. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the number of teenagers reaching for drugs is increasing. Despite anti-drug campaigns among students, not only children in large cities are already at risk, but according to parents it is a seamless supply of drugs and small settlements. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what are the measures and actions to prevent and cross the distribution of drugs in and around schools; how many cases have the Ministry of Interior caught selling drugs to children in 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! In the Ministry of Interior is conducted the Program "Work of Police in the Schools" which states that specific objectives related to the general prevention of children at school age, building models for the safe behavior of the students and creating a positive attitude towards the police and its activities. Since 2017, more than 8190 lectures have been given in kindergartens and educational institutions, paying particular attention to the use of drugs and their harm, as well as the criminal penalties provided for in the Law in carrying out a crime of this kind. Made, printed and distributed have once had the opportunity to announce this in schools over 400,000 brochures for prevention of drug use, tobacco and alcohol. The following long-term events are planned: meetings with the directors of educational institutions; concerted joint security activities in the areas of children's institutions; monitoring of persons with questionable behaviour in and around children's and educational institutions; actions when receiving reports of drug offences committed in or near children's and educational establishments; establishment and maintenance of permanent contact with representatives of children's and educational institutions, with a view to timely and systematic notification to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in cases of the spread and use of drugs in and around educational establishments and in kindergartens. Interaction and exchange is carried out with various organizations involved in prevention of drug use, an employee of the Ministry of Interior is a member of the relevant municipal drug council, working closely with the National Center for Drug Addiction, as employees of the Ministry participate in events organised by the Center, guidelines are given in terms of prevention, prescriptions for drug use. In order to improve the work and effective countering, preventing, crossing or detecting drug-related crimes by the Directorate General of National Police, documents have been prepared with specific objectives, tasks and guidelines for drug-related work and have been sent to the Sofia Directorate-General and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. The same shall be implemented and reported on a monthly basis, planning and carrying out the necessary events and events in this respect. An analysis of the security environment in the different regions of the country shall be carried out and a summary report shall be issued. In 2017, 8093 school districts were checked and 10 004 drug-fighting, drinking and entertainment establishments were inoculated. 526 minors committed drug-related crimes have been identified. The Ministry of Interior does not keep separate statistics on the cases in which detained persons sold drugs to children, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Topchiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, once again I must say that I am not satisfied with your answer. Despite everything you've read and said, these brochures don't work. From the data of municipal councils on narcotics, the most used and distributed drugs in Bulgaria are marijuana, amphetamines, amphetamines, and their use has increased significantly. The age limit for first use of amphetamine falls to 9 years of age. I didn't hear from you, Mr. Minister, definitely saying that you would do everything possible to cross this thing. There have been cases in small towns where people are very concerned about this phenomenon, children using drugs. You told me here that you're doing all kinds of meetings and so on, but specifically around the schools to stop the spread, I didn't hear anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. For the coat, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! I absolutely didn't say anything?! I don't know how much more emphatically I have to say it. Here, I make it clear: we will do everything we can to stop this thing, but we can't, from now on, I'm telling you, and I'm not saying that. [[Voices from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Eee!"]] I'm not saying it because no one wants to or the Ministry doesn't work in this area, so it's all over the world. I also agree with the numbers that you have shown and the trends, that is probably so, but we are doing the possible and I have told you exactly those things that have been done not only by our government, certainly by yours and by the previous ones. There's no other way, no way to catch them, but to start with the brochures, the conversations with the directors. We give them a prescription for what to have around school, where to stand when we're there. How else can it be done? If you have any ideas, say them, we'd love to apply them, but I know what was backwards, I've done checks during your government. Those are the ways. The question is to make them, perhaps, consistently, to make them persistent and to limit this impact, otherwise I agree. Your focus on this is correct, the children are, perhaps, the most valuable capital of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Tasco Ermenkov on missing cannabis at the Police Department of Nova Zagora. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u135	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It would be funny if it wasn't for drugs and it wasn't for the fact that they disappeared from the police station in Bulgaria. Otherwise, it's almost comical what happened, but it's a fact. I will use the minister's words in the previous response that they will do everything possible to deal with the distribution of drugs in schools, and that they cannot handle this fight, most likely they will not really be able to deal with it after the police disappears. To the question. On 22 November 2017, case No 58 was brought against an unknown missing 200 grams of cannabis from the Police Department building. There is no doubt that cannabis was there and there is no doubt that it disappeared from there. The interesting thing I have to ask as a question is: how is the fight against drug distribution in Nova Zagora being carried out, where and how are these drugs stored after they are eventually confiscated and under what control regime are they found there, because it can happen that 200 grams of cannabis disappear? These are not kilos, tons, cocaine, as it is called, but it seems to me that the police should primarily deal with the collection, collection and confiscation of drugs and their storage, and not with that in some form they then disappear from there. So, Minister, I ask you to answer my question: what measures, including disciplinary measures, have you taken, or are you planning to take, with regard to the Chief of Police, Nova Zagora, who is responsible for the activities of the police department, including the storage of such drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u136	Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, comically in no way, I take it very seriously and this is not about the 200 grams alone. You're talking about principle. On 22 November 2017, a case No 58 was initiated in the District Investigation Department of Sliven, against an unknown perpetrator, for 200 grams of cannabis missing from the District Department building of Nova Zagora. Following operational search events, the perpetrator of the crime, the theft of a drug substance, which is being concealed and declared a statewide search, has been identified. The perpetrator of the theft had access to the building of the District Department of Nova Zagora, as a worker in a construction brigade. He was examined in advance and found not to have been convicted and no criminal registrations. The Director of the Sliven Regional Directorate is referred to a Reportable Note of 23 November 2017. One day later, by the Head of the Department of Investigation of the District Directorate of Sliven, which contains preliminary evidence of disciplinary misconduct by the investigating officer. By order of the Director of the District Directorate Sliven, a disciplinary check has been initiated against the investigating officer, the motive is a failure to comply with the Order of 13 June 2014 of the Minister of Interior and established by it the Internal Rules on Conditions and Order of Storage in the Structures of the Ministry of Interior of physical evidence collected under the Order of the PPC. In this context, there is an Order issued on 12 January 2017 to the Director of the District Directorate of Sliven, and a Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the storage and disposal of narcotic substances, plants and precursors, as well as the sampling of representative samples thereof. In this regard, a breach of the professional discipline, namely a failure to fulfil the duties of that officer. The disciplinary review ended with a reference on 17 January 2018 and following a proposal from the Commission on 30 January 2018, was issued by the Director of the District Directorate Sliven, with which the investigating police officer was subject to disciplinary punishment for a period of six months for violation of the professional discipline within the meaning of art. 199 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In the course of disciplinary and criminal proceedings, no preliminary evidence of disciplinary misconduct was found by the Head of the Regional Administration, Nova Zagora, and therefore no disciplinary proceedings against him were initiated. The investigating police officer in the precinct is directly subordinate to the Head of Investigation and is not in a hierarchical submission to the Head of the precinct. In the case at hand, the investigating officer did not provide evidence in the proper manner, it is the punishment. Who's pushing it? That's what you asked, the second question. Punished is the one who is directly responsible, and the one, the other chief, whom you ask for, is simply not as responsible as his over it. That's a detail that's been clarified.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the opportunity to reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that the policeman is being punished, well, well, the investigating officer is being punished, received a written warning and so on. But I keep asking: is it not still the responsibility of the squad management to create such working conditions and such control over their subordinates so that such actions are not allowed? Because today it is about 200 grams of cannabis, tomorrow it will be about something more serious as a quantity, there may be physical evidence as a weapon in the event of a crime with weapons, and if only investigative police officers are responsible, provided that the management is not, at least he is not given any suggestion that he is obliged to create such working conditions and such control that no violations by the police are allowed, I do not think that in the State and the Police Department of Nova Zagora in particular, there may be any order. Therefore, Mr. Minister, once again, I ask you very much that this be a lesson in the way in which the heads of the relevant police department must carry out their duties as executives, as managers, as people responsible for the overall activities of the police department. He probably wasn't in direct chain of command, but in order to allow this thing, someone from a construction crew to embezzle physical evidence, whether... In this case, even worse, physical evidence, which is a drug, means that the work at the police department is not placed at the necessary level. Otherwise, if he had control, if he had the opportunity, and the chief was doing his job, it would have been clear for this officer a long time ago that he was either out of place or didn't know his duties, or in some other form he didn't do what he was assigned to do, and that measures would have been taken before it came to this case of drug disappearance from the RPD. As you said, it would be comical, but it's not, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity on the back if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ermenkov! I'm only taking the backdrop because it's a matter of principle. 200 grams isn't that 40 kilos of cocaine caught or that 600 kilos of heroin, but you're talking about a principle, so out of respect, I'm going to tell you the backdrop. This example you have set, consider that the superiors will be punished, but not with disciplinary punishment. You're asking me if he's being punished. Punishment means disciplinary. On them, certainly the assessment of the work of the regional government that Sliven will also be reduced and this case, I promise you now, will be discussed at the disciplinary meeting with the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in order to pay attention to everyone else, as you say, 200 grams, and a construction worker! Just like you and I are outraged. The attention will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u143	Honourable Members, the procedure for this matter has been completed. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev Baychev about which police departments to the Ministry of Interior in the territory of Burgas region are conducting renovation activities of a building fund in order to improve the working conditions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The topic I would like to address is related to the building fund of the regional police departments of the Ministry of Interior on the territory of Burgas and, more precisely, to the domestic conditions and working conditions under which regular police officers work. If we make a kind of ranking of the financed ministries in recent years, we will find that the Ministry of Interior is always in the top 3 of the most funded ministries. However, although it has a large budget, this does not result in major results in terms of working conditions for the police. They are not good, which leads to a demotivation on their part and consequently to a decline in their performance at work. I agree, Mr. Minister, that the department you run is too large, it's loaded with border guards, as well as fire safety. At the same time, however, it also has numerous fixed tangible assets, yet it is no reason not to strive to improve working conditions. You, as their chief, should be making efforts in this direction, as well as having a dialogue with the opposition, as we have always shown good will and helped so far. I would therefore like to ask you the following question: in which regional police departments of the Ministry of Interior in the territory of Burgas region are provided for renovation activities of the building fund in order to improve working conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u145	Thank you, colleague Baichev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Baychev! In 2017 funds were provided under the Capital Expenditure Plan of the Ministry of Interior in the budget of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Burgas. To implement the plan for the permanent Commission on Human Rights and Police Ethics, repair activities are implemented to ensure an accessible environment for disabled people in the building fund of the Regional Directorate in Burgas, Tsarevo District Management, Sozopol, Sungurlare, 02 Regional Management in Burgas and the building of the Base Scientific and Technical Laboratory. With the funds provided are the repair activities of the heating installation, the facade and the roof of the road police building in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Burgas. Emergency repairs were also carried out on the roof of the Aytos District Department. In the same year the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, which deals with these public procurements, held one with the subject of building a new building for the needs of the Regional Management in Karnobat. The decision to elect a contractor is contested by a contractor in the contract before the Commission for Protection of Competition. In January 2018, the Commission has now issued a decision in favour of the Ministry. The Commission's decision is appealed by a participant in the contract of a higher authority...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On March 12th, we will know the solution. If the decision on the part of the VAS is positive in favor of the Ministry of Interior, the new building in Karnobat is ready to be started. In order to improve the working conditions, repair activities of the building of Regional Management are envisaged, according to the project "Energy efficiency" for thermal insulation, replacement of windows, roof heat insulation and water insulation. The same project in May is expected to carry out renovations in the District management of Malko Tarnovo. The projects are co-financed by the municipal administrations of the two settlements, for which I thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev for a line, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I thank Minister Radev for the correctly exported data. I admit I'm not familiar with the procedures that are currently running, there's nothing wrong with that. However, let your colleagues from the police be aware of what is to come. As for the rest, which should be done, I would ask you, when discussing the budget, that you have a more active participation, as there is no idea in the current budget as well. Capital expenditure is usually residual expenditure remaining from the share of capital expenditure and should not be residual. The budget is usually formed on the basis of last year's budget and is added a little bit more. I dare say that in this year's budget we were an active country and we had bet and proposed an increase in the budget by another 150 million for the Ministry of Interior. Perhaps if you had supported us in the Council of Ministers, you would now have additional funds to direct to the repairs, as in time as these repairs are delayed, they are becoming more and more expensive. Thank you and know that you can always count on the opposition for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u149	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. If you'd like, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baichev, for me you put your finger in the wound. This is one of the problems of the Ministry of Interior and I compare it to the Ministry of Defense. And I'm going to tell you by memory numbers, I guess they're almost accurate. First, the Ministry's budget is one billion 290 million. 400,000. lv. This is the budget. Of it, only 22 million are capital expenditures. The cost and wages are the rest of the staff over 90%. There's about 120 million for alimony only. What's the next thing we do at the Ministry? And this has been seen not only by us, not only by our new political leadership, it has been so in recent years. And the best news is that the Ministry of Finance knows it and helps us, including with targeted funds when necessary. My impression is exactly like yours. I've told you what we're doing there, but imagine the whole territory. Everywhere, not only must the building fund be maintained. And for that, 22 million! Colleagues killed each other when they sat down to discuss the distribution of money at the beginning of this year. So I thank you for what you are saying about the aid, but GERB has other priorities of education and other things. I hope that one of the priorities we are gaining strength will be the Ministry of Interior, and the security sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u151	Thank you, Minister Radev. The questions to Minister Radev were closed on Friday afternoon. The way the hall is beginning to be filled, I understand that the questions and questions to Minister Petkov will be quite interesting, so I give the floor to the esteemed People's Representative Dora Yankova for a question addressed to Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Minister Petkov! My question is about promoting active adult life. In the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 you aim to promote the active life of the elderly. There you have recorded the development of a National Strategy to promote active life for the elderly. We know that there is one from 2012 to 2030. Maybe an updated strategy, but you will say it in a moment from the stands. Parallel to this, an active adult life index is introduced at national and regional level. The debate is now under way on the identification of the regions and on the next planning period. This is also extremely important if an interinstitutional debate is going on. Along with this, we all know what is the picture in the country as demographic trends and lifestyles of elderly people. The country faces a number of challenges related to this rate of ageing of the population, economic growth, the difficulties facing the social systems that you run and the services that are offered, increasing public spending, the need for pensions, health and social support, education, housing and infrastructure. The trend is clear. The population in Bulgaria is ageing. According to the UN forecast in 2050, which I think is very close and we have to prepare for this, Bulgaria will be one of the oldest countries in Europe with a value of 301 people over 60 years of age and 100 people aged from newborns to 14 years of age, which means that the adult population in Bulgaria will be about three times the youngest population. And here there are many questions about the quality of life, about the economy, about the social, about health services and in general about what you have written down as politics. I want to share with you: I was in my electoral district, and not just in my electoral district, and I talked to people, very old people. Most of them do not know about this Strategy and policy to promote active life or the index. So I ask you from the stands to announce what the government is doing, and in particular the Ministry, which you are in charge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! The reduction and ageing of the population has a direct impact on the functioning and financial stability of such important social systems as the labour market, the pension system, the health system, social care and education. This requires the implementation of an integrated approach and the development of complex measures to adapt the public sector to ageing processes and to provide better conditions for the inclusion of the elderly in public and economic life. The main strategic documents for meeting the demographic challenges in the Republic of Bulgaria, including the ageing adopted by the Council of Ministers, are an updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2012 A National Strategy for the Promotion of Active Ageing in Bulgaria is also being developed in the implementation of the Government Management Programme for the period 2017 - 2021. At the same time, action is being taken to gradually introduce a national and regional index of active adult life. These two measures are being prepared at the same time, as they are mutually linked and their implementation is envisaged by the end of this year by the Council of Ministers of the Strategy and the Plan of Action. The aim of the prepared Strategy and the implementation of the index is to mobilise the potential of institutions and administrations at national and regional level to take measures to improve the status of elderly people and extend their life in good health. What has been done so far? What I said is working, and it has to be done by the end of the year. The other part of the Council of Ministers' decision from the end of last year "13 December 2017" adopted a two-year report for the period 2015 - 2016, containing information on the implementation of measures and programmes by many responsible institutions regarding the level of coverage of the National Concept for the Promotion of Active Ageing in Sectoral Policies, which is available on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The following more important measures and programmes are implemented specifically to support the productive life of elderly people on the labour market in 2017: The National Programme is being implemented. The state budget allocated to this Programme last year is about 4 million. lv. Employers are encouraged to employ unemployed persons over the age of 55 and last year the funds spent on these measures amount to BGN 957 934. Employers are encouraged to open jobs for apprentices and, at the same time, for mentors, with over 300,000 spending on these measures. lv. At the same time, adult training measures are applied and to this end 338 692 BGN were allocated from the budget of last year. There are also 28 regional employment programmes for one for each area, with a total budget of 6 million. 609 thousand. BGN 795. Specific measures have been taken over the past year to improve the quality of life of elderly people. The minimum amount of pensions for internship and the age of two steps was increased from 1 July to 180 BGN and from 1 October to 200 BGN. The minimum dimensions of employment pensions are also increased, which are defined in a percentage of the minimum amount of retirement and age pensions. The amount of social pension for old age was also increased. Another significant measure taken to improve the social protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population, including people with disabilities and elderly people, as part of the integrated approach, is increasing the amount of guaranteed minimum income of 65 BGN. £75. at the beginning of this year. This created an opportunity to include more individuals and families in the government's defence programmes. For the first time in 2018, budget funding of more than 68 million was provided. lv. for social and personal assistants, household helpers for over 26,000 disabled people and elderly people who cannot serve themselves. At the beginning of 2018, the government also adopted the first plan for implementing the long-term care strategy aimed at improving the quality of life of elderly people dependent on care. The Programme is also being implemented..Provide individual packages of food products...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 822,000. lv. A warm lunch is also provided under the Food Operational Programme for those most deprived of the total budget of the operation 92 million. lv. To conclude, I would like to point out that the measures and programmes listed are only part of the whole complex approach that Bulgaria is taking to address the demographic challenges in the context of the implementation of the objectives of the Strategy "Europe 2020" and of the founding national and sectoral strategic government documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Dear Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Mr. Petkov, the officials have written you something that is part of the Social Ministry's commitments and part of the commitments related to poverty reduction, social policy and social services. I hope that you will not deny that in the Strategy you have and which you have read in the two years, there is an alarming trend for a low life expectancy in years and a low life expectancy in years of poor health. Along with this, the needs for treatment resources and long-term care for the elderly are deepened. Everywhere in the municipalities all the MPs here will share the worry about the lonely living people, especially outside the six cities, and perhaps in the big cities. It is for these concerns that you shared about the small amount for the assistants. One main conclusion is that the gap between the available resources and the resources needed to satisfy the needs of older people is deepening to enter and improve the country's overall index, which is indicated around 31%. My first question to you is: are you satisfied with the financial resources? Are you satisfied with the funds you currently have? Second question. The discussion, which led the Ministry of Regional Development, Public Works and Local Self-government for the new boundaries of the planning areas, began. There is no dispute that the leading criterion must be the quality of life, economic development and the average life expectancy. No one's methodology is clear. We are currently forming three versions of regions based on the number of residents. Have you been asked, are you involved, do you give an opinion in the formation of the regions? There are also alarming trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! In answer to the two questions that you have asked me: are the funds provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for addressing problems and implementing policies aimed at elderly people? I would like to clarify that these are actually integrated policies. They are used not only from the budget of the Ministry, respectively the state budget, and from the budget of the state social security, as well as from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Of course, with the increasing proportion of the elderly population, needs will increase and be ahead of the opportunities for their satisfaction and funding, as you have found. I would like to stress once again that, in addition to budget funding, which gives sustainability to the programmes, services, services, social assistants and assistants through the first plan for implementing the long-term care strategy, which has already been adopted and on which there is a well-established service map, services will predominantly be developed in a home environment to support elderly people, while the most needed for changing homes for elderly people will be closed down. At the same time, through the funding of Operational Programme "Regions in growth" new homes will be provided for elderly people, where more quality care for the elderly will be offered. This is regarding your first question. Regarding the second question: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy participates in the coordination and debate on the new planning areas in the Republic of Bulgaria within the framework of the general debate held in the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, will you take advantage?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers! Mr. Minister, you must realize that this may be one of the fundamental issues related to demographic policy and to the attitude of maybe more than 25% of the population of Bulgaria. I realize this shouldn't just be your concern. This must be a strain on the institutions, debate, dialogue, extremely large of your activity and pressure from the parliament to have more resources precisely for these policies, and for restructuring part of the activities related to the elderly. You ran away from this: will there be a national and regional index, as part of the question I had asked in my question was the Strategy, the National and the Regional Index. Looking at the country as a whole, the index may be the same for the whole territory. In the four components of the World Health Organisation and the UN in two of the indicators we are last and last. In one of the indicators we're in 17th place, we have 31 points in total, which is in the best, ideal environment. I ask the question because it takes complex, long-term and very care of the institutions and the Council of Ministers itself, where perhaps you will be one of the leading ministers to see a quality development of national human capital. This is extremely important because if we don't look at it well-structured, if we only rotate it in strategies, in discussions, sectorly, to put it into a separate ministry, it will be bad and we will waste the quality development of national human capital. I asked this question to draw your attention and perhaps to gain more strength to speak at the Council of Ministers on these issues and to seek a solution. Older people don't lead an active life.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u162	Colleagues, as announced before 12:00, Minister Petkova interrupted her leave to come to the National Assembly and participate in the debates. As Minister, she has a right to come whenever she wants, and we can give her the floor. [[People representatives Tasco Ermenkov and Krasimir Yankov want the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you are, fellow Members, in the manner of conduct. Make a suggestion. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] We will begin the debate, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u163	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to draw your attention to the official announcement of parliamentary control on Friday, yesterday, distributed to the parliamentary groups, where it says: "Because of the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. It was sent yesterday, distributed to all parliamentary groups. Today, using the Rules of Procedure art. 53, para. In exceptional cases, the President may propose a change in the agenda at the beginning of the plenary session. On the agenda that we voted on Wednesday, on this point. 7.1. is written: debate on questioning and so on. You changed the agenda and said this item was off the table. Isn't that right?! I'm not messing anything up. We're at T.C. right now. 7.2, which after the removal of t. 7.1. became t. 7 The only one who writes answers to questions and questions. Madam President, even if you want to start a debate, first, we must finish the point that we have started because there is no reason to interrupt it. The Minister will answer his other questions so we can really be done with this. 7 only: answers to questions and questions. If you want us to have a debate, if you want us to be a parliament, not to be something that gathers, relaxes and goes, and does whatever the President or anyone else wants to do right now, or some minister to be on leave or interrupting it. Excuse me, this item needs to be put back on the agenda, officially, by voting to get on the agenda, and then we will continue on it. If there is no vote to include this item on the agenda, this means that the arbitrariness you are trying to plant here becomes your traditional, normal policy. I suggest that you first complete the control as is the point at the moment. If you want to have a debate, offer a separate new item on the agenda for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for your offer. Mr. Kirilov has something to say in the manner of conduct and I will give you the word. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u165	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will express differently, I do not say, vice versa, but a different opinion on the weekly programme. 7.1. "Inquiry requirements, No 854-05-4 " and I believe that it is acceptable to hold debates on this point. 7.1, including take place now and immediately. The debates were requested by MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. By this request they shall exercise the possibility of parliamentary control as an opposition parliamentary power. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not saying you're quitting. I am trying to think fully within the meaning of parliamentary control and the possibility of carrying out the debate procedure so that your rights are not violated. For this reason, as soon as the prerequisite for the inability of Minister Petkova to appear in the morning, you see that the President made announcements and the Minister appeared for this debate to respond to the request. As signatures should be................................................................................................ 105, para. 2 More than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly. We do not see this as a request by one, two or three Members of Parliament, but as a request by more than one fifth Members of Parliament who have requested a debate procedure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since it is in the interest of logic to implement your parliamentary rights, I think we should have this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Dear colleagues, let me just say one thing, Mr. Iankov, and I'll give you the floor! I propose that we continue with the two questions to Mr. Petkov and I will put to the vote the proposal for entry as a point of debate on the matter to Mrs. Petkova. Please vote on the procedure made by Mr. Ermenkov as an item on the agenda to enter the debate with Minister Petkova after the questions to Minister Biser Petkov are exhausted. Vote 131 MPs: 124, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We continue with a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on income policy towards the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petkov, my question is about income policy and is related to the finding that life in Bulgaria is rising, and the gap between poor and rich is getting deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u168	Mr. Yankov, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u169	I'll say it again for those who can't understand and don't want to hear. Life goes up, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe not for you, but for people it goes up and they feel it. And the gap between poor and rich is very deep. According to a trade union survey, BGN 2325. a month is necessary for a family of four to cover its basic costs. For one person, the amount is BGN 581. Life in Sofia is even more expensive, of course, and wages are higher, but for a four-member family in the capital are needed more than 3000 BGN. per month and per person at least BGN 756. The data are as of December 2017 and are of the Institute for Social and Trade Policy of the CST. Dear Minister, 27% of our fellow citizens live below the poverty line. Only 28% have sufficient funds or money over the minimum for monthly maintenance, i.e. 72% of Bulgarian citizens live underprivileged. Bulgaria has the lowest incomes in the European Union and the largest polarization rich-poor. The large polarization is partly explained by the fact that there are many households with elderly people with people who receive pensions and from there low incomes. Another part of this statistic applies to people without qualifications, without education, who do not work, but do not look for work. There's a gray sector. In this regard, my specific question is: how will you change income policy given the growing difference between wages and the necessary social security of living standards reflected in statistical indicators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u170	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, the main priority of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 in the field of income is achieving a higher standard of living through partnership with business, citizens and social partners. In the management program of the government is laid down a condition for growth of economic activity, which will allow reaching the level of the average salary of BGN 1500. at the end of the term of office. Following the already observed acceleration in income growth is expected as a result of increased economic activity, further increase in productivity. The demand for work and inflation will also determine the upward development of incomes and the implementation of the governments program. According to preliminary data, the Bulgarian economy has a real growth of 4% in 2017, driven by domestic demand and mostly by private consumption. In recent years, the state's efforts have been aimed at maintaining economic stability and attracting new investments, leading to job creation and raising the average wage with growth close to and higher than 10%, which is one of the highest rates in the European Union. The latest data from the National Statistical Institute outline positive trends in the labour market, reaching pre-crisis levels of unemployment and increasing labour income. In the period 2008 - 2017 the average salary increased by 91.7%. The growth of labor income is 4 times greater than the increase in living allowance. Inflation for the period 2008 - 2017 was 13.6%. NSI data show that in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the same quarter of the previous year, the level of gross domestic product in the European Union increased by 2.6%, in Bulgaria by 3.6%. Also, the average wage in the private sector in Bulgaria has increased by 12.9%. From 1 January 2018 the minimum wage for the country is BGN 510. and compared to 2017, it grew by 10.9 percent. The determination of size follows both economic realities and budget opportunities, and the increase contributes to increasing the purchasing power of the lowest part of the employed and their vital level. The increase in the salaries of Bulgarian citizens is in line with cohesion policy and in the implementation of convergence. For the period 2007-2016, the compensations of employees, as a percentage of gross domestic product, in Bulgaria increased from 32.2% in 2007 to 41.8 percent in 2016. The proportion of the compensations of the gross domestic product employed by the European Union during this period changed from 46.5 percent in 2007 to 47.4 percent in 2016. The government's priority remains to ensure the social protection of vulnerable groups of the population. The aim of policy-led policies is to continue to address the problems of risk groups as best possible within the framework of the state's financial capabilities, including poverty, but not by establishing and maintaining a lasting dependence on the social assistance system. In this regard, in 2018, in the framework of the budget of state social security and the state budget an increase in the amount of money compensation for raising a young child from 340 to 380 BGN was adopted. Since 2018, monthly support for raising a child has increased to BGN 40. for a family with one child and for families with two children the help becomes 90 BGN, respectively for families with three children 135 BGN. And so on. Help in this amount will receive households with up to 400 BGN. monthly income per person, while introducing additional lucrative criteria for receiving monthly benefits for children and families with monthly income per person of BGN 400,01. And up to BGN 500. They will take 80 percent of the full amount of aid. From 1 January increased the minimum daily amount of the monetary unemployment benefit from BGN 7.20. £9. and a maximum daily amount of BGN 74,29 is fixed. The guaranteed minimum income rose to 75 BGN. since the beginning of the year. The average pension of a pensioner is expected to reach in 2018. 362,97 lv. By applying the European pillar of social rights, the European Union advocates the rights of its citizens and common European values in a rapidly changing world. During the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in Bulgaria, a conference will be held that will open the debate on the development of the European pillar of social rights as a foundational instrument for the preservation and development of the European social model. Its implementation will help national income policy to adapt and change, where necessary, and in line with both achievements and reported weaknesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u172	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Mr. Yankov, order two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petkov, an official's reply. My question is about income policy, and I expected you to develop your vision. When raising the minimum wage, the government announced that the increase contributes: economic growth, the sustainable rate of gross domestic product in recent years, an increase in the number of employees and the increase in the average wage in the country. In Germany and in the Scandinavian countries, they have bet an absolute whale on which their entire income system swims, and it is the qualification. In these countries there is almost an automatic link between qualification and income, which makes people extremely motivated to maintain and increase their qualifications. In Bulgaria, such commitment is completely lacking. This is part of the government's policy that you may propose to be adopted and implemented. We need a clear model and a functioning mechanism for the formation of incomes, which in fact does not exist in Bulgaria. We do not have an answer to the question: how do incomes occur between different professions? We don't have tools to let people know that their different work activity leads to some or other results in their incomes. My specific two questions are: do you have a view to change income policy? Are you discussing with employers and trade unions, discussing with experts? And secondly, do you think that this way, using the mechanisms that have clearly proven that Bulgaria remains the poorest in the European Union, I pointed out to you when asking the question, will Bulgaria have the opportunity to overtake at least any country in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u174	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, if you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u175	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, I agree that there should be a greater commitment between the qualification and the income received. In modern conditions, it is increasingly necessary, not a diploma for a completed degree of education, but a real qualification for this qualification to be assessed by employers with the corresponding remuneration. I think that the government's efforts and policies in this area, aimed specifically at education, training young people, strengthening vocational education, including dual education and dual education, are steps precisely in such a narrower commitment between qualification and corresponding remuneration for working income. With regard to the second question, which you have asked, whether we are having a dialogue, yes, we are having a continuous social dialogue with the social partners on these topics and in the context of what I have also mentioned in the reply, within the framework of the actions and the plan that Bulgaria must adopt for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Because there one of the three sections is precisely aimed at raising income. What you asked in your question is whether Bulgaria will be able to outrun some of the other Member States of the European Union, at the level of income, this can only be done through the upward convergence of wages, something which is a topic and is discussed within the framework of the social dialogue at European level. That is, by increasing incomes in Bulgaria faster than growth rates in other Member States. The winner of this can also be the international European companies that will adhere to the principle of equal pay for equal work and, of course, in line with labour productivity. And here I will stress again that the productivity of labour and its rapid growth will naturally lead to higher pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u176	Thank you, Minister. Dear Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u177	Dear Minister, employers have asked me the question: if the activity imposes a day-to-day regime of work, why can't many people be hired at less hours and at every one of them according to the work done? It's a pragmatic question! Perhaps the time has come to introduce a minimum hourly rate in Bulgaria instead of the minimum monthly salary. Now the hourly payment in Bulgaria is regulated by a decree of the Council of Ministers, which determines the existence of a minimum wage and a minimum hourly rate. Minimum wage and minimum hourly rate exist together. The introduction of only minimum hourly wage according to experts will increase the flexibility of the labour market, but with new criteria determining the rate as minimum hourly rates, can be updated after dialogue and agreement in the tripartite council. The efficiency and productivity of employees is believed to increase and will lead to much greater competition between employers for good employees. A higher hourly rate previously agreed between a worker, employee and employer may be paid for after working hours, for example. From the point of view of the control of labour law relations and the protection of the employed minimum mandatory hourly rate can hardly be circumvented. In this way, the gray sector will be brightened because insurance will be withheld for each hour of work, from there and for pension contributions, which will lead to an increase in the collection of pension contributions. The introduction of mandatory minimum wage as an hourly payment can, of course, lead to an appreciation of certain goods and services. But in dialogue with trade unions and employers, you can reach consensus. It's just an idea. You have the expertise and the information from which the analysis can follow. It is time to discuss these issues and find solutions for employers, trade unions, political forces, to have a consensus on a solution, and this must happen with the leading role of the executive. In your face you must be a generator, a bike of ideas to unite us politicians, along with employers and trade unions, in order to increase the incomes in Bulgaria and all who live in our country, to live better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u178	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. On behalf of a parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, I would like to make a declaration on the occasion of the National Holiday of Bulgaria 3 March! Dear colleagues, for over 100 years we have celebrated a unique phenomenon in the European southeast and in European history, because in European and world history there is no such act, there is no such war that has been fought in the name, only in the name of a great ideal. Whatever the thoughts of those who started the war have been, the result is an obvious one, and thanks to this result we are here, we are there and we are called "Bulgarians" and we call our country a Bulgarian state. During the Second Republic, today's republic, in which we live the Second Republic of the Bulgarians, March 3 was always the subject of political juditions, of political revaluations, of attempts to rewrite history. All possible motives have always been taken on the agenda by which to devalue this extraordinary act in world history, which the great Bulgarian politician and diplomat who remained in history with the designation of russophobic said: "For the Liberation War we will speak separately, we will write separately from everything else and always on our knees! " Worship of this fact, this historical act must be binding for all Bulgarians and no one should dare to challenge it. During these more than 25 years, more than a quarter of a century years of the Democratic Republic of the Bulgarians many times great statesmen, big politicians kept quiet about who freed us, from whom he freed us, why he freed us and what were the consequences of this liberation. The consequences of this liberation are the independent thinking of the Bulgarians and their self-dignity, with which they continue their way through history. We have many times been in a difficult state, we have overcome it, we have lived on the brink of survival, but we have never forgotten what happened back in 1877-1878, how it ended and why it happened this way. Our attempt during this time to free all Bulgarians, to unite all Bulgarians in one country has ended in most cases with failure! Today we were at the opening of the monument of a great Bulgarian Colonel Drangov from various political forces, and we bowed to the idea of this great man. But we forget, honourable Members, that together with him we should celebrate the feat of many other nameless, famous and unknown, nameless and nameless characters of Bulgarian history. Therefore, on behalf of the United Patriarchs, I urge everyone to think clearly and, how can I tell you, with a tribute, a deep consciousness for an objective assessment of history, to bow down before this feat! Tomorrow, many of us, including myself, will be there at that hearing peak, to tell everyone who looks at us that we are there, that we will not give up on ourselves, for which many philosophers are calling us today; that we will remain who we are. By the way, we've failed a lot of empires, and we're going to ruin the one where they push us into which they want to make us a colony, and we all want to be colonial administration. In the name of Liberation, that's not gonna happen! Remember him! Thank you for your attention! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u180	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. We move on to a question to Minister Biser Petkov from the National Representative from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister, in Europe 21% of children face a risk of poverty and more than 20 million children each day bear the consequences of the lack of income in the family and access to basic services. It may sound incredible, but in the 21st century, in an economically developed Europe, most of these children are even starving. In Bulgaria the picture is no different or is quite different because children with material deprivation living at risk of poverty, according to the National Statistical Institute are 41.4 percent and each passing year is increasing at a serious pace. For example, for 2016 the number increased by 6.5 per cent compared to 2015. Within 2 minutes, I cannot fully outline the picture of poverty, but I will mention two details of.. 51.4 percent is the relative share of children with material deprivation, having been deprived of at least one of the 13 indicators needs that the National Statistical Institute monitors; for 6 percent of children, no need can be satisfied for financial reasons. Poverty is a serious problem and almost always leads to marginalisation and social exclusion, especially when it comes to children. Therefore, the causes of poverty in general must be eradicated, but especially among children, the vicious circle of poverty must be interrupted at the most childlike age possible. In order to resolve this problem and its long-term consequences, the Socialists and Democrats Group in the European Parliament initiated the introduction of a European Children's Guarantee and declared it a top priority for the Group. There is talk of equal access for children to education and Member States to have financial instruments to deal with child poverty. This is a new strategy for a children's guarantee, similar to the Youth Guarantee approved by the European Commission against unemployment among young people in the European Union. Given the picture in Bulgaria at risk of poverty living around 50% of the children, I ask for your answer to the following: do you think that such a European initiative is necessary and what dimensions should it have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u182	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The possibility of creating guarantees for the child is proposed in the European Commission's reflection document on the future of the European Union's finances. Bulgaria has a framework position on the document in which it expresses support for the initiative. We believe that this initiative will be useful in view of the growing number of children living at risk of poverty in the European Union, which is particularly worrying for Bulgaria. At the European level, preparatory actions are being carried out at this stage under the European Parliament's Children's Guarantee Initiative, as it is necessary to examine the applicability of the concept on which it is based that all children have access to adequate health care, education, child care, housing and nutrition. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy generally supports these directions, as these are the most important policies for raising children's well-being and reducing poverty and social exclusion among them. The initiative for child guarantees relates to actions at European level to implement Principle No 11 of the European Pillar of Social Rights, which guarantees the right of children to protection from poverty, the right of vulnerable children to special measures to promote equal opportunities, as well as the right of children to accessible and quality education and care at an early age. In this context, as you know, one of the main priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the field of labour and social affairs is precisely the promotion of integrated policies for early childhood development, as an instrument for reducing poverty and social exclusion among children. Finally, I would like to point out that the engagement of all Member States of the European Union, in the implementation of the principles laid down in the European Pillar of Social Rights in relation to children, will be of great importance for the implementation of better quality and more effective policies not only to guarantee children's rights, but also to support their families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, right to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the answer you're giving. I know about the framework position in support of the Children's Guarantee initiative. I agree, rather, you have agreed that the state owes the children, especially when it comes to their rights. We believe that we have consensus and common views with you that, apart from young people, children are also a major risk group for poverty and social exclusion, and this initiative by the Socialists and Democrats Group to introduce a European Children's Guarantee should be supported to ensure equal access to quality education, health care and food for children at least these three main things. We need to outline our priorities and policies in this direction and as if you outlined these policies and priorities in your response, I agree with you. Together with Europe, we can make the Children's Guarantee become a financial instrument to actively counteract child poverty. Bulgaria must be ready for this, although in Europe the problem exists and is serious, in Bulgaria is about two or three times more serious because of the number of more affected by the problem. We must give every child access to healthcare, education, child care, acceptable housing and adequate nutrition. Mr. Minister, perhaps in your duplicate, if you could answer me: would you support this initiative with some action by your side in relation to the Presidency of Bulgaria, because it is not among our priorities for the Presidency of the European Commission, but could this child guarantee be commented on in social policy meetings? A support from you would be good, as we are the most affected side of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u186	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to have the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, since you have formulated a question for me, I am taking advantage of the right of the duplicate. I have already said in my reply that one of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency in the field of labour and social affairs are the policies of early childhood development, which are directly related to improving the condition of children, and therefore the prevention of risk from the earliest childhood. In fact, I have already stressed that, within the framework of the application of the European Pillar of Social Rights, on which the Bulgarian Presidency is planning concrete initiatives, the issue will be discussed at the next Council of Ministers in March and the question raised for children will be discussed within the general framework of the implementation of the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Violeta Ruseva Zheleva. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question concerns the time limits for examining pension claims. In particular, I would like to introduce you to a case which I think is not normal to exist in the 21st century: when a person is granted disability pension due to a general illness, he periodically passes through a TELK commission. If the degree of performance changes, recalculation of this pension is required. In this case, it shall be suspended and shall not be paid until the new examination and decision of the NSI. Under the current regulation, this period is within up to four months. To my host many people, sometimes in extremely difficult health, ask me the following question: Is it normal without any income because they are mostly quite sick and have concomitant diseases that require expensive medicines to live in this way in this situation, but rather even to survive like this two, three or four months? For five years now, the regulatory deadline for considering, recalculating pension claims is within four months, as I mentioned. Given that in recent years work is being done to improve administrative services related to pension rights, I ask you: what does the time limit still have to remain of such a duration? Do you think that four months of consideration is an adequate period for the society in which we live, and does it provide due care for a certain group of pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u190	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, according to the provisions of the Pension and Insurance Internship Ordinance, the period for granting a pension shall be up to four months from the date of submission of the application. In the case of the implementation of an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party, the time limit for the ruling shall be one month from receipt of all necessary, further requested documents and data. Where the work pension documents submitted by the application for retirement are proven to be entitled to the relevant type of pension, it shall be granted and paid at a minimum amount until its actual amount has been determined in accordance with the Social Security Code. In that case, where a pension is first granted, the official shall be given within one month after the application has been lodged. One of the main elements in the pension formula when determining the amount of each pension is the country's average monthly social security income for 12 calendar months before the month in which the pension is granted. This income shall be declared by the National Insurance Institute not earlier than 40 days after the expiry of the period to which it relates, which is one of the main reasons determining the duration of the period for the decision of the pension authority. Another reason is the high starting of the administrative procedure for the granting of pensions. Since the beginning of 2018, an amendment to the Social Security Code has been in force under which insurers are required to issue insurance and income documents for periods after 2000 and to certify facts and circumstances relating thereto only upon request by the officials entrusted with the management of pension insurance in the territorial division of the NSI. Making direct correspondence with insurers to clarify and specify the insurance service and/or insurance income of the applicant for a pension is a process which takes an essential part of the time to clarify all the facts and circumstances governing the award of a pension order. It should also be taken into account that more than half of the processed applications require the pension authority to resort to the application of official start-up. The other cases in which technological time is needed to work in the granting of pensions are related to the requirement for the applicant to remedy deficiencies upon application with irregular and/or missing documents which cannot be corrected or received by official means, having a one-month period from the date of notification. The second reason is that a procedure for issuing certification documents by insurers who have ceased their activities, which do not have a successor, whose documents are kept in the separate centres of the joint insurance archive of the NSI. Further checks were carried out by the control bodies of the National Insurance Institute in case of doubts of the authenticity of documents submitted by the persons. It is important to bear in mind that the period of four months laid down in the Pension Ordinance is the maximum period for granting a pension. However, where regular service and income documents are presented, pension officials shall also be given a ruling before the statutory time limits have expired. I would like to inform you that the National Insurance Institute is working to build an entirely new technological order in order to order orders, which at a later stage will enable pensions to be granted and modified in online working arrangements. This will make it possible to reduce the period of administrative proceedings for the granting of pensions and to shorten the time limit for the decision of the pension authority from the beginning of 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Jeleva, you're entitled to a line within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In a large part of your reply, you have introduced us to the various pension procedures, and the Regulation everyone can read. But I wanted you to answer me specifically on this case what can be done, and what measures would you take? Of course, you may not yet have such a solution in this case, but at the end of the answer, I was satisfied that you nevertheless have political will and, above all, reason to reduce these deadlines. I hope that you will take the necessary measures in a timely manner in order for the Bulgarian pensioners to have some of them I mentioned to have a better and more dignified way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Secretary? You're not going to take advantage of your right to dodge. We're moving on to the next point we accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u195	Colleagues, thank Minister Petkov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the next item we have adopted from today's agenda. There's a procedure. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u196	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the debate referred to in point 7.1 of the weekly voting programme is concluded. I failed in the previous procedure to specify, but according to the rule of art. 105 of our Rules of Procedure shall be held within an hour, which means that we will exceed plenary time, perhaps even with the extensions that would follow in view of the declarations heard. Please extend the time until the hearing is completed by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u197	The debate. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal: to extend the working time until the debate is over and while we are voting. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mareshki has a statement. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u198	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! During one of the questions we discussed, Mr. Iankov said: "Prices are growing. Yes, we absolutely agree with this statement, but what do we do to keep them from growing up, and what is our involvement in that they have grown up over the years?! From what we see as attacks, shootings in previous parliaments and now between parliamentary parties, we understand that everyone, when they had the opportunity, was involved in raising prices. They've been involved in some oligarchic schemes, they've been involved in some corruption schemes, and we're getting there, and the situation is that prices are growing, and people are getting weak. I suppose that for none of you it is a secret, it is our daily activity that only I and I of the Political Party are developing real actions contrary to Mr. Yankov's claim, namely to do the impossible according to our efforts as a small parliamentary represented party, not so big businessmen to do the impossible to oppose this price hike and to make it possible to help the robbed Bulgarian people, as far as it can live a little more dignified and happier in Bulgaria. Why are we doing this? Because we believe that this is true patriotism. It's genuine patriotism in action. Not the empty and pointless and ineffective screaming in the squares, not the empty, pointless and ineffective talking from the stands or the media, chasing only the PR effect. Not going to the opening of monuments, but the real, daily struggle for well-being, for the incomes of the Bulgarian people, for the standard of the Bulgarian people. So of course, without any need for anyone to call us, I am sure that all of us will be on the events tomorrow in connection with the celebration of this round anniversary of our liberation. There's no need for anyone to recognize us. There everyone will want to touch the glory, the immortality of the Apostle and his companions. That's good. That's what the holidays are for. But the next day, we call you to go out into the cane, to go out into the field [[noise and lines]] , to do the work for which we are gathered here, namely that of opposing the promiscuous robbery of the Bulgarian people. We of the Will, as far as we can and told her, are doing well. We fight the cartel in fuel, we fight the cartel and the outrage in medicine supply. We call on not every single MP individually, at least every single parliamentary group to choose one sector and to be able to boast in one year of real action in this fight against the cartels, in this struggle, if it is true, for the well-being, for the well-being, for the happy life of the Bulgarians, for which Mr. Yankov called for, but with real deeds, once again I repeat, not with small talk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. We continue parliamentary control with: 7.1. Debates on the questioning of MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy. At the request of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov was responsible at the meeting on 23 February 2018, Friday. At the same meeting, 68 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with the Project for a solution. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the MPs in electronic form on 23 February 2018, Friday. A second draft Law for a decision by the MPs of the political party GERB parliamentary group on 2 March 2018 was introduced. The submitted draft decisions shall be as follows and shall be voted on in the following order: 1. Draft Decision of 68 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. Project for a decision submitted by the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB, No 854-02-15, of 2 March 2018. Welcome, the importers, within ten minutes to present the proposal for a debate. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u200	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate that we wanted to hold in relation to government policy and, more precisely, to the Ministry of Energy, led by the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova in the field of nuclear energy started not very well. I hope it ends well. Regarding the start, I have already spoken, I will not go back to a past stage in our discussions. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, when we asked our question about the strategy or policy in the field of nuclear energy, we derived only from the belief that when it comes to energy, when it comes to national security, when it comes to people paying electricity bills that are accessible and responding to their income, there is no alternative to providing sustainable energy other than nuclear energy. Given also the policy that the European Union is pursuing to reduce harmful emissions in the industry sector, and in this sector the biggest polluter is energy. Given that there is currently no other technology for sustainable generation and supply of energy other than nuclear energy, I am thinking without any cost, so we have also paid attention in our speeches by Mr. Ivan Genov, by Mr. Vasil Antonov, that the development of nuclear energy in Bulgaria is non-alternative. Given that the Minister of Energy under the Energy Act is the only one who conducts the energy policy in the country, can initiate and develop plans for the development of generating capacities, we have also proposed a solution in our proposal for the debates. Further, in my speech, I will take a closer look at the basis on which we want this decision to be examined and voted by the National Assembly. I would like to highlight two things that are extremely important and which I think should be clear before we move on to the debates. It is that there is no way that such a strategic sector in the country, such as energy, could solve the problems in it, divided into political biases. It cannot be something that, when it comes to citizens is not colored politically, to try to color it politically and that, if we want to do something that is related to investment, including looking for strategic investors, with the participation of the state, of course, there is no way that such decisions will not be adopted, if not by consensus, at least by a huge majority, according to the energy development strategy and policy. I hope that each and every one of us has come our way in realizing this problem. I hope that each and every one of us has made a reaction to his mistakes that he has made so far so that we can ultimately not stare at the mistakes, but learn from them and finally, when we learn the lesson, make the right decisions for the development of nuclear energy in the future. In my speech further, I will also refer to the decision, but once again I want you to be convinced that when we want these debates and insist on them, it is only and only in the interests of the Bulgarian people, only in the interests of those who voted for us, only and only in the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. I think that on the eve of the holiday of the Republic of Bulgaria it is nice to show that we are all concerned about this sustainable development of our country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, I will tell you what is the distribution of time in parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB has 19 minutes, the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u202	There's one more solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u203	Sorry, I'm distracted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. We have a second solution. Here you go. Once again, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u204	Can you apologize three times?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u205	Third time, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u206	Madam President, honourable Members! I thank the President for still giving the floor to the government, to present the reasons in our draft decision. In fact, the draft decision that we have tabled, me and fellow Members of the National Assembly, is almost identical, with the draft that BSP has introduced. In fact, another way is structured the proposal and another time limit is given. The BSP colleagues have offered a month, we offer five months because what we want from the cabinet, from the Minister of Energy, will take time. In this regard, before I state our motives, I am making a procedural proposal to make it clear the time limit, instead of five months, to be recorded by 30 June 2018. As a procedure, Madam President, if you can write it down. The essence of the proposal of both our and our colleagues from BSP is that we want the Council of Ministers to submit concrete proposals, through the Minister of Energy, related to the opportunities for realization of the assets under the Project for the construction of NPP "Belene" including the separation of assets and liabilities for the project, into a separate legal entity. On this topic, as well as on other topics in the field of energy, we have always found common ground in plenary. The last three years have proved that our decisions have been correct because we have managed to stabilise energy with legislative solutions and regulatory ones. An example of this is yesterday's hearing, for example in the Energy Commission, where for five hours we have been able to debate the topic related to CEZ and the deal about CEZ. Again I say the decision is not very different from the decision of BSP colleagues. It's a different time frame. I repeat my procedural proposal by 30 June 2018. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, fellow Members, for your speech. I take it there are no speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! I will allow myself, in the context of today's subject, to say a few things that are generally clear, but especially today, it is important to remind them. I would like to introduce you to a study that has been presented to the Energy Commission of the International Atomic Energy Agency and to say a few things. Not only in one person's life, but also in the history of nations and nations, decisions can be made easier and more difficult. Today's decisions or the decision we are going to, I hope together, perhaps what is positive about it is that we have taken it after various long-standing opinions. After all, I think it's somewhat sweeter and wiser when we've been conditionally speaking in different positions for a long time, and now we're looking in the same direction. My arguments are as follows, they are quite serious. The latest reports between the State Panel on Climate Change, the so-called IPCC, represent extremely serious data on human action on climate. The latest decisions of 2015 of the Paris Agreement, of the Framework Convention on Climate, say exactly and clearly one thing: "You have no time to lose because life on earth, not only nature and human life is changing under the action of traditionally used fuels. You don't have time for innovative, urgent solutions to change, colleagues, not some political orientations, not political debates, but human life. Bulgaria, however small, is one of the major still pollutants in terms of both greenhouse gases and sulphur and carbon dioxide. The country makes serious efforts not to do so, but it is all about the possession and implementation of new technologies. I will not hide that there are serious opponents who are talking about the so-called "carbon's footprint of energy-efficient technologies, including nuclear. There are claims that, you see, renewable energy sources, including nuclear energy, if we trace the entire life cycle from the extraction of fuel through the metal equipment that should be made for fins and solars, food security, so-called food security, excuse me for saying it this way, are a challenge that should propel us to stay to the use of traditional fuels. Our opinion and official position is that at the moment, the faster we unite around solutions that will give a clear perspective on the use of nuclear energy for those purposes that we are talking about, including through the "Belene" project, God willing and others, the faster we will be on track with time. I don't want to talk better than I can say people in this House what the extra effect is for the national economy and ultimately for the welfare of the citizens if we give our hands here. I do not see any significant differences between the two proposals. If they are cleaned out in text, I think we can repeat, really slightly suffered over the years, to achieve a draft decision to become effective and, together with the executive in this case, in a foreseeable period to do something good. Finally, I would like to say that pride and honor will be for Bulgaria to preserve its nuclear energy, because both in terms of socio-economic and environmental, but also in matters of education and technology few are nations, you know well that can have the pride to have such a priority. I'm not gonna talk anymore because the weather is advanced. It's Friday, we all have assignments. I would like to say that I am optimistic about what we can do right now with regard to this decision. Let's say clearly in conclusion I would like this to be another project in which the Bulgarian national interest is highlighted and the state is crucial in the production and sale of energy from a nuclear source, i.e. to give examples in this direction. Not just to go through and do a project, but to show the participation of the Bulgarian state, but let us make this clear in the specific models possible for action. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u210	Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I respect you very much as an expert, but I felt compelled to make a line to clarify something. Today, we are not deciding to build or not to build a nuclear power plant, we are not deciding whether or not to have additional nuclear power. The decision we make does not exclude any option for the government, both the construction of the Central Belene, in this case, if it so determines, and possibly the VI block of the NPP, of Kozloduy, or the sale of the equipment in question. Even the solution implies a roadmap with different options, with different steps to try first, second, third thing, to get some realization of the equipment that the Bulgarian energy currently owns. This is my only comment that we are not actually deciding here to build or not, rather we are deciding to ask the Council of Ministers, also the Minister of Energy, by 30 June 2018 to present us with a roadmap on what the government intends to do with the equipment it owns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u212	Dear Mr. Dobrev, honourable Members, Mrs. Chairman! Thank you for calling me an expert in energy and energy. I'm not one of those, but I'm trying to make some kind of effort.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u213	I didn't say that in general!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u214	In general, an expert is a wide expert, thank you. I am aware of the procedure we are in, however, there are three circumstances that probably make me seem a little more excited. The first is that I am always happy when there is consensus in the House on important issues and I feel it in the air. The second thing is that I am still referring to the Project for your decision to submit concrete proposals related to the possibilities for realization of the assets under the Project for the construction of NPP "Belene" including the separation of assets, and so on. I am aware that now we are not going to make a decision on the construction of the project.. It would be absurd, but I am also aware that with this decision we are opening up an extremely serious action plan and after putting all the arguments on the table, we are going to make the best decision, including the options you have listed. In conclusion, I welcome the launch of this action plan. Thank you for the correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u216	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since we went over to Belene, we missed reading our proposal for a solution first. If you'll allow me, let me do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u217	I was gonna ask you later.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u218	I will not read it all, I will only refer to that part of what we propose to the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Instructs the Minister of Energy within one month to separate the assets and liabilities of the NPP project "Belene" in a separate project company. 2. To propose to the National Assembly a roadmap with the necessary actions and deadlines for the final decision on the NPP project As you can see, in their text section, the two projects overlap to a large extent is the structure. We most likely have differences in the deadlines that are set out in this draft decision, but it is good to make a decision, albeit with a different deadline than not to make any. In this regard, because of the matter of Belene, you will allow me to remind you, within perhaps seven minutes, of what is "Belene" because there are young MPs in the Chamber who may not know. The project started in 1981 and after a number of studies with Decree No 9 of 20 March the same year of the Council of Ministers was established the site for the construction of a second nuclear power plant in Bulgaria. The location is 3 km from the town of Belene, Pleven district and 11 km from the town of Svishtov, Veliko Tarnovo district. As you can see, it has an impact on two areas. For 37 years, this project has set a record of three first cracks, two stops and two restarts. It has invested a number of funds in the state, its realization is a guarantee of a strong economy of our country in the field of energy, as an element of nuclear energy, I have already mentioned why it is the case and its taking on a well-deserved place in the Balkans as an exporter of electricity. Just to remind you that in 2013 even a referendum was held on this issue and people responded to the implementation and development of nuclear energy. The failure to complete the Project for the Second Nuclear Power Plant in Bulgaria is, unfortunately, the result of many years of inconsistent policy by the state. We, as a party, have always been adamant that the NPP "Belene" should work because we see this project as a national issue and in the long term as an element of the stable and developing Bulgarian economy and that it is a matter of national security. I will not dwell on the policies of the European Union - the people's representative Kostadinov very well told you what this is about, even more so as an expert in the field and the environment. You know that at the moment in Bulgaria we have a large part of the problem with basic energy outputs - perhaps not by today, but by tomorrow's development of the state, including the introduction of additional electric vehicles, increasing the energy comfort of the citizens. I don't want to go into this statistic, you can find it anywhere. In other words, reducing the energy intensity of gross domestic product or the so-called increase in energy efficiency is only going to result in a relative reduction in the consumption of a product unit, but will not result in an absolute reduction in energy consumption. On the contrary, we will have growth, but it will be smoother than the growth of gross domestic product. I don't want to read this lecture to you either. I would like to refer further to the latest developments in the area of Belene. You remember that for more than a year we have paid equipment that is located on the site in Belene. I hope, in a good condition that can allow its further use. We've got a playground. The Ministry of Energy ordered the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to analyze the possibilities for completion of the project "NPP "Belene" which largely confirmed the analysis made by a bank that was ordered of this project. He made the following most important conclusions related to the Project: that there is expected to be an increase in the prices of base electricity in Bulgaria and in the region in the coming years, the costs of construction, financing, state participation, the new European stricter norms, a deficit of base electricity in Bulgaria and in the region. The most important thing the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences said is that the worst scenario in terms of Belene is if nothing is done on the equipment and on the site, because this will be equivalent to the loss of all the resources invested so far, and I think there is no country that would allow such loss. We've already talked about coal plants. There's no point in stopping at them. I would just like to remind you that in a horizon around 2050, for purely operational reasons, the preparation for the extraction of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant will begin. There are no permanent reactors. If we do not take up the construction of a new power plant from now on, we will not have the opportunity to then talk about the VIII and VIII block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" as a continuation of the state's policy in our nuclear energy, which basically means that there is a great danger that we will be left without such energy, without such a power plant, and that we will start importing electricity. In short, I think it is necessary, based on the conclusions that have been drawn by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, to unblock the process of the decision of the case of Belene (Belene) for many years, a process that has now led us to the condition to have equipment, to have a playground, but to have no clarity as to what and how it should be done in relation to this site. Once again, I refer to the Minister of Energy, given that this is exceptional and only in its powers,... no matter which of the two decisions will be adopted by the Members of the National Assembly, let the time limit set inside be the deadline. And I, as Vice-President of the Energy Committee, hope with the agreement of the other Commissioners, will exercise ongoing control over what you are doing. We promise you that we will not wait for you until the end of the term that is now adopted, and we will periodically ask for information about what is being done and how it is done so that it does not end up in the deadline that the National Assembly determines you will not be ready to answer us. I hope, once again, the minds of the MPs, our belief that the state of Bulgaria deserves modern technology, modern energy and our sincere desire to finally find that common solution that will allow us to realize this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, it is your duty to conduct energy policy, and I believe that, as one of the main paragraphs of the Energy Act, you must fulfil your obligation, for which we have been insisting for many years from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in this House, and it is that I may already be banal, but: when and how will we have a Strategy for the Development of Energy in Bulgaria? Colleagues, let us not rush to put things in such a way that we will step by step know what we will do with energy in Bulgaria. I do not want to be concerned with the statement of the gentlemen from the BSP who said that nuclear energy has no alternative. No, there's an alternative. I am surprised that a former Deputy Minister of Ecology so strongly developed the thesis of how and how to develop nuclear energy. However, I am also surprised at GERB how, in what way and why you changed your arguments for stopping a project that was going to develop according to the Strategy until 2008, which Bulgaria had. Dear colleagues, perhaps today is the time to restore the authority of the National Assembly, because a meeting which was set to start at 9.00 for a serious part of Bulgaria's economy, especially for energy, due to various political games today we are looking again at this topic, off the agenda, and we are not with the pulse of time. Dear colleagues, two absolutely identical decisions. One was imported three minutes ago, the other was imported a week ago. So I come back to the first question: since they are so identical, this road map that you are talking about will be a strategy for energy development, it will decide the question when, how and in what way will the ultimate goal be built! What's the road map gonna do, guys? We're going to cancel the moratorium that the National Assembly has put in place? Dear colleagues, if we do not have a strategy and we do not finally determine in it how we will develop the energy in Bulgaria, what share nuclear energy will take, what share the hydrocarbon production will take, because you know that in addition to hydrogen cyanide and nitrogen dioxide, including those mercury compounds that remain in the production of hydrocarbons, if all these things are not put on the table here, in the National Assembly, as a policy of the Ministry, as a decision of a serious institution established by the National Assembly Energy Strategy, your decisions today are to create a situation in which both BSP and you agree that you have a certain consensus, which is very fragile. We have no reason to say what our attitude to individual parts of energy is, but we are concerned about the overall development of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any lines to Mr. Atalay's statement? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Mr. Atalay, I absolutely agree with your statement with some exceptions. Indeed, in Bulgaria, and the Minister must confess the policy of the strategy which should have been adopted by the National Assembly. The point is that we currently have a strategy that is up to 2020, which is in force. It's written here. It says 2,000 megawatts of nuclear power. It doesn't say where, but it says "2000 megawatt nuclear power." On this, there is a decision of the National Assembly, not for a moratorium, but for the suspension of the project. There is a decision of the National Assembly for the study of the VΙΙÄ block of NPP "Kozloduy." At the moment, if we are abstracted from all other conventions and look at the legal documents, we need to develop the VΙΙΙ block of the NPP "Kozloduy" according to everything that is adopted in this National Assembly. In fact, even these two decisions, under one of which I have signed, are becoming a little ridiculous based on the decisions of the National Assembly, because we have to develop the VΙΙΙ block of the NPP Otherwise, you're absolutely right. I think that, indeed, a strategy around which we can all unite, we see that there is a unity in energy in the Energy Commission, we are putting much less policy, which is good, and I think that a strategy is really necessary and the faster, the better. It is this equipment in the context of this strategy to be developed, but we still expect it to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u224	Thank you. Just to be precise, at least this strategy, which has it, has been changed and it says "1000 megawatts of nuclear power" and not "2000" in it. Two thousand were by 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u225	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u226	Madam President, honourable Members, I will try to be very brief. I was not going to speak, but somewhat my colleague Atalay provoked me by the fact that GERB had changed their position. GERB has not changed their position. We believe that neither at the start of the project nor upon its suspension in 2012, nor today, this project is within the state's power to implement it itself. The project was stopped because state energy and the state could not provide funding of 20 billion. lv. This was confirmed by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and by all the analyses before that. lv. total value for the construction of NPP "Belene". To note to the Minister that we hope that the road map, which they offer us in the National Assembly, by no means, does not include state or corporate guarantees, without long-term contracts, without preferential prices, without contracts of difference, without financial commitments of the state or of energy, without mixing the price, whatever ideas we have heard in the past, and without any other commitments from the State, because if we have such commitments, we will not be surprised to find ourselves in a situation where we have long-term contracts and preferential prices and all of us, in the context of an obligation to society, are paying some money to make a certain investment. For me, the roadmap in its options should exclude any guarantees, funding from the state and so on. The state has so far given enough for this project. The amount is over 3 billion. BGN, we have a playground, licenses, equipment. The state must give no more money or guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any lines to Mr. Dobrev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u228	It wouldn't be right if we at Ataka didn't get involved in this issue, because we are the political force that most consistently defended the battle for nuclear energy of Bulgaria. We were the ones who opposed the insecure decision taken by the Bulgarian Parliament to stop the NPP project. If there are people in this room who remember the battle we fought in this relationship. I say the insecure decision was made because at the time we witnessed that it was not a decision, as appropriate by the Bulgarian Parliament, but was taken by a foreign minister who came for five hours, talked with the President, the Prime Minister, not even with the President of the National Assembly. Three of these five hours were dedicated to her meetings with Gypsy organizations and the National Assembly made this decision, which prevented us from having a nuclear power plant with two blocks, with a cost of 6 pennies at a price that was enviable for that moment. Whatever the decision on the future of nuclear power will be, from now on it will be sovereignly taken by the Bulgarian Parliament, by the Bulgarian parties. You see that the Bulgarian parties agree with this draft decision. Here a non-Bulgarian party only makes obstructions and this is quite understandable, given that it protects foreign interest, protects the interest of a neighbouring country that is powerfully developing, builds nuclear energy on its territory, but Bulgaria should not have that right. This decision is actually important because it starts the process. I'm sure there will be great contradictions, sharp disputes in this House about the implementation of the Project, but this will give birth to the truth. What is important is that we have proved right years ago when we said that the subject will not remain on the sidelines, that it will be revived, and at some point the country that will realise its need for these nuclear facilities will proceed to their construction. I congratulate all the government and the Bulgarian Parliament for this sovereignly taken, I hope, after a moment of a fact decision and it should be an example in the future of how we Bulgarians should make our decisions independently and sovereignly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u229	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mrs. Petkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I would like to apologize for the fact that, as Mr Ermenkov mentioned, today's meeting has not started well. It's my fault. Unfortunately, I had a personal commitment that was poet long before that, and I didn't get a chance to postpone it. For this reason, since I didn't know what time period it would take me, I took a day off. I'm sorry! As you can see, I have managed to cope and I am here before you, ready to answer your questions and to have this important debate at all. Firstly, I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made. I would like to thank you for seeing consensus again, when it comes to issues that are extremely important in the sector................. and as Mr. Dobrev mentioned that we have proved that when there are important decisions to be made in the energy sector...........................we have found the strength to overcome some political contradictions when it comes to Bulgaria's interests. As Mr. Ermenkov pointed out, all that we do, our duty, is to work solely for the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I dare to assure you, Mr. Ermenkov and the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament that the government of Prime Minister Borisov in our previous term and in our current management mandate, when it comes to energy, nuclear energy, for the NPP project "Belene." Believe me, we are doing everything possible and working only in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. This is our main goal and this is our main creed in this direction. I will not go back in time, because, as has already been mentioned, I hope that everyone has learned their lessons from the mistakes of the past, we must look forward and move forward. We need to know what we have - we have a site licensed; we have a project that is notified; we have equipment that is already here; we have paid equipment -- a billion 176 million were provided by the budget in 2016, we paid the equipment and it is here now, but from now on the much more important question: how are we going to move forward, in what direction? I absolutely agree, and I believe that this is the only right direction for us to seek consensus. These are important decisions. We all realize that whatever decision is made in this direction will be an extremely important decision that will concern generations ahead. We can't make such an important decision, so there may be disputes, there may be debates, there may be discussions, but this is the way we have to walk together to really get to a consensus solution that will be in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I am very happy that we are putting a good start to this discussion and if you, colleagues from the opposition, support the decision of colleagues from the Political Party GERB for this to change the deadline, because de facto the main nuances are in terms of the deadline related to this report or those proposals that the government should present, I think this will really be a serious step forward towards finding the best solution for Bulgarian citizens and Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-02.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the decision put forward first at the time of the proposal. ? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debate on questions No 854-05-4/31 January 2018 by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy The National Assembly of the Republic on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister for Energy within one month: 1. To separate the assets and liabilities of the NPP project in a separate project company (legal entity). 2. To propose to the National Assembly a roadmap with the necessary actions and deadlines for a final decision on the NPP project Signatures: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs, 48 against 4, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second draft decision concerning the debate on questions No 854-05-4/31 January 2018 by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy. The National Assembly of the Republic on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Colleagues, here we must first vote on the editorial amendment, on the editorial proposal and then vote on the whole text of the Decision, so that: First, let's vote on the editorial amendment Mr. Dobrev proposed. Please vote. Vote 137 MPs: for 136, there is no abstention 1. Now I read the entire Project for a solution, respectively, with the amendment: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debate on questions No 854-05-4/31 January 2018 by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on nuclear energy policy The National Assembly of the Republic on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Energy to submit specific proposals by 30 June 2018 relating to the possibilities for realization of the assets under the project for the construction of the nuclear power plant, including the separation of the assets and liabilities for the project into a separate legal entity. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Thanks to all your colleagues. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am calling the meeting. The regular plenary session will be held on 7 March 2018, Wednesday. [[PHONE RINGING]]
