ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I have an announcement to make: On the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I withdraw my participation as an importer of a draft decision to announce the town of Stara Zagora as a city of Bulgarian war glory, No 854-02-65, submitted on 23 November 2018 by Jayhan Ibryamov. We move on to the second chapter of the 2019 STATE BUDGET. Let's continue with Rule 25. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u2	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u3	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 25, which the Commission supports. Vote 156 MPs: 113, against 40, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u4	Under art. 26 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: " I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made. "1." In para. 1: (a) in Section II. ????????????????????????????????????????????????? - in line two. The number of.115 689.4 is replaced by.120 691.0. - on line one. "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures'. - in row 1.1. The number of the number..101 721,9. is replaced by.104 677,5. - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "8 800,0'. - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "8 800,0'. (b) in Section III. THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR - in line III. The number of "115 489,4" is replaced by "120 491,0." 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "National Security Protection Policy' is replaced by "120 691.0'. b) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u5	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 160 MPs: 34 against 88, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 26, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 113 against 37, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u6	Articles 27 to 29 are not proposed by an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u7	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the texts of the rapporteur of Articles 27, 28 and 29 supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 117, against 40, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u8	Articles 30 to 36 are by importer.. There are no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u9	Straight to art. 41 may, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u10	To art. 41 including no suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put it to the vote of art. 30 to art. 41 including with import texts supported by the Commission. Vote 160 MPs: 120, against 38, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u12	Article 42 is by importer.. There are no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u13	Statements under art. 42? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 42. Vote 159 MPs: 118 against 41 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u14	Under art. 43 has a proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in Section II. ????????????????????????????????????????????????? - in line two. The number - on line one. "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and Something's wrong with the coworkers here! In row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "50 200,0'. (b) in Section III. "BOUJET REPRESENTATIONS" (Transfers) - in line III. The number of "4 993.0" is replaced by "54 993.0." - on line one. The number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Union is replaced by the number of the budget of the European Central Bank of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u15	Here you are for speeches, colleagues, under Art. 43. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Of course, this is about something extremely important. We are talking about an additional $50 million to provide funds for the purchase of new machines. After all, under our legislation, we must provide these funds and must buy new machines with a view to machine voting. Mr. Minister of Finance has repeatedly stated that he would provide this money when the engine vote was already clearly and categorically stated in the Law. That's a fact. That 50 million is necessary for the purchase of machinery. If we do not provide them now, this means that we once again will not comply with the legislation of the Bulgarian Parliament and, accordingly, we are giving up the machine voting. I believe that this is an extremely important topic and I also call on the MPs from GERB to come out on the stand and make their clear and firm opinion whether they are for the engine vote or not? Because if we do not now vote this additional 50 million for machines, that means, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not hear the Bulgarian voters who clearly and categorically state that they want a machine vote. Moreover, the engine vote will avoid any manipulations or interpretations of the vote. We know very well what is going on in specific sections, we know that there are doubts I don't know if there's gonna be anyone in this room who's against the engine vote just a little bit to get into the sections, but in order for that to happen, funds are needed. These funds must be voted on now. However, if GERB refuses, as they try to pass legislation, to change and to oppose the will of Bulgarian citizens, this clearly shows that they are once again preparing to manipulate the elections. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] If you are not manipulating elections, fellow Members, then you must secure these funds so that we of the opposition are calm that there is no manipulation and use the machine voting. There is nothing wrong with having a machine-voting thing going on in almost all developed European countries, and we, if we have a claim to be such a state, should finally start the machines one by one, I do not say in all sections. But we really need to start infiltrating them. Because in mobile sections the fact is that there is no machine, there is no way in a section abroad for example to provide it. But here we already have to show willpower and therefore we have to ensure that these funds are certainly in the budget to show the clear will of GERB that they are for transparent elections. If you, colleagues, are against this, there is no way you can stop us from interpreting this negative will again to have some manipulation of the elections, perhaps [[(Replys: ……]] or in any way you allow the opposition or try to create chaos. Therefore, the most normal thing is now to vote on these additional funds. Moreover, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly stated that this money will be provided as soon as elections come when we have an election year this year, next year, pardon, colleagues, is an election year. This budget will be an election year budget. Whether it's going to be two choices or three, it's going to be three. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Therefore, it is nice to have the necessary funds from now on so that people and Bulgarian voters can be calm and minimize political passions and really enter the 21st century. It is time for us to actually enter the 21st century. Here, colleagues, this is not about e-voting. This is about a machine vote, and I believe that there is no one in this room who wants us to stay in the 20th century or the 19th century. It is quite normal for machine voting, as in any European country, to be that parliament that is already making the necessary effort to really see the light of day. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. The line, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u18	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Stoynev, you are talking here about the will of the people and what he expressed in the referendum on engine voting. I would add to you that, apart from the will of the people, this is the will of the law, and according to this law, the last elections had to be held by machine voting. And when the institution that makes the laws and is most responsible to comply with them, it breaks them down, here, against this system, colleagues, protesting people. It's against this system that bends the laws and doesn't comply with the will of the people. And that's why these actions of yours will play a bad joke on you, and pretty soon people with machines or without machines will send you where you belong. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u19	Thank you. Thank you for your wishes. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u20	Dear Mr. Prodanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I hope you will take an attitude, because this is really extremely important. This is about preserving Bulgarian democracy and whether we are ready to defend it. [[Radio.]] I say this because this way you will clear the opposition's doubts and say it best. After all, today we start the day with a scandal - GERB refuse to provide the necessary funds for machine voting, and by law we should have machines provided next year. And here you have to convince us that either there is no money, which we doubt, or you simply do not want the machines and want to take away the Bulgarian citizens from their wish, from their democratic right in the 21st century to start voting machine. I can't figure out what we're afraid of or what you're afraid of? In the end, citizens will also have the right to choose. No one said it would be all machine, but let's give them that right in every section to have machines. GERB today, I very much hope the patriots do not follow them, but as I look at them they are always together in these anti-democratic actions, I very much hope that you will really reconsider this decision of yours and support the BSP proposal. If it is so difficult to support the opposition, believe me that this is the opinion of many of the Bulgarian citizens, but these funds must be provided. I don't see anything wrong with providing the funds. There are these funds. Let's not really start the day with such a huge anti-democratic scandal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u22	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Since we are witnessing an attempt to politicize the provision we are discussing, I will therefore give a lot of data and circumstances that are known to colleagues, but they prefer not to mention them so that we can feel the whiff of the clever beauty, the reformist beauty that we heard about in the last parliament. [[Radio.]] I'll start with the CEC analysis. We have commissioned, and colleagues from the opposition must remember that we have entrusted the CEC with two groups of activities. These two groups of activities are described in detail in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Election Code. Some refer to remote electronic voting, others refer to machine voting. As a result of the commission, the CEC, which was not appointed by this Parliament, was not appointed by the last parliament, was appointed by the 40th National Assembly, by the Commission, which was led by the colleague who is now the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. So, this composition of the CEC did two analysis and sent the analyses to parliament. I am also convinced that you received them because they were distributed to each parliamentary group. You have seen the conclusions of the Central Election Commission. The CEC also requested from the President Mrs. Karayancheva and initiated two meetings with representatives of all parliamentary groups. I attended those meetings. I suppose representatives of the opposition have also responded to this invitation. These meetings were attended by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, representatives of the What was indisputable in the debate is the professional debate, not the political debate, in these discussions by the Central Election Commission: The CEC cannot, should not, should not, has no sense to organise the sending of machines in every section, even those sections, which are for voting outside Bulgaria, the sections abroad. There's no way he can send a machine into every ship where there's a sectary election commission. It makes no sense for mobile sectional election committees to also be equipped with machines. This is extremely inappropriate and does not in any way support the credibility of the truth of the vote. Speaking of the truth of the vote, I will say this: at the time Mrs. Manolova developed this regime in the Election Code and drove the mayors of public events to place themselves on the machines... [[Noise and lines.]] You've got to be kidding me. A Southwest dialect means to press the corresponding touchscreen marking. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] I didn't know either, but then the Bulgarian people were trained in this. So, jumping on machines does not take the following into account: the time to process the results of the engine vote is more than the time to process normal voting protocols. Why? Because there's a double counting, so we don't save time, nor do we eliminate the risk period that will limit the possibility of manipulation. For this reason we have proposed, I see that my time is running out, so I am in a hurry, we have proposed to discuss dropping the engine vote only for this critical category sections. In the others, let there be, but you will see that this is not preferred as a way of voting by voters, but let it be. In addition, we have provided concretely on the topic, we have provided for direct award, as Manolova commissioned the printing of the newsletters at the printing shop of BNB, so we have entrusted to So we don't have 50 million. lv. Needlessly spent on a thousand machines. In order to be able to make the machines at the price of a computer. That's why there's nothing true about what you said. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, everything you said was true with one exception. You have made a mistake to distract a manipulation of BSP colleagues and it is that Bulgarian citizens have spoken in a referendum regarding the introduction of a machine vote. Bulgarian citizens spoke in a referendum on electronic remote voting and, as I recall, it had no binding force under the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Not to mention that specifically with regard to electronic remote voting, it turned out to be an unreliable method. Just remember what happened in Holland and how Holland gave up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you've been explaining to us how something can't happen. And CEC's opinion, others' opinion, experts' opinion. We have the law. The law must be respected. We're gonna have an election this year. By law, we must have machines provided for us. I also agree with that in my statement that in certain sections it is impossible to have machines, but in the territory of Bulgaria, without those who are mobile, it is imperative that in each section there are machines. Money provided for machines, is there? I won't. If there is, let the minister come out and calm the opposition, because it is only natural for us to have doubts. Now, if this composition, or any other, will implement the legislation, this is now the work of the CEC, it is not our job. If they can't handle it, then let's take some action, but they have to handle it. No, I'm not talking about the cast. They have to deal with it. And this is why we react that the Bulgarian legislation is once again violated and violated by the Bulgarian Parliament, but the minister must go out and say if there will be the necessary funds. That's why we're offering that extra 50 million. lv. for capital costs so that the machines can be purchased. That's it, that's the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Nenkov, for the third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u28	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will start from where the speaker ended, although in his reply that this is the debate. No! Mr. Kirilov, this is not the debate. You have tried to avoid purely political speaking, to look into the subject in general and generally about the introduction of the machine voting system, about where the real problems are, about how the state should not allow it to spend some 50 million in the wind, but at the heart of the speech of the speaker, it wasn't really the debate, it was an attempt. I even congratulate my fellow Members on the left because with their political shortsightedness today I have been disproved because it does not end only until a possible next protest in one or two days, and their political shortsightedness has become more broad-spectrum. They're getting ready to say how, when they lose the election, they'll have some excuse. Otherwise, they're very brave, big campaigners for new elections, but from now on they're looking for an excuse for why they lost the election. And because they were great at democratic ways, we can very easily remember, Mr. Kirilov, that you would return a few years ago to the Kostinbrod affair, about how these same people deceived society, how they manipulated people's vote, because it was an absolute anti-democratic manipulation of public trust, of the public vote. And not to talk to me about any democratic values, because the essence of their debate, of the speech, was precisely to ensure that when they lose the elections, they will have some, at least, minimal justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u30	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament, colleagues who have made speeches! Maybe I'll start backwards. Mr. Nenkov, I don't want to remember the affair of Kostinbrod, I don't want to remember how the pseudotrial ended in this regard. However, I would like to remind you that you have challenged the method of electronic remote voting and the signatures of many of you can be found under the request to the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of the.... remote voting............................................................................... You certainly vary in those according to interest. I'll also say this: 50 million is a lot, even if we double each voting section with a machine. So far, the Central Election Commission has been financially, with sufficient resources to conduct the experiments on electronic remote voting and the procedures concerning machine voting. The activities of the CEC are secured. According to my colleague Stoinev's line, Mr. Stoinev, we have accepted this rule. We have obliged the CEC in each section to have one. Lawmaker in the Law recorded: there should be in each section. He didn't say it so explicitly, but it's interpreted by colleagues who are not in parliament right now. The CEC therefore did this analysis, so it asked for these meetings, so it informed the President of Parliament and the parliamentary groups, because he said: we cannot perform it 100%, we can perform it in volume, for example 80%. Once again, if you accept our proposal, which would be discussed this afternoon at the Committee on Legal Affairs, let's assign this work to................................ These machines aren't going to be infinitely expensive. Their rent will not be in the order of 3000 to 5000 leva. They will be at a normal price, an acceptable price and additional costs will cover servicing and maintenance. Because here the problem is not only the purchase of machines that we offer to be owned by the Bulgarian state, but the problem is, as SANS said: you must have verified software that is properly serviced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Milkov had a statement, Mr. Tsonev, then Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u32	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! The issue of engine voting is regulated in art. 206 of the Election Code and in paragraphs 10 and 11. We need to turn the engine vote from some exception, from some weirdness to a principle. This is described in the Law. In the reasons of the Bill that we will discuss today, your, in the Legal Commission, you have recorded statistics in the last three choices on how to use machines. And you know, from your bill we learn that without being a principle, without being a special policy of the state, without having them in all sections, the machines are used as follows: the first time This means that without the state having made the necessary policy to fully acquaint citizens without the machines present in each section, you see how their use increases from their very presence in the sections. This is the first thing to say: that citizens are ready and willing to use machine voting. The analysis of the CEC, referred to by colleague Kirilov, is from February 2018. Whatever we talked about in February last year about readiness, in August this year the CEC has already started a study to buy these 12 500 machines. Well, what do citizens think, what should we think when law is written that it will be introduced? In the work of the CEC August she did research to purchase 12 500 machines, and it is quite normal that all this thing should reflect with this amount in the budget for the purchase. In the next place,.. personal experience, although I have said that previous experience can not always be a legal argument. As a member of sectional committees many times, of a regional committee and as an observer in elections in other countries, I will tell you: the engine vote has been introduced and applied. It eases the work of the people of the electoral administration and guarantees to a large extent the actuality and fidelity of the vote. Moreover, if it is accompanied by what colleagues have proposed in their bill video surveillance in the sectional election committees, so that every citizen can freely, from every point of the country and the world, monitor the electoral process. We're talking about an amount that isn't about an aircraft carrier or something huge, we're talking about 30 to 50 million. lv. The CEC is already investigating the purchase of these machines, is willing to be introduced. In this situation, your persistence remains inexplicable. The CEC wants it, it's in law, people want it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Minister, Dr. Milkov! In the form of a line, I'll actually start with a procedure. My request is this: we will look at the afternoon, life and health, a bill to amend the Election Code. Let us not turn the debate on the budget into a debate on a bill that we are not officially looking at right now, because we are already referencing to a future bill and legislative procedure. Mr. Milkov, this afternoon, if we have a Commission, the CEC will be on the Commission. You'll hear them, you must have missed their position. Obviously, you also missed the opinion of.. Information service... about the effectiveness of voting with machines. With regard to the video surveillance proposed in the Law of Members of the National Assembly, I will keep my arguments. Let's comment on it when the time is right. But I repeat: and now the CEC has and has been secured with funding, and will continue to be secured. If we accept the Information Service that we recommend, it is definitely... and with the funds of................................................................................................ and with the funds provided in the budget of the CECKI budget........................................................................................................................................... Please, let's not spread the debate, let's not try to debate twice about the same thing, just to mislead our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u36	Dear Mr. Kirilov, you, when you adopted the Law and when the principle was established that there would be a machine voting and there would be a previous period in which it would be introduced with limited application, then did you ask the CEC in advance for an opinion? Apropo, he's a collegial organ. People then took it the right way, with approval. And I'm telling you, they will accept it with approval, because a machine in each section guarantees faster work by the sectary electoral commission, exactly and uncontroversial census and verification of the vote at the time it is implemented. I've seen it live in countries much bigger than Bulgaria in each section. The CEC's opinion is of an authority which must implement a provision that would lead to effort, multiple times more work and, of course, encounter difficulties. But we are a political body, we are a body that determines what is good for people and for the state. It's good for people to have a machine vote. So, yes, we will create more work for the CEC, we will create more work for the electoral administration, and in the end I hope that in each section there will be a machine, that will satisfy people and lead to fair and fair elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsonev made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will also appeal for the debate on the CEC budget not to become a debate on the..................................... I believe that there is already consensus in this House on the issue that machine voting must be introduced in full volume and scope, of course, with the corresponding exceptions for moving sections, for sections with a very small number of voters and so on. But this is a question that, if we have an afternoon Legal Committee, we'll start looking into it. However, the issue is the budget. Mr. Minister, 5 million isn't enough, there's no collateral for machines.................................................................................................. But even figures of the order of 50 and 30 million are also unreal. Why? Colleagues, we at the DPS have very good expertise on this subject. Our chairman has been in the CEC for many years, that's his education, that's what he worked for. I want to tell you that you do not need to hire or buy such machines. Such machines should be simply made. And if we agree with our colleagues from GERB, referring to the service, it is because there are really wonderful specialists and the capacity for this to happen. It's a question of market thinking whether we nail him to the law or use any other means. What's this about? First, what will we buy if we buy machines, as we have been offered before, at some fabulous prices? One box of hardware, nothing more. Because the software that we buy or hire to any machine should be done here. It is made separately for each type of choice, and for each subsequent choice is the new software, as well as its protection needs to be updated. So a touchscreen cost us a lot of money. I think about 300 euros are good screens, at this single price, and the corresponding device below it. The rest is software and software protection. There's nothing more than that. However you look at it, even with a generous payout to the people who will make the software, this will not come out more than 700 €800 per machine. 12,000 machines, with a few more thousand collateral, calculate them, so the question is somewhere in between. There must be, there must be, it must be secured, but these things must happen here, in the most economical and direct way possible. This concludes, I would like to ask Mr. Minister a question: how do you prefer to secure the CEC with money for making such machines: by changing this number now in the budget or by telling them how you will give them from the reserve and making this commitment? We know that the technique to have a reserve is a preferred technique for budgeting the current management. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Markov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! I lived to speak once in my life on the issue of the state budget. I have never done this, including in the Grand National Assembly, because I do not consider myself a budgeter, I am not competent enough. But since we opened the topic of electoral legislation and very pretentiously said what the Bulgarian citizens want, we came to our word. What two and a half million Bulgarian citizens want, and this is the big problem, is majority vote. The first bill that the Political Party GERB tabled, entering this National Assembly, was to fulfill the will of these people. You all and especially your parliamentary group did not accept. Now you're talking about early parliamentary elections. It is possible that there will be an early one, will there be a regular one, but the question is are we going to make elections under the electoral law for which only 500 thousand people from the Bulgarian voters voted?! When we had this debate, you, and it was your right, made a sensible proposal to seek a compromise, and here in this House, you made a commitment to all of us that you would submit a mixed electoral system law, you even said........................................................................ I then called and said: let's do the Bulgarian one, the one on which the Bulgarian voters voted 92% for the Grand National Assembly. My proposal is: fulfill the commitment, submit a mixed electoral system law and then we will talk about all the other things about electoral legislation. Thank you for your attention, but this is the voice of the people and the Lord's majority elections, not machine and other minor issues. Thank you for giving me the chance to say the same thing once under the Budget Act. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Any lines to Mr. Markov's statement? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the engine vote has been held here in this Chamber, and it has already passed. That's why I'm gonna limit myself. I don't see the point in talking about the machine vote. It is obvious that the National Assembly, together with you, the ruling majority at the moment, especially GERB, voted on this law. And that's a fact. How many years ago did you vote for the introduction of the engine vote? How much time did you give? Is it not enough to introduce the engine voting of both the CEC and the service and the State in general to be able to provide the necessary resources? What has changed since then from the vote on this change to now? The political situation has changed and GERB is obviously afraid of the middle of the elections by a machine that cannot be corrupted. I propose that this debate be put to an end with regard to the...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u43	I'd love to. Put it to the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u44	It is clear that it must be introduced and it is in law. You're minimizing it a few times. Now, here in the budget, if a budget is not provided for the introduction and purchase of these machines, which we have correctly understood by colleague Yordan Tsonev, will not be worth so much, but there is a problem with the software, which for these machines is different for each type of election and you should have provided it because you are managing the state from the introduction of the machine voting to the present time, the Council of Ministers, the CEC in particular...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u45	The CEC is yours, in your time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u46	No, it's not our CEC. The CEC is an independent body, please! So you've had plenty of time to fulfill the law that you've passed. You're not doing it at the moment. The answer is the one I told you about, why don't you do it? Why now, at the last minute through the budget and through amendments to the Election Code, where there are much bigger problems with electoral lists, with regard to the possibility of various manipulations of the election result, of the electoral process, you have decided precisely this kind of guarantor, namely the machine which, as I said, cannot be bribed or corrupted, to be removed and not introduced as an opportunity?! It remains an option because paper ballots remain, but an opportunity for every Bulgarian citizen to make sure that by choosing the party or list, his vote will be taken into account correctly, not later by the sectary election commission. Members know here we have witnessed what you have recently done in Galice and so on. That is why I call: stop the debate about the machine vote. Vote our proposal and let's move forward because you have passed this law with the engine vote. You've accepted it, and now you're trying to get out of it by practically not introducing the engine vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u47	Mr. Lazarov's line. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u48	Mrs. Chairman! There is no debate for a real........................................................................................................ Everyone in this room, including us, in the first code, we've done this. You're changing the subject. There's no debate like that. You want to raise the debate on purpose, and there is no debate about this first. Secondly, it's about providing machine voting hardware -... 13 500 machines. Mr. Tsonev said another 1000.. Put them 15 000 machines. Why did you decide that exactly 50 million needed to be bought? Perhaps you know at what price they will be purchased? Maybe you know who the suppliers are?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u49	That's it! Do you know them, colleagues? You know them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u50	Third, which I would like to address. What did the Prejudiceman say? You can provide the software. Dear colleagues, what does it mean to be responsible for these were the words to provide the software?! [[Heckling]] In Germany, the Constitutional Court called off the engine vote precisely because of doubt... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The machine vote for 10 years... Take and read the German Constitutional Court's Decision... precisely because of doubt that there may be manipulation in the software............................................................................................... You are now saying: "You, the government, make the software to accuse us then perhaps that we are manipulating the elections. May I remind you, colleagues, the Sliven affair in some local elections, when your representatives in Sliven were talking about how they would lose the election if they didn't change the software. Is that what you want now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u51	Plovdiv too!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u52	And to end it, since I'm making a line: why did you decide that it needed exactly 50 million? So you know at what cost a machine should be purchased. Maybe you could tell me who's gonna offer and which firm?! The truth is yes, there will be machine voting, but whether the CEC will assign or by law will assign to the CEC to develop or purchase the hardware and develop the software is another topic. Yeah, there's money there, and if you know the company that's gonna deliver the machines, say it, and let's not waste our time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u54	Dear colleague Lazarov, well you were the majority was, you bet on who would do this. It's in the Law, and if you don't get 50 million, come out and tell me how much! Come out and tell me how much! You bet on the Law who would design software, machines and everything. And it's written down. You were the majority, you bet it. And now you're telling me, "We knew." You bet it four years ago "2014." Four years ago you had the opportunity to fulfill what was laid out in the Law. You had it staked in the Law, and you didn't do anything. Now comes the time when the Law should be implemented because there has been a postponement in the Law of 2019 to enter the engine vote, but suddenly it is not working. What did you do for four years that you didn't understand?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hear the debate on the machine voting... it really has become a debate on the budget, but Mr. Tsvetanov, if you put Mr. Kirilov and those with a way of thinking of militiamen, to accuse colleagues of doubting that someone will steal money, then the debate will be very serious. Lay them down, lay them down, because what we are talking about right now is trying to secure those funds that are necessary to put in place a vote because we have adopted such a law. None of us know how much it's gonna cost, but the minister... where's he staying here... then how does the minister know it's $4 million, which is at stake? You've heard that we at the DPS have suggested that if our experts and specialists are involved in the budget, this 4 million may not be 54, but it still comes out about 4 million and 500,000. euros on what our colleague just told us. Colleagues, the idea is to provide those funds to make sure that there is no doubt about who will steal, but no doubt at the end of the electoral process. Well, that's what I'm talking about. That's what the debate is about. I was even glad that my colleague Markov would take part in the budget, but he didn't talk about it at all. I think it would be pointless from now on to continue this debate if we would continue to lean on and doubt. I don't want to suggest termination, but let's still be reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament, Dear Minister, whom I do not see! I'm surprised we've been arguing over 40 minutes about whether or not there should be a machine vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u59	Everyone has agreed that this is no longer a topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u60	It is, since everyone has agreed that this is not a topic, how exactly is this thing going to happen without money being provided? Because GERB always offers things that way. However, when it is to be fulfilled, it is not there. We submit resignations, but when we have to accept them, somehow these resignations evaporate. We're taking responsibility, but somehow half-responsibility. Mr. Tsvetanov, I have a direct question for you: Are you ready as chairman of the election headquarters of GERB to take GERB to elections with machine voting? Or can you make elections only with ballots, only with writing protocols and only with the case of Arena Armeec 2015?! Because you know in Arena Armeec what you did [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] For 15 hours, you kept the members of the SIC, the CEC, and the RIK, all inside to pass out, to die of hunger, of thirst...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u61	Mr. Svilensky, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u62	That's on the subject, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u63	It's not at all on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u64	If there were machines in 2015, the election process would end at 20.15 pm and Mr. Tsvetanov would not count the tenth victory of GERB, but would see the first loss then. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u65	Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I didn't mean to make a statement, but Mr. Svilensky wanted me to take a stand. Mr. Svilenski, the whole democratic Bulgarian community has not been forgotten about the case "Constinbrod" which you did in a way so that you can speak all night on Saturday on the day of reflection, on the day that you corrupted the electoral process to talk about a coup. Where were you then, Mr. Svilensky? Were you not part of this scenario by Maya Manolova, who is now the Ombudsman of the State? Where was Maya Manolova when she talked about everything that was happening in the country about the double bottoms of the vans? Where were those bottoms, Mr. Svilensky? It's all a scam, and it's the only way you can do it. To achieve some victory this is with false news. And you proved it in 2016 with the positions the then presidential candidate Mr. Radev held and what he spoke as a position he would take when he was already elected president. What did Mr. Radev say during his campaign for the presidential election, Mr. Svilenski? Were you talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u67	On the subject, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u68	What the theme is, then, is what Svilensky was talking about right now. The only thing I can tell Mr. Svilensky is that this will be his first loss, which he will suffer as chairman of the BSP election headquarters. [[Applause from GERB.]] It will also be another loss that you will suffer. Mr. Svilenski, when you are going to present a vision for Bulgaria, you present it to 10 people. [[Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When we meet our entrepreneurs from all over the country, the halls are crowded. Just a few days ago, we did charity work in Burgas. The good in Burgas. There were over 800 people in the opera. When you gather so many people at your event in time between the elections, then you can go out and talk. No one will give you that trust, Mr. Svilensky, even if you make any suggestions in public space, because you are incapable and no one will believe you to rule, because we know what remains after your rule. Let's get back to the subject of the budget, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u69	Second line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, six or seven years ago, by the way, I was a firm supporter of the engine vote. I've never been to the electronics, and I never will be. Because I'm good at prognosis... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you know why I changed my mind? Because we have other realities. We need to do this machine vote very carefully, because we have cyber attacks, we have a completely different situation. What I will predict, however, is that once the engine vote is in place, you will go out on this stand and blame the engine vote for your loss. I'm absolutely sure of that, and that's the big problem! The big problem of the Bulgarian elections is the low confidence in them, which is created by the various political forces they seek, especially those who lose, are looking for the reasons for their loss in the electoral process and not in themselves. That's the big problem. When confidence in the electoral process is low, that is where low confidence in institutions comes from. And here we should at least have some red lines in which to still keep this confidence in the elections, because it is fundamental to the whole democratic system. Once that trust is destroyed, if we use the engine vote in time to say that Mr. Tsvetanov faked the software, let's see where the ballots are now! And that's what you're gonna do, you have such potential. Then we will explain that the machines have not been touched, as you are now explaining how we touched in Galice. We touch everywhere. You make wonderful campaigns, you're perfect, and at some point you lose the election because we're bad. It's not a good logic for anyone! If we're going to do an engine vote, let's do it wisely. Not a fistful of olives, not emotionally speaking. It's a bad debate so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u71	Third line? Mr. Popov. [[Heckling]] Take it easy, guys! I watch, I watch. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u72	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Svilenski, this is where you were replicated, in your speech you said what the problems were. Do you know what the main problem is and what a bottom we have reached today thanks to GERB that here, in the plenary room of the National Assembly, we are discussing whether to comply with the law or not? This is the main problem of whether to implement the law or not, and they had plenty of time to be prepared to comply with the law. This is currently being debated in the plenary of a rule of law, claiming that there is rule of law in Bulgaria. This is the rule of the law of GERB in the Chamber to debate whether to comply with the law or not, whether to have money in the executive through the budget, in order to comply with the law which they have pledged not to comply with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Svilensky. Then Mr. Tsonev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, I've grown accustomed to the last two years in this Chamber not following the law. I have become accustomed in this House to breaking the law, not to obey the rules, to adopt laws of three readings, to adopt laws that have not been seen in committees, so it will not be a precedent and this thing will not comply with another law. Mr. Bikov, let me not answer your line, because after six years I don't know what your position will be. Six years ago, you claimed that Borisov should be elsewhere, not Prime Minister. I don't agree, but you said so. Then you changed your mind. I don't know what you'll think of the engine vote in six years. Mr. Tsvetanov, I asked you a question, you answered me about Maya Manolova. Take a look at Maya Manolova and find out who elected her Ombudsman! I asked you: Are you ready as chairman of the election headquarters to organise the work of your party so that you can win elections without manipulation, win them honestly by machine voting? You started talking to me about Kostinbrod and Maya Manolova. I gave you an example: Arena Is that true? It's true! Where is he, Narde Maya Manolova, Narde Hall Armeec?! We're talking about an engine vote. It would have been my first loss, but it could have been my first victory. It will not be mine, it will belong to the entire party that will stand behind these candidates. Don't plant any heavy stuff that's going to happen, because something else could happen. Again, you didn't answer the important thing: are you ready to make elections without manipulation? Even at the World Cup, the judge will say here, colleague Apostolov introduced a machine when the penalty cannot be seen, to say if the machine has a penalty or no penalty. But you're afraid of this thing! You're the only one who wants to make the rules. Well, that's not gonna happen! You can't do this anymore! The people don't want this thing. People want democracy. Mr. Markov here has been a leader of democracy for the past 30 years, and I hope he can change you as a party. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Tsonev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, but I will also make a procedural proposal at the end of the procedure. Ms. Karayancheva, as you have led so far, you have allowed the debate not to come out of the budget and the subject under discussion, but to begin essentially an election campaign here in the Chamber. And then you get angry when we say there's going to be early elections. Well, the presidents of the two election headquarters of the two largest parties have already started the election campaign. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u77	For the European elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u78	It's not for Europeans. That's the whole point. [[laughs, excitement]] That's for the early parliamentary elections! And that feeling of yours doesn't lie to you at all, to tell you the truth. [[Radio, laughter.]] There will be elections like this! Let's get back to the subject, discuss the budget, because we still have too much work on it, all the more so that it became clear what the positions on this point are. There will be a machine vote, it must be secured the purchase or making of the machines. My procedural proposal, which I ask you to put to the vote, is after Mr. Zarkov's statement, as he has already stated... [[Replys: There are others.]] Please, please! I heard who said what. I'm making a procedural motion to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Inverse opinion, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have made a statement and it is written by the President of the National Assembly Ms. Karayancheva you can check. If you are willing to lead the meeting by Mr. Tsonev, then please support his. However, I think that this debate should be exhausted and that all arguments should be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u81	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Yordan Tsonev. Vote 158 MPs: 100 against 55, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not abuse, and I will be very brief. I want to say two things, and they're all over the budget. It is perfectly normal for the debate to go to elections when we talk about the budget of the permanent electoral administration. Why did we make a proposal for a much bigger budget? It's not just the machines. There were no elections last year, there were only partials in some small places, and the CEC budget was 4 million. 380 thousand, of which the capital expenditures of 200 thousand, which tells us that there was already money for machines, supposedly. In the next 2019 we have two secure campaigns and one very likely. At the same time, the CEC budget is only increasing by about 400,000. BGN and capital costs remain at the same level as they were set for the previous year. It doesn't make any sense to this thing. It is obvious that the electoral process, which is due in 2019, is not secured. The machines ensure the integrity of the election process. We therefore place the emphasis on this issue, which we will also be discussing in the Legal Committee. Once again, to stress the effectiveness of the Bulgarian legislation, this law and these machines have been recorded in the legislation since 2014. Any arguments that it is not possible that there are any technical reasons are absolutely inadequate. And our dear Mr. Kirilov, a discussion this afternoon and tomorrow on your project will be meaningless if it is practically impossible, as the necessary funds are not laid down. Mr. Tsonev questioned not the principle, but the amount. To postpone, if you want the vote, to consider what amount we should be betting, but to make sure that the integrity of the electoral process is secured at least by the necessary means. If you allow me to rephrase an advertisement: to provide enough funds for the CEC plus-minus 50 million; to ensure the integrity of the election process is priceless. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zarkov, we have heard several times today from your parliamentary group how the vote in Bulgaria is being manipulated because there is no machine vote entirely or electronically or anything else. You are also saying that next year, apart from the regular elections to be held, there will probably be a third. I suggest there be a fourth vote then, if we're going to put in a full machine vote, because maybe the presidential vote was manipulated because it wasn't by machine vote. If we have to make fair and objective elections, then let us make four choices in Bulgaria next year for both President and Parliament and European Parliament and for local elections by machine voting, by e-voting. What if the presidential election was manipulated, then what do we do?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u85	Thank you. Line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u86	Mr. Zarkov, I will give you a reply only in the financial part, as I would still like to remind the House that we are looking at the State Budget Act, not the Election Code or the post-election Code or the election code. I have to tell you very responsibly that 50 million has been set aside and has them in the state budget in art. 1 in the Central Budget. Such is the chosen technique to finance these capital costs when they need to be spent, this money, after orders, after all purchase procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u87	Say that thing again!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u88	That's what I'm saying. 50 million. lv. are intended. They are located as a feather in the central budget and will be directed for payment when we have conditions for payment. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u89	An hour of debate! Why didn't you say so earlier?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u90	Third line, please come in for a third line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't see the Minister. Dear Mr. Zarkov, the process of budgeting is accurate when it specifies the exact amounts and objectives for which they will be spent. Since yesterday in the National Assembly we have seen a very interesting way of debating, a very interesting way of budgeting and I will ask for your comment on it. That the amounts that are expressed are recorded somewhere in the general part of the budget, in the so-called art. 1 And they come out only when public discontent arise to them, when they are asked about them. This is the way in art. 1 amounts are bet, which are then spent without the sanction of the National Assembly, even by such a transparent procedure as should be the elections in the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm waiting for your comment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u92	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Before I give the floor to Mr. Zarkov, a message. Dear colleagues, a guest of parliament today is Mrs. Nava Boker, Vice-President of Israel's Knesset, who is visiting the country. Please welcome her to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[All rise and applaud the guests.]] You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the replicators, too. Dear Mr. Angelov, by the way, in 2016 the presidential elections are the elections in which the most used machine voting was based on the CEC reference that we were offered, first. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Secondly, when the result is two million per million, how much can there be manipulation?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you say 50 million are set aside and they are in art. This is important information and thank you for it. This is the second such misunderstanding with this budget after what happened yesterday, when 70 million turned out to be there, and no one saw them. What I wanted to duplicate is another, dear Madam President of the Budget Committee. You say that this money has been set aside and you will give it if there are conditions for purchase, but the MPs of your group at the same time are putting in place a law to limit machine voting, and very seriously. That is, with one hand you say: we have supposedly money, they are not where they should be, but there are them if you have to, and with the other hand you do so that you never have to. Dear Mr Nedyalkov, the only thing I can do is agree with you and remind you once again that the budget is not transparent enough and therefore there is a reason. The reason is that there is no real politics behind it, and what they want to do, I think they don't know either. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. That concludes the debate and we move on to a vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 179 MPs: for 71, against 89, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 43, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 181 MPs: 109, against 70, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am against the budget of the CEC because it does not provide funds for the Central Election Commission to secure a machine vote for the next elections. There is no more accurate reading of the election result and you can check in many of the countries with developed democracies that we aim for. You do not provide funds to implement the Law and to purchase voting machines during elections. Why? You don't predict the elimination of the human factor. You don't want technology readings! Double detection of the result once, the machine on which is voted, and once on a carrier that can be counted. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, let me remind you that you are eliminating the human factor in implementing control of the Road Traffic Act. You take away the possibility for people working at the DMV to carry out this control, to impose sanctions by introducing electronic readings through cameras. In fact, this will eliminate the possibility of a person being able to be pressured, manipulated, blackmailed. That's obviously what you can do! I guess that's what you want! The election result will therefore be questioned in the absence of machine voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u96	Thank you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u97	Art. 1 (1) (a) Article 44 47 by importer there are no offers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for those Articles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I would like to take a very brief approach to art. 44 for the budget of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................... Last year it was 9 million, and I think it was the year before last. Now they've recorded $16 million. We are recording a large amount of money - unfortunately, it is not being spent as intended. A week ago in Zagreb, Commissioner Phil Hogan said that the new common agricultural policy should reduce administrative capacity, the administrative burden, i.e. for a building fund, I guess there will be no new construction. Or perhaps these funds are used here as a hidden reserve if they become some force majeure circumstances, as they were this year with the rose producers who wanted the funds under the Minimis. I don't see the Minister again. In vain, when we accepted the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture late last night, I once again asked the Minister of Agriculture for the opinion and said that politics was wrong. I mean, it's missing. It is better to say: we spend money on beekeepers, for vegetable producers, and not like this, somehow through capital expenditure we have a hidden reserve and if we have to transfer it later on via the Minimis. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u100	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. Article 44 47 including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 137 MPs: 97, against 38, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u101	Under art. 48 there is a proposal of the MP Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 48, t. 1 and 2 of the table, the following changes shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1. Bulgarian national radio is increasing by 5000 thousand. lv. the number ss 44 294,0ss is replaced by s49 294,0s; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. Bulgarian national television amount increased by 5000 thousand. lv. The number "67 730,0" is replaced by "72 730,0" is replaced by "72 730,0" is replaced by "67 730,0" is replaced by "72 730,0" is replaced by "the number "67 730,0" is replaced by "72 730,0" is replaced by "the number "the number" is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? Mr. Simov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are making a proposal that we made last year, and this is the budgets of BNT and BNR to be increased by 5 million. lv. Of course, the motivation of this proposal can be infinitely long or infinitely short. That is why I will be pleased to put only one accent in our proposal. I see that here as an alarming note, especially in the rhetoric of GERB recently passes the anxiety of the false news, the danger and degradation they are subjected to, it is my opinion that with well-funded public media, the danger of false news will at least be reduced, as in the case of well-functioning public media [[a line from MP Desislava Atanasova]] Mrs. Atanasova, I'm waiting for you to support this proposal. When we have well-functioning public media, false news won't be that much of a problem, because we'll have a normal corrective in journalism. I will look at your voice and hope to receive at least your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. - What's the line? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simov, it is good that you will observe how I will vote for this proposal, but it seems quite cynical to me that a journalist like you and perhaps other journalists from your parliamentary group will approach the false news that is being distributed by yourself. You, Mr. Simov, as well as the other colleagues, how do you evaluate whether a single news story is false, or is it true? I'd like to hear from you in the back of my head. I know there are many other colleagues who have suffered false news. Their spread is a wicked practice that we all have to fight. There are already ideas on how to do this, probably not through the Law on the Budget of the State and not with the proposal that you are making, but through another proposal that I think will unite people who hold the truth, for example in the Law on Electronic Communications, which Mr Rashidov, as Chairman of the Media Commission, has been talking about for two days now, and this is the serious debate. I hope that in such a serious debate competent and expert you will defend the thesis of the truth because I appreciate your opinion that the lie's legs are short, no matter who orders it, and together we will oppose false news. Thanks for the opportunity for a line. I hope I'll be interested in listening to the back of my head. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Second line? You have the floor, Sir Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Simov, I allow you to know that the problem with false news is not just that a site can write that the news is fake. The problem is that then the circulation by people who can't write that their news is false, because it's from this room that you, using sites that write that it's false news, have spread even more false what you read, and it's from the stands of the National Assembly. The site is one thing, but this place is a very sacred place. So fighting fake news is not a battle with money. As my father used to say, with money anyone can give without money to fight against it. Not because I'm not defending the budget for culture and the media, but one has nothing to do with the other. Because, look, tomorrow's gonna be a problem for you, too. All together we must fight against the false news as you use it as a weapon today against GERB, tomorrow and against you will be used. So the money I don't know if it'll do this job, it's better to just talk about money and a budget for the media than to give bad examples. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Third line. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! You are right, Mr. Rashidov, that not everything is determined only by money and that false news is not determined only by the money received by the media. I would like to recall a fact that colleagues on the left forget and have a helpful short memory. Just to remind you when the budget of the Bulgarian National Television was reduced exactly 2013 and to say why it was reduced because colleagues on the left know very well the saying about the carrot and the stick. Then they pulled out the stick because National Television was covering the protests that were in front of this building. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, I'll start backwards. I feel like we're living in an essay by Georgi Markov, which describes how in the same literary editing, in two different years, he sees the same conversation. That's the line you made last year when we suggested the same thing. Then I explained something to you again that you were knocking on the wrong door with that accusation. Even then, I wrote several articles that I am against reducing the budget of the Bulgarian National Television because I think journalism should stay away from such political dramas. I have no reason to change my mind, and I keep telling you the same thing. I have not been the person who has determined this decision and I continue to believe that the financing of Bulgarian national television and Bulgarian national radio by better means shows and gives a very clear attitude towards the public media in Bulgaria, because it will be very difficult to put the border on which news is fake and which is not, which website to stop and who is not. The only real countering the epidemic of false news is the creation of successful, quality, good journalism, and this is done with better funding. I'm sorry, but everything else brings us into a very unpleasant and annoying debate about who makes fake news, who produces them, who throws it at them and who doesn't. Finally, I just want to say one thing. Yes, you may be dissatisfied with the fact that a signal is on the media's signal. The problem is that this law you voted for yourself. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For me, this point is very important because it leads us to a very serious problem of our society, part of which is, as far as I understand it right now, which we are preparing to accept, I would even say that it is illegal, because in the Radio and Television Act more than 10 years ago, I think this is from 2006, the so-called "Radio and TV" Fund enters. This fund there is written down how it should be raised and how it should gradually begin to pay those amounts that we are currently voting on. Under this law of 1 January 2019, i.e. from the moment when these amounts are due to enter into force here, they should already be taken over entirely, a hundred per cent of the Fund of Radio and TV. For more than 12 years, not a single government of BSP or GERB has dared to put into effect the Fund of Radio and TV. It currently exists in the Law, but there is no board of directors, it does not raise funds and, respectively, does not spend money. What is the problem in the fact that the financing of public so-called "media" is what I say is called "the same," because in fact this is the problem that while they are financed directly by the state and while every year the directors of the media have to go to kneel before the Finance Minister or the Prime Minister, in order to write in the column with five thousand more or less respectively, while this is happening, they are not public, but in practice they are state media because they are governed by the State, because their budgets and their funding directly depends on which government, what they will ask for and what they will give him. This is the big problem of public media in Bulgaria at the moment. Another question is that we have an even bigger problem and it is the problem of the public function of the media, because, hopefully, all those who deal with the media will agree with me, a public function has not only public media, they have all the media. I would like to dream of it when this fund works one day, because I hope that we will not cancel it, and someone will finally dare to create it, to move it and to realize what has been laid down more than ten years ago in the Law. When it works, it should take care not only of public media, but of a part of funding for public functions and private media, because otherwise there is nothing to create these public functions, if it is not the public assistance, it is not about coercion, but about assistance and motivation through the funds. Returning to what we are talking about now, specifically in these texts, we will accept them, but once again we will reject the actual functioning of public media. By the way, in our law with the Fund of Radio and TV, the English version under which the BBC is financed, i.e. through fees, is placed. It is because of the fees that no one dares to move it, because it must in a way impose new charges on citizens. However, whether we are going to do it through fees, whether we are going to fill this fund in another way, I think that to all of us as legislators at the moment, whichever government is in power and whose majority is going to be, we need to get to the clear awareness that the public function of the media, especially the public media, is extremely important and that we must somehow give our share and contribution to ensuring it. Mr. Rashidov, I'm addressing you specifically because you are the chairman of the Media Committee. It's important, and it's something that we all have to work out and do. This is something that should not be passed and transferred from one government to the other. We must develop mechanisms that will be sustainable and guarantee our society in this regard. With these texts that we are going to vote on now, we are doing nothing but breaking the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mrs. Nikolova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mean, unlike some who don't remember what they were doing when they were able to make a decision, and that someone wrote two or three essays didn't help the National Television budget, nor did they increase wages, nor did they manage to buy equipment with them, but I also voted in 2013. I will vote against this thing when BSP reduces the budget, and I voted against it last year, and I will vote against it this year, as opposed to your other colleagues, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, I respect the personal opinion of the voters and that sometimes they vote contrary to what their parliamentary group does, but just to remind you that some of the biggest reports to reduce the budget of the public media, including the Bulgarian national television, are not going to advertise to them as names of the owners of private television stations that have representatives in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u118	Thank you. Another line? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u119	Mrs. Nikolova, we in this room seem to be talking without listening, because somehow from your statement, it's as if I hadn't done the previous one. In my previous speech, I tried to explain to you, not to you specifically, of course, but to the House and to the citizens, that the impact on public media and all media can be done both by stopping money and by giving money. I apologize, but you and I are MPs, and as MPs we should have the height of thought of MPs, not simplify things until a neighborhood conversation. Because to claim that the reduction controls the media, and as the increase does not, it is a level of a neighborhood pub is neither journalistic nor parliamentary. Please rise higher, sit in the chair where you sit, a little more upright, so you can have a higher view of things.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Mr. Rashidov, Mrs. Nikolova's line, right? Okay, hold on, please, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Nikolova, look, it's not just... Clearly, funding should be there, but only when we are very serious about informing public media and the media environment. I'll just ask my colleagues: can we have public media in six million countries, there are several of them, with one Director-General, with three Deputy Directors and seven journalists sitting in the Council of Ministers for one piece of news? We're talking about funding now. And on top of that, we mixed up the fake news that had nothing to do with the subject. I think it is time to think very seriously about public media, what reform to be made in them. It's been a long time since anything's been done there. Of course, they're important. I have very often asked the question either public media and television are a commercial company, or are public media funded with a budget. There's a lot of questions. Or are all these media public when they are very easily financed from the outside and perform other functions?! I can give examples, but it's not the place today or here. We're talking about money. We're probably gonna need to think about public media budgets, but since... I will do my best as President of the Commission for a very broad debate, as we have done, and a debate with all media on the rules and the future of public media. Only after reform can we talk only about increasing money, because money does not always serve society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I completely agree with you, Mr. Rashidov. I didn't speak any different from the stand. Mr. Kutev, I've raised my head enough. I know where I am, but it's nice of you to remember where you are, what you did and how you voted a few years ago. There are enough archives here in this building to make it clear who expressed what opinion and how they voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, it would be interesting for people who have worked in the media and are not members, for example, of the Committee on Culture and Media, to attend at least one meeting and to see. I have noted the Commission's good work yesterday, today I will repeat it and I will always say it, but there, in the Commission, the people we are talking about are coming. I very much hope that we will hear them when we decide to do something that is really necessary, namely to think about a serious debate, a broad discussion about public media and their functioning. In general, Mrs. Nikolova said she would not support our proposal and said that she voted against it three times, the third time will be today. This is actually what you say you shouldn't do about cutting the money for public media. In the Commission, I and my colleagues were under the impression that the directors were unhappy. I'll give you an example, because there was also talk of false news here. BTA at the moment, not that it blooms and overflows with funds, but it can cover its activities and it appears, we've said it before, as an oasis of lack of false news. That is why it is nice when we talk about media, first this debate to take place, they themselves have such a desire for public media. Yes, all media have a social character, but we have public ones. I would love that to happen, but somehow it seems dangerous, and I want to stress it, if it is not well regulated enough, all of this goes into one structure. I'm talking about the public media. It's dangerous, and you can think of why. I'd love to hear them first. The issue is extremely serious and I thank you that the Commission has already hinted at such a debate and that Mr Rashidov supports it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there lines? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Chenchev, honourable colleagues! To you and at all to the pathos of your parliamentary group. We also brought in the fake news here, and in fact, we need a larger increase in the public media budget. There's certainly not funding in this sector as well. We talked here all day yesterday about increasing both pensions and salaries and everything, because your proposals are related to increasing all costs. However, we must not create the illusion that greater funding will solve the issue of false news. I don't think that's even a media question. It's a matter of national security. Because false news is made purposefully, they aim to create chaos, anxiety among citizens, in certain situations to provoke tension. This issue is very serious, it is not likely for this debate either, but this debate must be held both within the framework of national security and within the media. The public media, in my opinion, with all criticisms of them, are fulfilling their commitment and are even one of the places where we can talk about true freedom of speech. We, as rulers, feel it on our backs often. Here once again, because I know that colleagues from BNR enjoy such things, I will say that BNR is one of the most critical media in terms of governance, although it receives its funding from the budget, which shows that there is no political interference there. But false news will not fight more funding for public media. There may be greater funding for public media to better finance public media. But automatically that won't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Yes, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Nedyalkov, for a third line. The second is Mrs. Nikolova's.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the truth is born in the dispute. I only wanted to explain to Mr. Chenchev that I voted against in 2013 to reduce the budget. Last year, I supported Mr. Simov for an increase, as I will now vote against the reduction adopted by the Commission, which I meant, not to reduce the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. Third line. You have the floor, Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Chenchev! My question to you is dictated by the following: don't you think that really national media, public media that need more funding, I open up a clamp of these media are institutes, they have a wealth of funds, they also support some of the most interesting ones and I would say with the greatest authority compositions that there are, whether they should be financed right now and this funding should be provided for with the adoption of the budget. I am glad that other people will also support our proposal to increase their budget, because it should not happen that, once again, when musicians or others go out to protest, they should re-open art. 1, which turned out to be a very broad member of our budget, with very large opportunities. Since there have been personal explanations here, I would like to say from the National Assembly's stands that I, as a journalist, am extremely grateful for the position of the national media on a case since 1999, when all the strictness of the state fell on me, and if it had not been for the Bulgarian National Radio, Mr. Bikov, since then I would not have had the support of the other journalists in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u132	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Hole, Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Bikov! I am glad that you agree with me and that we are registering this underfinancing. It is for this reason that you have time to think. You've heard the debate, support our proposal. The same is my address to Mrs. Nikolova. Since it is not only for the public, at all for the media in general, let it also support our proposal. You all know, there is no doubt in this House that public media are underfunded. There's no doubt about it. As far as my colleague's reply is concerned, I will say so: he is absolutely right, I agree with everything, but we must add that in this money, which is now provided according to your proposals, it is not at all a matter of not only good storage, but also the categorization of the archive of Bulgarian national television to say. A problem that is extremely serious and has not been posed. But for money there, because you really need to think very seriously, it is history, it is a golden archive of the Bulgarian state and it is crumbling right now. I think we should really take these things seriously because we're losing a lot of our memory that way. That is why we have made the proposals in this spirit. Therefore, if I use the rhetoric of a colleague earlier in the day, although I will be careful about the construction, I have to tell you that this way by not financing them, I am afraid that we are putting them under, as my colleague said. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. They voted 134 MPs: for 31, against 78, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 48. They voted 130 MPs: 98, against 31, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u135	Under art. 49 has a proposal of the MP Julian Angelov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made Accepts subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2019 as follows: 1.1 of row I. the number 12 373,0 is replaced by the number 12 393,0 (+ 20,0); 1.2. is created row 32 "Bulgarian association of the families from Macedonia", the number 20.0. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 and para. 2 the following changes are made: - in para. 1 row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in para. 1 Section II row 2 is replaced by the number - in para. 1 Section II row 3 the number s "145 000,0 " is replaced by the number "sixteen thousand,0" is replaced by the number "sixteen thousand,0" is replaced by "sixteen thousand,0" is replaced by "sixteen thousand,0" is - in line "Everything's going to be replaced by the number - in para. Section II. the number 380 0000,0 is replaced by 404 0000,0; - in para. Section II row 2 is replaced by the number..120 - in para. Section II row 3 is replaced by the number - in line "Everything" the number "381,000,0" is replaced by the number "405 000,0". The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u136	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. They voted 127 MPs: 18, against 31, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. They voted 123 MPs: 9 against 81, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 49, supported by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 97 against 27, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u137	Under art. 50 has a proposal of the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section Lovech: 1. in row Apriltsi, the number 2. in row Troyan, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section Lovech: - in row Ugurchin, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section Lovech: - in row Yablanitsa, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, in the section of Gabrovo District, in the row Sevliev the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section District Shumen: 1. of the row Shumen, the number south 1 339,9 "in column 6" is replaced by supposed for the completion of the summer theater "supposed" with sound, municipal property "3 million." lv., construction of a park in sq. Grivitsa terrain 32 decares of municipal property/covered swimming pool, sports and playgrounds, bikes/ 4 million. BGN, underground parking in the central part of Shumen and complete the tunnel to the parking lot for 250 cars 2 million. lv. and the repair of streets in 28 villages in Shumen Municipality. 5 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. in line Novi Pazar, the number lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. in line Kaspichan, the number Five hundred thousand. and repair of streets and sidewalks 4 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. of the order Veliki Preslav the number lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • In column 6, column 6 shall be replaced by column 1 305,5 for the construction of a new medical centre. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. on the line Venets the number lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7. of row Kaolino the number BGN, renovation and reconstruction of the park and square in the village of Todor Ikonomovo, 900 thousand. BGN, construction of a sewer network and reconstruction of the water supply in the village of Todor Ikonomovo. lv. and building a building for solemn events.. 600 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8. of the row Nikola Kozlevo the number lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section Vratsa: 1. in row Krivodol, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments are made to Section District Vidin: 1. in row Belogradchik, the number 2. the number of battlenitsa in column 6 is replaced by 3. on the line The number of the coast in column 6 is replaced by the number of the coasts in column 6 is replaced by the number of the coasts. In column 5, the number 56.0 is replaced by the number In column 4, the number in column 3, the number..4141,5. is replaced by the 4. in row Vidin, the number s. 1 158,1s. in column 6 is replaced by s.1 273,91s. 5. in row Gramada, the number "six-two-two-two' is replaced by 6. on the line of the Dim number 7. of line Tower the number 8. in row McCresh, the number 9. in row Novo selo, the number 10. in row Ruzhintsi, the number 11. of line Chuprene the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Zheleva: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table in section Pazardzhik District, the following amendments are made: 1. of row Strelcha in column 6 the number The increase is for rehabilitation of the municipal road III-8003 Blatnitsa "Smilets" from 23+764 to km 38+700. 2. in row Pazardzhik in column 6, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table in section Stara Zagora, the following amendments are made: 1. of row Galabovo in column 4 shall be placed the number 2. of row Nikolaevo the number 3. in row Chirpan, the number s. 10 564.1s. in column 3 is replaced by.11 621,1s. and the number s..143,4s. in column 5 is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments are made in the section of Sofia District: 1. in line Botevgrad, the number 2. of row Gorna Raspberry the number 3. in row Elin Pelin, the number 4. in row Zlatitsa, the number 5. in line Koprivshtitsa, the number 6. of row Kostenets the number 7. in row Pirdop, the number s. in column 4 is replaced by s.450,0, the number s..68,2s. in column 5 is replaced by.80,0s. and the number s.161,6s. in column 6 is replaced by s.170,0s. 8. in row Pravets, the number 9. in line Samokov, the number s. in column 4 is replaced by s. 1 100,0, the number s. in column 5 is replaced by s.250,0s. and the number s. 940,3s. in column 6 is replaced by s. 1 000,0s. 10. on line Chavdar the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and group of representatives: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, for Ruse District, the amounts in column 6 for target capital subsidy to be increased by means of repair and rehabilitation of municipal roads as follows: - Row 1 "Borovo" the figure "290.6" to become "300.0"; - Row 2 "White" the figure "White" "White" is to become "423."4 "White" is to become "White" and "White" is to be "White" and "White" is to be - Row 3 - Row 4 "Two mounds" the figure "454,1" to become "465,0" - Row 5 "St. Ivanovo" to the figure "St. 585,2" to become "6600,"0 "St. Ivanovo"; - Row 6 - Row 7 "Slutty field" "Slutty field" to the figure "425,4" to become "436,0" - Row 8 "Price" "Credit" the figure "325," 1 "to become "335," 1 "Credit," 1 "Credit" the figure "Credit" the figure "Credit" the figure "Credit" the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Veska Marinova Nencheva: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made in section Plovdiv: 1. of the row Karlovo the number "spare 1 158,2" in column 6 is replaced by spare 2 821,8. The funds are for: 1. Town of Kalofer: repair of road from the end of the city to bridge of Byala Reka with length 7000 m, width 6 m, value 1 260 000 BGN. 2. City of Banya: repair of children's playground of the Children's Garden Faith, hope and love, replacement of the floor, value 40 000 BGN. 3. The town of Klisura: on the occasion of 140 years of the Liberation of Bulgaria - repair, cleaning and storage of the monument 4. Village of Rozino: construction of a sports playground, worth 70 000 BGN 5. Village of Bogdan: repair of derivatives on 1st street, length 900 m, width 6 m, value 50 000 BGN. 6. Village of Begunitsi: repair of Str. 4th, length 200 m, width 6 m, value 80 000 BGN. 7. Village of Vasil Levski: repair of Str. 46th, length 300 m, width 6 m, value 50 000 lv. 8. Village of Veldrare: construction of a sports playground (soccer field with artificial grass), worth 60 000 BGN. 9. Village of Voynyagovo: repair and renewal of sports terrain: tribunes, seats - 60 000 BGN, repair of changing rooms - 8 000 BGN, 2 units of water heaters - 800 BGN, completion of fence with network - 15 000 BGN, watering PVC pipes, 300 m hoses, 2 units sprayed 10. Village of Gorni Domlyan: repair of Str. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Genkov. -1, length 22 m, width 5 m, value 53 000 лв.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u138	Mrs. Stoyanova, is it necessary to read all of these are explanatory notes to the change of order Karlovo? You have given the change that is offered for order Karlovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u139	These are the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, and I think that just as they are written, they should be read in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u140	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u141	"11." Village of Domlyan: repair of Str. 4th, length 200 m, width 5 m, value 40,000 lv. 12. Village of Dubene: repair of Str. 2nd, length 1,000 m, width 8 m, axis point 106 to axis point 94, value 64 000 BGN. 13. Village of Iganovo: repair of Str. 2nd, length 260 m, width 5 m, value 60 000 lv. 14. Village of Karavelovo: repair of Str. Vladimir Lenin, length 1000 m, length 6 m, value 80 000 BGN. 15. Village of Kliment: repair of Str. 13th, from axial point 9 to axial point 83, length 460 m, width 6 m, value 77 000 BGN. 16. village of Kurtovo: repair of Str. 8th, length 800 m, width 6 m, value 35 000 BGN. 17. village of Kurnare: repair of Str. 17th, length 150 m, width 6 m, value 60 000 BGN. 18. Village of Moskovets: repair of Str. 7th, length 150 m, width 6 m, value 30 000 lv. 19. Village of Plovdiv: repair of Str. 3rd, length 160, width 6 m and str. 15th, length 180 m, width 6m, value 50 000 lv. 20. Village of Prolom: repair of a Chitalishte building of National Chitalishte "Science" worth 60 000 BGN. 21. Village of Slatina: repair of Str. 10th, length 100 m, width 6 m, value 60 000 BGN. 22. Village of Sokolitsa: repair of Str. 13th, length 400 m, width 6 m, value 70 000 lv. 23. Village of Hristo Danovo: repair of Str. 2nd, length 800 m, width 6 m, value 70 000 lv. 24. Village of Mrachenik: repair of a club building, worth 15 000 BGN 25. Kv. Susica: repair of the building of the pool, worth 30 000 leva. 2. In line Hisar, the number The increase is for: Village of Mihiltsi: repair of part of Str. 2nd, from axial point 96 to axial point 107, length 353 m, value 69 600 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to section Smolyan: 1. the number of Baths in column 6 shall be replaced by the number of the municipal roads and streets in the towns of Davidkovo, Galabovo, Banite, Dryanka, Oryahovets, Malka Arda, Vishnevo, Bosilkovo and others. 2. of line Borino the number 3. of row Devin the number - One million. lv. for the crossroad Trigrad, Chestnut; - Five hundred thousand. lv. for the long-distance road Michalkovo "Shurrekovo; - Five hundred thousand. lv. for capital expenditure for the MHAL "Devin" EAD. 4. of line Dospat the number 5. of the row Zlatograd, the number of the number of the city of Zlatograd in column 6 is replaced by the number of the building of the geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd. lv. 6. of line Madan the number 7. of row Nedelino the number - 1.5 million. lv. on the completion of the intercommunal road at the end of the border; - Two million. lv. for municipal roads and streets; 8. of the row Rudozem the number "synchronous" in column 6 is replaced by "synchronous" for the municipal roads in Rudozem, Elhovets, Vitina, Polyana 9. of line Smolyan the number - Five million. lv. for streets and municipal roads in the towns of Smolyan, - One million. lv. for the construction of a shelter for homeless dogs; - Four million. lv. on the completion of the streets in the town of Smolyan Asen Vassilev............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 10. in row Chepelare, the number of the number of the city in column 6 is replaced by the number of the streets and municipal roads in the villages of Pavelsko, Zornitsa, Hvoyna, Malevo and Orehovo. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs: "XiII." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made in the introductory phrase: 1. The number..3 234 390,2..3 294 2. The number..294 022.0..316 3. The number s.38 228.1 is replaced by s.41 228.1s. 4. The number "179 110.2" is replaced by "284 110.2" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Asenov Tishev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments are made in section Burgas: On the row Burgas, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 digits 3 234 390,2 is replaced by 3 235 536,8 (+1 146,6). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva and a group of MPs: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, in section Veliko Tarnovo District, column 6, the following changes are made: "1." The municipality of Pavlikeni is replaced by 4 236,4............................................................................................ Motives: The design route of the ring road crosses the AM.Hemus.It is appropriate that this section of route III-3 be connected precisely in the area of their intersection. 2. The municipality of - 1 341.0 for reconstruction and rehabilitation of part of the street network in the city. Suhindole; - 4 853,1 "Rehabilitation of water pipelines in settlements by the municipality; - 1200,0 for the renovation of administrative buildings of kindergarten and nursery; - 960.0 for rehabilitation of the water supply of the village of Byala Reka. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I am announcing a 30-minute suspension of the National Assembly's work before we proceed with the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u143	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We're continuing the meeting. It's 12:00. The sitting shall continue with a discussion in art. 50 of the Budget Act. Mr. Nedyalkov, before the break you said you wanted to speak. Mr. Ivanov is after him. I note those who wish, there will be many speeches. Here you are, Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I come up with the proposals that I have made in addition to art. 50 of the State Budget Act These are three proposals on the territory of Loveska region. Before that, I would like to say that there has been a lasting trend in the area over the last few years for the absence of an increase in both the matching subsidy and the capital subsidy of the municipalities in Lovech region. This trend is particularly noticeable, for example, for one of the good municipalities in our territory, such as the municipality of Troyan, which has not received a satisfactory explanation from the Ministry of Finance, why there has been no increase in this part of state funding for several years. Therefore, Valentina Alexandrova and I are proposing this year in the territory of the municipality of Troyan to start financing the completion of the third new cell of the Regional landfill for solid municipal waste, which serves besides the territory of the municipality of Troyan, as well as the municipality of Apriltsi. We have divided the subsidy for capital expenditure, both to Troyan Municipality and to the municipality of Apriltsi. Let it be known that soon the depot will be filled and the need to build a third cell is extremely necessary. The second proposal, which I have made, is to raise the capital costs of the municipality of Jablanica, which also suffers from a deficit of both a matching subsidy and a subsidy for capital expenditure. This is for the reconstruction of a rural school in the village of Brestnitsa, the project for which it is ready. The entire draft documentation has been made and I think that in a living village, such as the village of Brestnitsa, the building of the school should be renovated. The last warning is again for the school, and it is just as Brestnitsa says................................................................................. This is for the completion of a reconstruction of a school in the village of Kirchevo. The reconstruction began as early as 2001 and so unfinished, and there the teacher's collective is a very combat collective. The children are ready to continue their education, the municipality should be supported by only 200,000. BGN to complete the repair of the school. I believe you will support these proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u145	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is surprising that today, when we are discussing precisely this important moment, namely the financing of municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, there is not a single representative of the Council of Ministers. To make a prelude to my speech, my suggestions. You know, honourable Members, and I reminded you yesterday that we made a proposal in the Public Finance Act, in which this scheme of granting funds to municipalities goes through the National Assembly, through the body that determines the costs of the state, the body that accepts the state budget. We have proposed to stop this vicious practice in which the Prime Minister, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, gives money to municipalities and only to its municipalities. It is for this reason that, not only myself today, but also my colleagues, we have made our proposals for municipalities in our fields, for specific sites that are necessary and extremely important for local infrastructure and for improving the quality of life of citizens and residents in these large and small settlements. Shumen District does not make its exception. Let me remind you that last year, with a decision by the Council of Ministers, funds were granted in the area, and much more, again, I say, vague criteria. You don't know who or when to apply, you don't know who to apply with. One morning the Prime Minister wakes up and decides that this money should be given. I have taken the trouble, honourable Members, to talk to the citizens of these municipalities and to understand what their specific needs are, what they need to be improved in their locality so that they can have a normal life, and that they can be funds that are guaranteed in the State Budget Act. I am extremely surprised why the Commission does not support such proposals, why are the MPs representing their regions unable to defend the interests of their citizens? For example, for the city of Shumen, specifically for the town of Shumen, I suggest that funds be allocated to complete the Summer Theatre, complete the construction of the park in the Grivica district, where the municipality is now trying to give it away, to like it to a private owner, to a gentleman who will make an unknown facility, with an unknown need and who will use it, and at the same time I want here on behalf of his citizens to give specific funds to this park to be made and used by citizens. It's a free military property that's really perfect for a park, and there's no such park in this area. I have recorded that funds should be allocated for sports playgrounds, for bikes, underground parking in the central part of Shumen, finishing a tunnel, repairing streets in 28 villages, because the mayor of Shumen Municipality, who is from GERB, obviously does not care. He has been mayor of Shumen Municipality for three years and has not allocated any funds to the villages in Shumen municipality. Now is the time to be supported here so that these villages can be renovated infrastructure. For Novi Pazar also: to give 3 million leva to repair streets and sidewalks, because after the management of the mayor of GERB there is like a drop bomb from war. It's been a water cycle, and there's no one to pave the streets, and people are breaking their cars. After all, the National Assembly is the authority that can do this thing. In Kaspichan, to release money for reconstruction of the plumbing network. Do not go to paradoxes where the water supply goes to collect funds from the public's pocket so that they can repair the plumbing. He's insanity, and that's why he's at the D.A.'s office right now. In Veliki Preslav, the replacement of an existing plumbing with the construction of a united water pipeline in several villages, which have been waiting for years to release money and are constantly on a water regime. Dragoevo, Novano, Mikre, Drya Reka, for Smyadovo, for the construction of a medical center in Zevenea, for the construction of a playground in Yasenko, for Kaolinovo, for the major repair of streets in settlements, for Nikola Kozlevo, for the construction of a stadium where there is no one in the village of Wavalare, although the mayor is yours. You see, we at BSP don't separate citizens from which political power the mayor is elected from. It is important for these people to be given the opportunity to lead a normal life, and in a manner and order that is established by the law........................................................................................... Today is the time to change this practice. I therefore urge you, Members of the National Assembly, to vote, to support these proposals, because, once again, they come out of the citizens and come out of those who are your constituents, both ours and everyone here in this Chamber, and they have specific needs. They are noted in these proposals. Not to drive in a row that will last for years, for years and many, dozens of citizens will be harmed. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I ask the MPs to take their seats! It's hard to talk from the stands. I beg you very much to be quiet in this room. Are there any lines? I won't. Any further comments? There are three or four, five or more. You'll all have a chance to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! Unfortunately, I must repeat the words of my colleague on the left, who just said about a serious problem which concerns the way the funds are distributed to the Bulgarian taxpayers. Unfortunately, in recent years, artificial practice has been reinforced to deliberately reduce the revenue of the budget so that absolutely opaque to Bulgarian citizens can spend their funds. Absolutely subjective to the approach in the way they are distributed in the designated municipalities and settlements. What, of course, is presented to us during the year Borisov to draw money from his pocket for people with disabilities, and promises of a kind: a stadium for 100 million. BGN, of course, is not in European practice and this as a national representation we must change it. My questions are related, for example, to funds that are necessary for infrastructure, for the water network, a water network, and, of course, mostly to renovation in the Veliko Tarnovo region of Pavlikeni and Suhindol. On purpose the list is very modest because in Veliko Tarnovo region there is rumor that not Borisov, but Tsvetanov has determined how the funds are distributed and it depends on whether a project will succeed and whether a project will be financed. That is why we were modest in our demands, because it is better to go and deal with Mr. Tsvetanov and not here when the budget is being discussed. My question is related to the Minister of Finance, unfortunately, it is gone and perhaps one of the rulers who made this budget and who participated in the formation of the budget will tell us in more detail: how do they see the energy efficiency programme or the renovation programme? An extremely unfair program. In the way it was implemented, unfair to Bulgarian citizens, what is your vision with regard to the Energy Efficiency Programme? Because you, because you have pre-electionly made and implemented part of this programme, have spent a purely election of some 2 billion "large public financial resources," but this has remained with the poor feeling of Bulgarian citizens that one part is taking advantage of it for free and another part will have to pay. So I want to hear some kind of answer and some argument about what I just said. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines? I won't. Next statement? Mr. Nikolai Ivanov has the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is to increase the capital expenditure funds of Krivodol Municipality in Vratsa District by 500 thousand. lv. The municipality has such a geographical position that when severe situations arise on the main road E79, all traffic in the direction of Vidin and Danube Bridge 2 and back in the direction of Sofia and Varna is redirected through this small municipality whose personal network is not designed to take on such an intensive movement. In the summer and by the end of October this happened due to a repair of the main road E79, a few days ago again due to the heavy winter environment the whole movement through the street network of the municipal center and part of the Republican network on the territory of the municipality was rerouted. There are extremely severe distortions on the street network, which the Ministry of Regional Development has undertaken to urgently repair, but this will not be enough, especially in future such situations. I therefore ask that my proposal be supported for sufficient funds which the municipality itself cannot provide for the repair of the street network, all the more so that the municipality itself is in an extremely difficult financial condition. I hope that we will receive support for this and thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I look at other groups as well. Here you are, Mr. Ali. You have the floor. Then Mr. Kirilov, so that they are not from the same group of speaking MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am sorry that the Minister of Finance is missing, but I assume he is monitoring the media processes to hear what the people's elected people are proposing here on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. It looks very ugly last night and I saw on the news when MPs are speaking.. there are no lines, there are no duplicates, everything is okay in the country, Bulgaria blooms! At some point, don't let it turn out to play you, turn to the government, a very bad joke. We are MPs here to have debates, case studies and disputes in order to find the best solution for all municipalities in Bulgaria, and generally for all residents in the country, so that this emigration will not continue, which is already probably over three million. Honourable Members, the Bill takes into account a number of long-term proposals by municipalities to support the financially weaker municipalities. There are, of course, positive things in the bill itself, including the proposed increase in subsidies for the activities delegated by the State for 2019. At the same time, however, we should note that positive changes in terms of financing most of the state-sponsored activities will provide mainly, notice, catching up on the rise of the minimum wage rather than the dignified wage of labour in the budgetary sphere. The important transfers for local activities, the overall matching subsidy, the target subsidy for capital expenditure and winter maintenance and snow cleaning remain far below the levels that would ensure an effective quality of public services and an adequate resource for maintaining the municipal road network. For years the municipalities, through the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, have proposed to provide relatively equal funding to the Republican and municipal road network in order to ensure equal quality for citizens living in these settlements. It should be noted that the total length of the municipal road network in the Republic of Bulgaria is 19 500 km. We have commented on this when we discussed the Tol System Act, when the Minister and I had disputes and said that the municipal road network is as much as the Republican, including highways in the Republic of Bulgaria, that is, 20 thousand. $20,000. kilometers. Given that the streets in the settlements are still 57,000. km, of which colleagues, 65%, are in extremely poor condition, we need to think carefully and find the right mechanism when distributing the financial resources. A budget is adopted in order for there to be a level playing field between residents and those who travel through these Republican road networks and infrastructures as highways not only Bulgarian but also foreign citizens. Dear colleagues, the National Association, when discussing art. 54, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, as a result of these changes and the mechanism, by the way, without discussing with the mayors of municipalities, left 19 municipalities without receiving funding without this matching subsidy for 2019. I mean, these municipalities are well financially. Municipalities such as Plovdiv, such as Sofia, as coastal municipalities that are in the Republic of Bulgaria, but this is not the way to stop this municipalities from funding. I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have prepared such a distribution mechanism and perhaps in the next governance of the country, which we expect will happen, we will propose a more adequate allocation of these funds. Dear colleagues, let us do what the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria want and because we are a winter period, during this winter period to bet this is my proposal and the group's movement for rights and freedoms, additional funds of 3 million. lv. for winter maintenance and snow cleaning, which are as a reserve in the Ministry of Finance, and where necessary, the designated municipalities should be financed by these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? Here you go for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Tanner Ali, I have listened very carefully to your statement on the Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. What exactly did you mean when you said that the matching subsidy, the target subsidy for capital expenditure, and especially for winter maintenance and snow cleaning, remains far below the levels that would provide a higher level of public funds, given that the 2019 budget is precisely 10 million more for these services than the 2018 budget? The exact amount is 294 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Here you are, you have the opportunity for a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ali, I meant that an increase of 10 million of the budget is extremely insufficient for all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria due to the simple fact that there are different municipalities and different territories in the country. If we start from the Rhodopes, where the most difficult regions are available and where almost twice as much costs for winter maintenance and reconstruction of landslides are made for a kilometer, these funds compared to the other ones in Northern Bulgaria, in Northeastern Bulgaria or South Bulgaria are quite different. Given the accounts of last year of the National Association of Municipalities and of all mayors of municipalities, it is estimated that this year, if we have a harsh winter, we hope it is not so, we pray to the Most High that this does not happen, but if this happens, these funds, which are laid down additionally, and every year, will have unpaid costs from municipalities to companies, such as liabilities. That is why it was my proposal for an additional 3 million. lv. in the country's budget as a reserve resource for winter maintenance in 2019. Dear colleagues, Mr Ali, I hope that this budget, which is increased by the total budget for the country by nearly 456 million. $100,000. BGN, will be almost at the level of the funds that were last year. Why? Because these funds include wage increases, an increase in funds that will be additionally paid as expenses in relation to local activities. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u157	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov has long been willing to take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My colleagues from Sofia-district have made proposals for more funds in the budget for municipalities. I do not believe that this will be supported, but I would still like to say a few words on the mechanism for financing municipalities and for one step in the right direction. For the first time in the budget, there is such a mechanism that calculates how municipalities that have more money do not receive a matching subsidy. It is an instrument that helps or should be used for internal cohesion in the country and for levelling standards between levels in different municipalities. It is a good thing that this step is being taken, but the bad thing is that part of the indicators in the calculation of which municipalities to have a matching subsidy and which ones not to have are not objective enough. I believe that it is not only possible to look at permanent tax receipts, but also at other permanent receipts in the local budget. It is so that municipalities that have too much local income will receive countervailing subsidies, and at the same time municipalities that do not have enough budget to carry out their own activities? because they have good collection will not receive a matching subsidy. I am glad that it is going in this direction and a large part of these municipalities, such as Sofia and Plovdiv, which have a sufficient budget, do not receive countervailing subsidies. I believe that the problem must be solved with a larger financial decentralisation.. part of the income tax revenue and the corporate tax to remain in the municipalities where the people or companies working in the territory of these municipalities are registered. This is a proposal that has been spoken of for a very long time. I hope that in the next budgets we will continue this nice step and make it a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, I am pleased that you support the policy of the Ministry of Finance. This proposal was also discussed in the Budget Commission, namely how the matching subsidy and the capital expenditure to be even fairer distributed by municipalities, which not only, as you said, have a penalty for poorly forming their revenue, but also that some do not have large companies, large taxpayers in their territory, and therefore, in one form or another, the republican budget to be fairer to them to help Bulgarian citizens even in these smaller municipalities. In fact, there are not many municipalities that will not have a matching subsidy for this year will not receive a financial injection to reach citizens and the population in the territory of these municipalities. This proposal for greater decentralisation, which you have said, has been discussed for many years. I think it's not that much, and it really has its new shades, and I think the good practice that we're starting can be further developed in the coming years. Thank you, however, for the support you expressed to the policy for this year and the matching subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Will you take a hole, Mr. Kirilov? Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u162	This is a good step, but the bad thing is that the road to hell is paved with good wishes and intentions. Again, I say: this formula cannot only involve permanent tax revenues, it cannot be that a municipality that has enough other local income gets a matching subsidy and such municipalities that do not have any local, additional revenue receive some minimum subsidy. Yeah, it's the right move. I hope this problem will be resolved in the next budget. I hope that this financial decentralisation will be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Next statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I must tell you that the situation we are in is a situation of déjà vu. Last year at that time we had proposals related to the financial allocation of aid for municipalities or specific programmes....................... we proposed, you didn't care, you didn't accept, of course. Unfortunately, I have a feeling things are in a deja vu situation this time. We offer again, you will not accept them probably, but I wish you would open your senses a little more and your social sensitivity to the quite ordinary problems of people living in the town of Karlovo. After talking with them and the mayors of settlements from last year, I will allow myself this year to propose that what they are seeking be improved in their settlements. This is usually connected to small streets, not major roads and highways. I propose in art. The following amendments shall be made in a table, Section Plovdiv-district: "1." In line with Karlovo, the number s. 1 158.2 million (in column 6) is replaced by s.2 821.8 million (in column 6). Means of repairing the streets in the town of Kalofer, Banya, the town of Klisura, the village of Bogdan, the village of Beguntsi, the village of Vedrare, the village of Voynyagovo, the village of Gorni Domlyan, the village of Dobene, the village of Iganovo, the village of Karavelovovo, the village of Kliment, the village of Kurtovo, the village of Karnare and several other settlements where we have offers to repair children's playgrounds. I conclude by calling on colleagues from the Plovdiv region, including the President of the Commission, to really open up their sensitivity to the problems of people in small towns and to support the proposal. I am merely adding the proposal to order Hissarya the number Once again, I call for your social sensitivity to the problems of small towns and people in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u165	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Mr. Popov, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u166	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With various bills that subsequently become laws, of course, you are adding more and more duties and responsibilities to the municipalities, without, however, providing them with the relevant resources to fulfil these duties you have appointed. As such a fracking example I could point out, here is a letter to the Director of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety: "In relation to numerous signals received in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. What according to this letter is included as obligations of the municipal councils and of the respective municipalities: 40, para. 3 of the Animal Protection Act, the municipal councils adopt a Programme for implementation of the National Program and Action Plan of the respective municipality, which meet the requirements of the ordinance under para. 2. Counting stray dogs and cats is the direct competence of municipalities. In this regard, it is necessary to request official assistance to the municipalities concerned to provide the available data on the population of stray cats and its dynamics over the last three years. Here, the mayors must count the dead cats and their dynamics over the last three years.. This is what you call an obligation of the mayors and the municipalities. It's a fracking example. The State Budget Project for 2019 has virtually failed to accept the proposals of municipalities summarised through the Ministry of Finance by the Association of Municipalities. In these proposals, the increase in state-sponsored activities is estimated at 139.7 million. The draft budget provides for 92,7 million or 47 million. lv. less. Even more drastic is the situation in the transfer of local activities......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The municipality's proposal is to increase 146 million. lv. As of 2018, and in the 2019 budget, the State has provided for an increase of only 23,3 million. lv. Moreover, in a statement on 28 October 2018, Prime Minister Borisov said: "In the budget for next year there are over half a billion leva more for municipalities, mainly in Northern Bulgaria. The growth of the matching subsidy for Northwestern Bulgaria is over 114%. However, the figures clearly indicate something else. The growth of the matching subsidy for municipalities in the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, Lovech is less than 20%. He also claims that he has priority funds for the development of the street network and municipal roads. This infrastructure is mainly financed by the municipalities by means of a targeted subsidy for capital expenditure and own revenues. In the 2019 Budget Project, its increase for municipalities compared to 2018, is only 6% "from 164 to 174 million." Can this be defined as a priority, honourable Members? In practice, the announced large increase in the budget for municipalities covers the increase in wages, the state-sponsored activities and the increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2019, as well as those nonsense which I just read, replaced by the municipalities. Actually, he can't even cover them. Unlike the Council of Ministers, which by decrees, without clear rules, without transparency distributes a calpat to its municipalities and close friends, to 99% of its municipalities, state money, for Vidin region there are 11 municipalities. We have proposed for all 11 municipalities, regardless of which municipality, figuratively speaking, according to the government is ours, yours, because in all municipalities live decent Bulgarian citizens, an increase in capital expenditure by about 10%, because in Northwestern Bulgaria and Vidin the main employer are the municipalities. There is no job, there is no, unfortunately, there are already people of working age, because they are all either abroad or in major cities. A major employer, again, remains municipalities, which lose their capacity every year to work or protect at all, and to implement some project with euro funds, on the other hand. These municipalities rely on State aid. In this budget, however, there is no such help, and the Northwest, despite the calls here and what I read to you from the Prime Minister, is again not on the map. Again for Northwestern Bulgaria, and in particular for Vidin, for all 11 municipalities, are not foreseen in the focus of the state, a targeted and differentiated approach is not foreseen because you can not even compare the district center Vidin with Sofia or Bregovo with Plovdiv in order to have the same approach. These municipalities need targeted aid from the state to be able to catch up with the rest of Bulgaria because they are currently outside Bulgaria. Currently as a standard of living, as opportunities, they are really outside the rest of Bulgaria. Not that in the rest of Bulgaria they have bloomed and tied up, but in Northwestern Bulgaria, in particular in the Vidin region, the situation is really tragic. There we are becoming more and more a reservation, as a territory without people, without opportunities for economic growth, with exported central government administrations going to the neighbouring areas or coming back here in Sofia. There's no possibility of business development. The infrastructure to the Northwest also forgot it and canceled it. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm finished, Mr. Chairman. I hope you will accept this proposal and really pay special attention to the Northwest. At least you all say you want attention, but that's not what we see here in the Budget Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u167	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. I will give the floor to Mr. Toshev to interrupt the speeches on one side of the House. Mr. Toshev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Yesterday I didn't stand up to oppose what my colleagues said, I just want to tell them about the statistics. There's a State Statistical Institute, and there's Eurostatistics. Open them up, and when you show these leaves, at least pick the right numbers. Your mistake was more than double, more than double was the mistake, open your Internet and you will see. Secondly, honor and respect for these proposals you make them. Here it is, the finance minister is here, a rough bill, I haven't done it exactly to thousands of levs, but up to millions is pretty much correct. Tell the Finance Minister and the Chairman of the Financial Commission to the Parliament where to get these 140 and more million levs to add them to the subsidies of the municipalities? How do they get them? On the other hand, isn't it a bit impertinent that there is a colleague in Central Bulgaria who has proposed an 11-fold increase in what the government offers 11 times! That's it. For Vidin, why is it on this course, and what do we inherit? The mayor until 2015 is BSP, BGN 21 million liabilities under 36 million budget. [[Noise and lines.]] Seven million overdue, blocked accounts, blocked cash register, blocked water, electricity, traffic lights did not work in Vidin with the mayor of BSP. Yes, yes, here is colleague Popov, he will tell you the same facts. [[Noise and lines.]] He now runs the mayor of GERB. We inherited over 80 delà from the municipality's contractors for forced payment of debts. A failed project of over 5 million. lv. He's safe and ready right now. Epigraph center completely failed. It's working now. The structure of unemployment, which you are talking about at the moment, in the Vidin region unemployment is the same as the national average. However, thanks to your management, the unemployed, who are currently unemployed, do not have any qualifications, no matter how hard we try to qualify them now, some of them do not have a diploma for secondary education. With the mayor of BSP here is the finance minister here, collection of local taxes and fees 47%. Now with an average for the country about 70%, in Vidin is 75%. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A very beautiful region for living is Vidin, an extremely beautiful region for living. Vidin during these three years, since managing GERB municipality, has become an academic center. [[(Laughter and lines:]] In Vidin this summer... Yeah, as funny as that is. The lady who laughs the most, the prominent athlete, we barely bought our rowing base. The rowing base had taken us, the shooting range of the South Danube Park, a complex........................ food and commercial. Whatever. Currently, the municipality's debts have decreased more than double, with the overdue being less than 1 million and being paid regularly and without any secured accounts, and we have no cases. If we look at Vidin in terms of investment, without Danube Bridge 2, Vidin is in one of the top places in the country on investment per capita. If we include Danube Bridge 2, we will beat Sofia because Sofia includes the subway, we do not include Danube Bridge 2. Whoever can do the math can see it. The other, for E-79, colleagues from the Northwest and from all over Bulgaria, why do we have no way? Because they sued the E-79 EIA report on the construction of the new route, for the village of Kosticovtsi, that there was nesting of starlings, and there was nowhere to nest the starlings, so we have no way. Four years the project has been delayed. Now there are over 8,000 alienation procedures so that it can move. However, GERB follows the laws and we must follow the laws. The plots are being made and the PSUs are changing if anyone doesn't know. Currently in Vidin according to the Regionals in growth and under the Ministry of Environment and Water projects are implemented for more than 70 million. lv. If BSP's management in Vidin had not been changed with GERB, now Vidin municipality at forty-something million budget would return 75 million for the water cycle because of a failed treatment plant. She's finishing up right now. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. That was a statement. Are there lines? Mr. Popov wants a line. Mrs. Lecheva also said a line. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u170	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Toshev, what you said about the stopped traffic lights is absolutely true, only this was after the management of Mr. Vidov, Mayor and Mayor of GERB, who is currently sentenced to the last instance. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He's been sentenced to last resort. When the mayor of BSP stepped up in Vidin, the municipality had no pens, no pens to write with. The traffic lights were off. Twenty-two million BGN liabilities.. 22 million BGN liabilities! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What you said is true, but it concerns the local government of GERB. You said the unemployment rate in Vidin was down. I'm sure that's the case at the moment, and I'll tell you why. Because BSP provided funds that were allocated to Vidin during the time of Oresharski. Now, with that money, over 12 million. BGN, you will make a square in Vidin. You break the marble, and like in Sofia, you'll be putting up some pavements and sand. Well, you can't break it down yet, because it's been built for years, a really nice square there was in Vidin. The Chamber of Architects said a very small reconstruction was needed, but 12 million had to be spent. lv. And the companies in Vidin just can't keep up with hiring people and smashing the square. And that's why the unemployment rate could be lower right now. The second factor for the lower unemployment rate in Vidin is because they don't go to the Bureau of Labour. People live on ID in Vidin, but they're somewhere in the country or Romania and they work there. That's why unemployment has decreased. Why don't we have a path? Well, because at the time of the government of Oresharski road E-79, high speed, four-band, was introduced into Operational Programme You came, came Gemini and pulled him out of the Operational Programme "Transport". That's why there's no road. We have now had a few questions to the regional ministers - all from GERB - well, by introducing tol fees, possibly after 2020, after 2030 and so on. This is the truth about Vidin and all the people of Vidin... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finished, Mr. Chairman. ...Dear Mr. Toshev, and you know it, and I know we're from Vidin, Vidin. I really hope that you will support our proposals, because, when the last parliamentary elections ended, my colleague Topchiev and I proposed a declaration to all members of the Vidin region with priorities. Unfortunately, only the two of us signed it. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u171	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there another line? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Lecheva, excuse me. Order, please! Mr. Atalay, please take your seat, it's not convenient to keep an eye on you for so long. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva. We'll take the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u172	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My reply to Mr. Toshev is precisely from our concern against the unprincipled allocation of funds for municipalities. In your speech you share again the municipalities of GERB and BSP. We want to be clearly described the financial resources with which the Bulgarian municipalities will be supported and not for certain municipalities to be taken out as magicians from the sleeve. Here, I will tell you: why, for example, did 140 million state funds give away in the municipality of Varna? Why didn't they relax, for example, for Veliko Tarnovo, for Vidinska, as you say? Why do you object, for example, to increase the funds for Vidin? I was in Makresh looking like an evacuated village. They're deserted because there's no investment in these settlements. We're against the unprincipled distribution the way you're doing it. Last year, through a decree of the Council of Ministers, you distributed nearly a billion and a half, and this year you will distribute this against the division of the municipalities of BSP and GERB. And for what you took the liberty of saying, I had nothing to do with the rowing base. If you find it my property, I will give you this property. [[GERB lines.]] But she was never mine, you know? I never claimed anything. Please! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Another line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. That's the third line to Mr. Toshev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Toshev, in your speech you neglected to note: your replicating Mr. Philip Popov, who has since yesterday made similar statements related to the budget of the Municipality of Vidin, how many times has he been a MP from this area [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and in which government how much money has been allocated not only to the district center Vidin and the municipal ones, because I am tired of listening to false news from this tribune [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , and specifically by Mr. Philip Popov in the last few days. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Toshev's hole, then Mr. Philip Popov's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the numbers, you read the budget presented by the Council of Ministers in the National Assembly, not the one of "Positano" because you are confused. The other is official information.. under Rumen Vidov the duties of Vidin municipality are eight and a half million, with Gergo Gergov are over 21 million. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He's been convicted for allowing himself to do things that laws judge aren't right, and the prosecution is suing him. This shows that both MPs and mayors of GERB do not have an umbrella who wrongfully tolerates his punishment. The second is regarding the financing of municipalities of GERB and BCP. Rubbish. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In Makresh, he runs the BCP. I'm not wrong! In Makresh, he runs the BCP. Partisan municipality is from 1943. No one else has ever ruled there. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And now open § 50 and see for Vidin municipality the increase for the matching subsidy for the year is 14.2% and for Makreska municipality is 17.3%. So don't say such things! In terms of... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're well-managed, yes! You're super-managed!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u177	Mr. Toshev, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u178	That's why you must have been in jeeps and you can't get to Makresh. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, Vidin is still wonderful and is closest to Europe. Now I use the time that remains for one minute, and I would like to call on everyone: to know that on 1 December 2018 130 years of the death of the first Chairman of the Constitutional Assembly and the first Chairman of the First Grand National Assembly, Ekzarh Antim I, buried in Vidin. We'll celebrate it there. Here you go. There live decent people, not all are from GERB and from BSP. So please come and pay our respects to a great Bulgarian. Thank you. Ekzarh Antim I. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u179	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Here you go, Mr. Popov. For colleagues only, the replica and the duplicate are types of speeches. I have already shared my consistent understanding that mentioning the name of a Member of the National Assembly during this kind of speech...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u180	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u181	I'm telling other colleagues. Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for sharing this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm of the same opinion. It's a kind of statement, whether it's a line or a backdrop. I appeal to Mrs. Atanasova with a personal explanation, and it is this: I am a member of the 40th and second, Forty-Third and Forty-fourth National Assembly, rather than a member of the Parliament and you, I think. In the last parliamentary elections I was the leader of the list in Vidin, dear Mrs. Atanasova, and we would GERB with a 12% difference in the country. [[Applause, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Obviously, I've done something for the area, for the city, to get that trust there. I don't know what you got in your election district. For all these years, I've been a ruling party for a year. How many years were you and you were in charge? What have you done for the region to get this huge support in its regions? That's my answer. And in the case of false news, I never allowed myself to spread false news about anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u183	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u184	If you are referring to the signal in the relevant media, websites, national media, with which we have addressed the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, this is the law. You have passed this law, which in art. 47, if I am not mistaken, indicates that a signal essentially represents a publication in the media. We have requested the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the seizure of the illegally acquired property to see if this signal is false, isn't that false? That's the whole truth. I didn't signal, I didn't spread that signal. [[GERB lines]] in the media, or anywhere. In no way against any of the colleagues or Minister Goranov, who is currently not here, who, by the way, in relation to the signal given against him, admitted himself. So I've never distributed a false signal, and I'm not gonna spread it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u185	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We're done with the Vidin region. Let's move on to the Rhodopes. Probably Smolyan? Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I will refer to our proposal, as a group of MPs, in terms of increasing the funds for the municipalities in a complex way. The fellow Tanner Ali from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has spoken to them. With the bill being tabled, a protocol for disagreements with municipalities is always introduced. We believe that what has been done so far, such as an increase in funds for municipalities, has been increased, but above all the 10% increases for administration and money for teachers are covered. There is very little increase in funds for the activities in the municipalities and therefore we support the last meeting of the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria with an appeal to the government to increase by 110 million capital expenditure and the government to distribute them. This is not a coincidence the initiative from different areas. Secondly, we do support the means of winter maintenance to be increased, and we will monitor how it will take place in winter. You saw, at the very first time I asked the Minister if the country was ready for the winter, we warned about the icing and just in the Stoykas turned a van because the road was an icy state road. Don't joke about winter and support even the little money that municipalities want. In parallel, we support the proposal of municipalities to give more money to the municipal administration. We have offered 12 million for the mayors of small villages and 46 million for the municipal administration. There are great contrasts within the municipalities themselves and therefore the group of MPs make a joint proposal in art. 50 for attitude towards the Bulgarian municipalities. Since under art. 1 You said that you accepted the framework, you accepted the money of the municipalities and our increase did not accept it, today you have the opportunity to resolve this issue. It's not that complicated. At the end of the day we will increase the money under the common framework in art. 1. Now in my election district, Smolyan District. I want to share and you know that this is an extremely large area in the Central Rhodopes, where everything is on wheels, with a lot of population. Maybe it's the only area after Kardzhaliyska and Targovishka, with the most settlements of more than 246. People everywhere want to have dignity and travel in good ways. In the municipalities of Banite, Borino and Devin, I have asked for an increase in money for municipal roads and I have specified them: for Banite, Davidkovo, Galabovo, Dryanka, Oryahovets, Malka Arda, Vishnevo and Bodilkovo, a municipality that lives in this way; for Borino as a whole for municipal roads and streets; for Devin for the road Trigrad The governments of the left we built the geothermal plant in the center, gave the opportunity to take out the water at the village of Erma river. Let us give Zlatograd the opportunity to develop as a geothermal center. So far, all the ministers of the environment and water say there are no options. In parallel to this there is how Zlatograd will develop its image as a balneocenter; for Madan I can not help but say that the mayor works, but there are more roads To make these roads as well, because money under the Rural Development Programme has already been set. There is a need for this to be done; for Nedelino, we need to build the road Krajna..... and for the inner streets these are new problems that arise with the landslide processes; for Rudozem, Elhovets, Tsvetino and I will come to Smolyan. Smolyan municipality is from the municipalities where five rural municipalities have been gathered, added to the city, with 76 settlements. Here I propose for municipal roads and streets, because as growth regions there is no possibility for funds in the rural periphery. I say that a lot. I suggest, along with that, that we... [[GERB's line.]] Yes, and the time will surely tell the President. They're here for the homeless dogs, the town of Smolyan itself for the inner streets. These are three settlements collected 58 years ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u187	Mrs. Yankova, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u188	...and for the town of Chepelare I propose in Dolen Rupchos the villages of Pavelsko, Zornitsa and Junipera.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u190	I appeal to you all: support the proposal for municipalities and the Rhodope municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u191	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the debate on municipalities in this budget, in this section is the main characteristic of how and how the government enables municipalities to further develop. For many years in each budget, the aspirations of municipalities to make themselves decentralised and to gain independence, with which they can collect those funds by which to invest in their own municipalities somehow does not happen. It didn't happen in our government either, but you came up with the idea that you would do it by coming to power and not for ten years now. The association of municipalities requires 110 million. lv. as capital, not to take that money and make it impossible to invest in infrastructure or snow-cleaning. Just look at the roads in the Silistren region, look at the roads in the Ruse region, look at the roads in any area you take. If you look at the roads in Razgrad region, you will also come to the conclusion that the 110 million. lv. capital is a very small part of what municipalities want. I understand that only in Vidin municipality everything blooms, in Vidin municipality there are so many investments that all the way from Sofia people started moving to Vidin. We will respond to the invitation and we will go to the celebration of the death of Antim I, but I also propose that the entire National Assembly go to see how and how funds are invested there, that this municipality has developed so much. Colleagues, for snow-cleanings along the Danube, in Northeastern Bulgaria by turning the blizzards, 3 days each people cannot move and go to get bread. This increase, which is currently in the budget, is not enough. The DSS's offer by Mr. Tanner Ali is: let him have 3 million. BGN, which are in reserve and when there are such subprime situations, there are means to clean the roads. Why don't we give 110 million? lv. What is proposed at the moment, distributed in each municipality and for landslides and for extreme situations? Where do you keep this money? Probably back in art. 1. By the way, when they hear art. 1, BSP immediately get goose bumps, but this time it is about art. 1 in the budget, colleagues, where there are certain funds that will be spent only through the eyes and through the Prime Minister's portfolio. The idea is, colleagues, to focus and make sure that we at least give the municipalities the opportunity for the infrastructure of Bulgaria, because those funds that you will collect from the toll system will not go to these municipal roads. That's what we're asking for. My request is to support this proposal in order to have each area those means by which they can normally make it possible to develop as Vidin region. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u193	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Klisurska, come in. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u194	Madam President, honourable Members! The decentralisation of the Bulgarian municipalities, which everyone is talking about, is only on paper, only chimera. It's not really happening. Currently, more than 120 laws impose obligations on municipalities without the necessary financial collateralisation for this. Even more so with this budget under art. 40, which is being offered to us, we are currently seeing an increase in funds, but this increase is mainly and only due to the increase of the minimum wage for wages, but for capital investments there is no money. The Bulgarian municipalities were brought to decapitalization precisely because of these changes in obligations of all laws. In this regard, the request of the National Association of Municipalities 110 million is justified. lv. to be set aside for all Bulgarian municipalities, 110 million. lv. to be earmarked for capital investments. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I see you in the front, you have a lot of fun, but the Bulgarian municipalities have no fun. The way you made your decision this morning about that 50 million. BGN, you pulled them out of your sleeve like a magician, and you changed art. 1, I also call on the Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the proposal of the National Association of Municipalities and to meet the requests for capital investments of 110 million. lv. Now specifically on the proposal made for Pazardzhik district. It is my great regret that at the moment I see only one colleague from Pazardzhik district, because we will talk about the infrastructure in Pazardzhik district. [[Relations from the National Representative Halil Letifov.]] Two, I'm sorry about that. I asked the regional minister about the state of road infrastructure in Pazardzhik district last month. And you know what she says to me? He points out that at the moment, over 50% of the road infrastructure is in unsatisfactory and poor condition. Don't people live in this area? Most likely, the government is focusing resources on political reasons. This is what has led to great social and regional differences. This is precisely what depopulated our regions because there is no fair distribution of capital resources for the respective municipalities. I will mention the two proposals I make in art. 50. One proposal is related to the Western ring road of Pazardzhik, which is currently passing through the central part of the city. The minister in response to a question admits that this is unacceptable and that it is extremely important that this western ring road is realized, but unfortunately, the Road Infrastructure Agency does not have the defined financial resources. Did you know that through the central part of the city where all this traffic goes, which I am going to read: Etropole We expect an accident similar to that in Italy to wake up the government and realize that infrastructure does not only happen in those cities where we have mayors, but should happen equally. The other proposal I make is related to the road from Pazardzhik to Strelcha. This is a forgotten Bulgarian municipality, which is a resort, and the road from Pazardzhik to Strelcha is no longer usable. Every day a school bus has to take students from Blatnitsa, Dulevo and Smiletz to Strelcha. On this bus, I don't know when an accident will happen to make them think it's being used by people this time. Last year, the regional minister promised that funds will be allocated to Strelcha in 2018 for this time too, but, unfortunately, not a single penny in this budget has been allocated to him. What I am doing as a proposal is not to realize the entire road section, but to partially realize the segment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u195	The weather, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u196	Partly realize the section because in these settlements people live in them, even though there are no mayors of GERB, there should be a connection. I urge you, Mrs. Stoyanova, to reconsider the decision under art. 1 and 110 million. lv. for the capital investments of the municipalities to be put to the vote right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My proposal is to increase capital expenditure for Sevlievo municipality. For years there live people who, by month and above, do not have water and drinking water. They were forced into the 21st century of 2018, to use water from watermen. Old people, young children, babies the water is made of water. Thirty-five days this year, September and October, there was no water there. The funds I'm offering are for replacing etheric plumbing. Since 1962, the plumbing hasn't been replaced. There, the moment the water goes out, after a month, the plumbing goes out and the water has to be shut down again. 1962! Do you know what quality of water we're talking about? You probably don't know, because you can't imagine what it's like to have no drop of water and no water leaking out of the tap. [[Noise in the room.]] You may not be interested in this topic, but when you vote in a moment, imagine that these are your parents or your children, and that they will not...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u199	Mr. Stoyanov, don't distract Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. She should listen carefully to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u200	...that these are your parents and your loved ones who have no water for more than 30 days. The municipality of Sevlievo is an economic centre, but for years the problem of water has been proverbial and has become a national problem. Unfortunately, however, it is not a problem for the current rulers. Again, I call on you: support my proposal and let us begin the rehabilitation of the plumbing there, because one of the rights we have is access to quality drinking water. Unfortunately, this right of residents of Sevlievo municipality has been revoked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u202	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The state of the municipal roads in Ruse district is tragic. Many times the previous and the current Minister of Regional Development answered the questions we asked and explained and promised us, but nothing ever happened. All these promises and explanations once again led to a sad state. Future repairs never happened. There is not enough money for these roads, which is also evident in the budget. People repeatedly expressed their dissatisfaction. They went out to protest, closed roads. The municipal council of one of the municipalities twice went to an open road meeting and closed them down, but still nothing! These proposals for more funds for repair and rehabilitation of municipal roads are dictated by all these circumstances. There is no real link, real reflection of the promises of the government in the budget reflected. Do not be strong only on promises, but support our proposals. Show that you can do and stand by your words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u203	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u204	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal I have made is for the repair of a section of a road in the municipality of Burgas, which we have been commenting on for maybe 10 years. Its main renovation began in 2008 on a European project and should be completed after 2 years after the completion of the renovation activities. Part of the segment remains unrehabilitated. From then on, in 2010 the road is frozen. With modest means of Burgas municipality were made two sections of 400 meters each, after which, however, in the last two years, none were granted again. I've also put the question to the new Minister of Regional Development... [[Replications by the United Patriarchs]] ... Banevo is a separate connecting section between Trakiya highway and Sunny Beach, but again a voice in the desert. It is clear to me that the municipality of Burgas does not have such funds to react this time, it is clear that the main funds of capital expenditure go to the central city, but also in small towns live people who pay taxes. I therefore call on the Members of the People's Republic of Burgas, and everyone in the Chamber, to support our proposal in order to end this saga that has been going on for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u205	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I won't. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u206	Madam President, I would like to make a procedure for extending the working hours today until the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u208	Madam President, what Mrs. Stoyanova said is extremely important. In view of the upcoming important vote, I ask for a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u209	I'm asking for the lists. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Here are also Daniel Yordanov, Valentin Radev, Aleksandar Nenkov, Vladimir Toshev, Alexander Siddi, Bürhan Abase, Ivan Mihovski, Jayhan Ibryamov and Dencho Boyadzhiev. 139 MPs are present. We have a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. Are there any speeches? Honourable Members, we are continuing with a vote on the procedure for extending working hours. Please, voting mode. They voted 152 MPs: 102, against 32, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we shall continue with the vote on art. 50. Many unsupported proposals follow. Please set yourself patiently for a long vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 153 MPs: 54, against 72, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: 57 against 71, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. There is again a proposal from Milko Nedyalkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 58, against 72, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Next, a proposal from Kristina Sidorova, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 167 MPs: for 59, against 71, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the next proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 167 MPs: 59 against 81, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Next is a proposal from Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 165 MPs: 64, against 72, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 167 MPs: 62, against 69, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 170 MPs: 63 against 71, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 63, against 64, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the next proposal by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 61, against 64, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: 64, against 68, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Following is a vote on the proposal of the National Representative Veska Nencheva, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 65 against 65, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Next, a proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: for 65, against 69, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 165 MPs: for 60, against 71, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Next is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: for 73, against 66, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 158 MPs: 56 against 46 abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Yavor Bojankov and Valentin Lambev, not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 66, against 61, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. After this series of proposals which have not been adopted, we shall vote on the text of the importer for art. 50. Vote 172 MPs: 113, against 57, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u210	Under art. 51 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51 at the end of the table of row [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u211	Wait a minute! Here you go, Mr. Chenchev. Revoting procedure, most likely?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I'd like a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u213	We are going to re-vote the text that has just been voted on for art. 50. Vote 164 MPs: 106, against 57, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u214	Under art. 51 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51 at the end of the table the following amendments shall be made to the table: 1. the number sss3 234 390,2ss in column 1 is replaced by s3 294 390,2s. 2. the number ss301 766,2 "in column 2' is replaced by s361 766,2 ". 3. the number supplied in column 2a is replaced by supplied in column 2a. 4. the number ssq38 818,5. in column 2b is replaced by sq86 302.7 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51, in the table attached to the last row, the figure 3 234 390.2 is replaced by the figure 3 235 536,8 and the figure in the column "Supplied by the State" 122 891.3 is replaced by 124 037.9. ............................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u215	I'm opening the debate. Are there any statements under art. 51? I won't. We're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 152 MPs: 46, against 73, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the next proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 50, against 52, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 51. Vote 138 MPs: 95 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u216	Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: Art. 52............................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u217	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting, firstly, on the proposal of MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: 44, against 67, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u218	They voted 132 MPs: for 93, against 39, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u219	Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: Art. 53, para. 2... to The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u220	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. They voted 140 MPs: 44, against 51, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 53. They voted 133 MPs: for 94, against 39, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u221	The Commission shall support the texts of art. Article 54 57 including, by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u222	Statements? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u223	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think that with the ambition that the Minister of Health is putting on, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, to finally build a National Health Information System with a very modest sum of 7 million in my opinion. Seven hundred and sixty thousand. leva, it's just unacceptable. The money has to be a lot more. I don't think with this modest amount of money he'll be able to handle this task.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u224	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer from art. Article 54 57 included. Vote 131 MPs: for 92, against 39, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u225	There is a proposal under art. 58 of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "XV." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 58th number "sixty-two' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u226	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u227	[[Radio and applause.]] Thank you for your welcome, but the matter is important and we could have missed it just like that, but obviously it doesn't matter to you. Of course, it is important because food vouchers are perhaps the most preferred method used by employers and companies in Bulgaria to provide additional monthly income to employees. Perhaps here the interests of social partners coincide with the trade unions and employers' organizations, because they are an essential part of the social policy of a company, of a company and are a very good tool for motivation to retain staff. In Bulgaria vouchers have not gained the necessary popularity, as in the rest of the world, in the rest of Europe. Perhaps only because of the low quotas in the budget they benefit from them now in Bulgaria both Bulgarian companies and many foreign companies, international companies working on the territory of Bulgaria. They are all unanimous from the number of meetings we have had with the parliamentary group not on this budget, but from previous budgets, even with operators licensed to issue food vouchers, that food vouchers are an integral part of the social packages they provide to their employees. The current legislation gives employers a number of opportunities to present different social benefits. The basic norms are those of art. Article 293 294 of the Labour Code and, according to these provisions, the use of social and cultural services means is determined by a decision of the General Assembly of employees and these funds cannot be seized and used for other purposes. The employer may, independently and jointly with other bodies and organisations, provide employees with such opportunities. I continue to think that, at the moment, with the state budget, we could have determined a much higher amount than the currently proposed one. Our parliamentary group proposes an increase in this amount. I think it is normal to support this amount because it was raised slightly not last year, but the year before and has since been frozen again at these levels that you are offering for this year. At the same time, interest in this way, a method of further stimulating employees in a company is expanding. Support our proposal because it is appropriate and will not cost much money on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 110 MPs voted: 29, against 54, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 58. They voted 114 MPs: for 74, against 38, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u229	There is a proposal under art. 60 of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "XVl." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 60th number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' by The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u230	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. [[References between the President and the rapporteur.]] Let's vote on art. 60 and we'll go back to Art. It's a very technical mistake. Now we're going to vote art. 60, because Mrs. Stoyanova read art. 60, skipping art. 59. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not unsupported. They voted 109 MPs: 27, against 58, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 60. They voted 113 MPs: 77 against 36 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Art. 1 (2) (a) 59, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u231	There is a proposal under art. 59 of MP Yordan Tsonev and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59 to replace the number..84 million....to replace it with the number..94 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u232	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. They voted 114 MPs: 41, against 57, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 59. They voted 121 MPs: for 82, against 39, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u233	There is a proposal under art. 61 of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "VІІ." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u234	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 115 MPs: 39, against 60, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 61, supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: for 80, against 33, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u235	There is a proposal under art. 62 of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: It's the third time In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is created. 10: [[Noise and lines.]] The amount of one-off aid for the birth of a second and/or third child under art. 6, para. 3 of the Law on Family Aid for Children 2019 is BGN 6400. for each child........................................................................ to every child................................ 2. para. 10 " 13" became respectively. 11 " 14. 3. para. 14 becomes para. 15, in which the number 4th para. 15.. 18 become respectively. 16 "Sixteen. " The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u236	Statements? First Mrs. Zheleva, then Mr. Gokov
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues, our proposal is that the amount of one-time aid for a newborn should be BGN 6400. This should be for a second and for a third child, but note: the parents who are employed, provided 24 months before and at the time of birth. Also, the size for parent students also to be of this size at no less than the tenfold amount of minimum wage. A few years ago, it was placed... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u238	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u239	...Parliamentary task The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to update the existing National Strategy for Demographic Development of Bulgaria after it became clear that the Strategy is not working and is useless. In the last ten years, our country has fallen to two hundred and tenth place in the world in birth rates and has risen to the sixth death rate. The combination of these two facts made Bulgaria a champion in all these bad indicators. The population reduction is as follows: 80 thousand a year, 220 people a day, nine people every hour. Each year the plans for implementation of the updated national strategy for demographic development of Bulgaria and several organized national conferences related to this problem are adopted and implemented. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u240	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u241	That's the end of the subject. Personally, I do not see any real measures for improving health, for professional realization, for education. We put up with these scary findings, and this is our national strategy. The government's responsibility is limited to offering us an armistice and convincing us that it is difficult to correct. In Bulgaria reforms are difficult to make, but we have all kinds of strategies, and we have plans for them too, we even have reports to implement these plans. The ugly truth is that demographic policy in Bulgaria is that we make findings in the form of statistics and a huge paperwork emptied of content. That is why our proposal is specific. In life-level policies and demographic development, colleagues, we talk very often about financial resources, so I will make you a comparison. A few days ago, we found out that a change of two legal acts will take place from 2019, one of which is a Regulation on salaries in the state administration. This Regulation will allow for increased salaries of mayors, deputy mayors, district managers and executive agencies. Comparisons and priorities are a large part of the one-off aid and child support, child benefit. Before the debate, we found out who they were, I won't mention them again. Look and do the evaluation yourself, or I'd rather let the citizens do it. The real proposals are what can be done and what those who want to be irresponsible. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Zheleva, you are right that the Bulgarian families and the Bulgarian children should be helped, but the way in which you propose, I touched on this topic yesterday is not appropriate, because we know exactly which groups in Bulgaria will immediately take action to have a second and third child to take some 12 thousand. lv. This does not solve the demographic problem in Bulgaria. On the contrary, he'll deepen it. What I said yesterday from all the parliamentary groups to make a council that offers different things and to find out exactly the problems that are related to demographics and what to offer. Isn't it better to offer kindergartens and cribs not to have fees and the state to take them? Wouldn't it be better if the textbooks from 1 to 12 grade and the aids were free? Isn't that more important? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's put it all together, because you're offering what we did on communism. Those who had 3.4.5 children gave them apartments and settled them, and so a certain ethnic group in Bulgaria from 9 September, which was 80 thousand, with this policy on 10 November became 600 thousand. This policy will not help the demographic problem. That is why I propose such things and suggestions... let us sit down and discuss them and do just so that we can really help those people who will build the future of the state who work for the state who will raise their children and not just give birth to them. I'll give you an example of Russia, which has allocated funds and gives 10,000 each. A child's dollar, but they don't give it in cash, they give it to certain things. You can use them to pay for housing, for specific things related to the child, and so on, not cash, so there is no abuse. We have to feel the problems and offer the solutions, not just say: here we find the solution, that is, although the problem will become bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u244	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u245	Dear Mrs. Jeleva, we have also considered your suggestions. Now I will quote you exactly what is about the new para. 10, which you propose to create. The amount of one-off assistance when giving birth to a live-born second or third child under art. 6, para. 3 of the Children's Aid Act for 2019 is 6400 for each child. Article 6, para. 3 refers to the twins...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u246	That's not true! You misunderstand!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u247	How is that not true? Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u248	Go on, Mr. Genov, don't be influenced by this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u249	This is just about the twins. Please check your Family Aid Act for the children, because in art. 6, para. 3 is for twins, as is for twins and the whole art. 6a. In the budget, which is currently available for raising twins, there is also provided one-time help - this is 1200 BGN per child, and is applied 600 BGN per child, from the two children who will be born, receive about 3600 BGN. Your proposal, if so: You propose that the family receive a sum of about 15 thousand for having acquired twins. Yes, we would really like everyone to have such opportunities, but how are we going to relate it to a family where there is a second child who will receive only 600 leva. $15,000 against 600?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u250	Thank you, Dr. Genov. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take advantage of the right to a line to express my disagreement with the BSP colleague's proposal. In this case, I will express a common opinion on the proposals I hear in this direction by the representatives of the BSP, who, with these proposals, are actually putting into society a wrong opinion, a wrong position that by materially stimulating we can fix demographics. That's absolutely not true! Absolutely not true! Demographic processes are influenced by very complex factors. You can contact your colleague Dora Yankova, who feels that only she from your group is aware of what are the factors that influence, and they cannot in any way be compensated by one-off, multiple-off and any other aid. You can turn around and see what the results are in countries that offer quite a lot of incentive when giving birth to a child first, second, third and so on. The results aren't at all what they expected, so you're on the wrong track here. In no way do I agree with the continuing suggestion that with child support, materially stimulating birth rate will increase. The dear colleague Mrs. Jeleva is young, but let her ask her mother and father how many children their grandparents had, what material incentives they received and from there she will realize that it is absolutely wrong to believe that with material stimulation we will improve birth rates. You are young, read a little more, talk to your colleague Dora Yankova to find out what are the real reasons for increasing the birth rate and they are related to the general economy of the state and are also related to certain factors in the pedophychology of each nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u252	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go, Mrs. Jelena, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u253	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable replicators! I'll start with Mr. Simeonov's line. I will agree with you on two of the things you shared. First of all, that I'm young, yes, I am. Secondly, that this measure of ours is not alone and it alone will not solve the demographic problem, but I will report it with the fact that you did not listen carefully to me at first. I said what else needs to be done, but this is part of the measures, this is a first step. Other than what you have said, I do not think it is unnecessary. People outside this Parliament know a lot and have heard your statement, so I will no longer comment on them. On the second line, for there is an error.. it is not because you may not have read or seen the budget in its last pages "Transitional and final provisions.............................................................................. 3 and that is why we wrote a new para. In this new para. 3 and in this new para. 3, by amending the Family Aids Act for children in "Transitional and Final Provisions" so we have written this new para. 3.................................................................................. What you said wasn't an editorial error, you just didn't read your paper to the end. That's the second line. According to the first line, Mr. Angelov, I'm not saying that all measures are exhausted, as I said earlier about the previous line. The problem is really complex, but I started saying that for years we have been making round tables, conferences, creating documents, but actually we see Bulgaria going where Bulgaria is going. It goes that by 2030 it will significantly reduce our population, and we continue to create documents and continue to want to solve the problem with round tables. Please support this proposal because it is really one step ahead, and the round tables, strategies and conferences can still make them so that together we can clean up the problem and still do something to Bulgaria to have it. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u255	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mr. Gokov for letting me speak before him because he may be able to comment on what I will say and what colleagues and colleagues from GERB had in mind, as well as Mr. Simeonov. It's nice to take a look at your proposal, because I can read it to you. What you are proposing is: the amount of one-time help at birth of a live born second and/or third child under art. 6, para. 3 of the Children's Aid Act for 2019 to be 6400. [[Relations from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva.]] Now, by reading the Law at the moment, what is in para. 3 There is indeed talk of twins, so there is no way to perceive that it is absolutely true, because the way it is made, it is said of twins. What is written in the front of the proposal when it opens is:............................................................................ 6, para. 1.................................................................................. That could be where it's coming from... or we're getting confused, or the way it's written doesn't correspond exactly to the previous... [[Relations from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva.]] I'm telling you what they wrote. What I can't figure out is why did they write it like that? I expect you to come out and explain to us why it's written because there's a law. When I open and look at the Law, it does not correspond at all with what exists with you as a text. Please explain that to me. From another point of view, the real promotion of birth rates and the fight against demographics and the demographic crisis that we are in, because we are in crisis, we are even in disaster, maybe the exact definition. I don't know if the financial mechanism is the exact mechanism that is being sought, because if someone, for financial reasons, has to have children or we say to him: "Breed children on the basis of financial incentives" it does not represent for me the full definition of the words "responsible parenting." Understand that in modern conditions, no matter how well electoral it sounds, no matter how good it sounds outside and you can present it to the electorate, it may not be the right mechanism. The sum of all mechanisms is more correct and the emphasis may actually fall on other mechanisms rather than financial ones. The financials are coming post-factum. The financials should always be added post-factum and not be fundamental in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u256	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u257	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, evident from your reactions for ten minutes now, during which we have been debating on this article, that no one has obviously been fully acquainted with the report presented to us under the 2019 budget. If you open it and read it carefully. 198, Transitional and Final Provisions, which we introduce to amend the Family Aid Act for children, is evident, we are making a new para. 3, such as this, the current operating para. 3, becomes para. 9. Open it, read it, but I'll read from the stands what we do with al. 3: The size of the aid under para. 1 for the second and/or third child of parents, provided 24 months before and at the time of birth of the child, cannot be less than 10 times the minimum wage for the respective year for each child and is determined annually by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Alinea 3 under the current Law on Family Aid for Children becomes para. 9 on our proposal in Transitional and Final Provisions and what you are talking about the universal tools for helping young families...................... don't keep your proposals in your pocket, because in the end through policies, through the budget, which is the universal instrument for making policies, the problems of the young Bulgarian families who have chosen to live and work in Bulgaria are solved. Our proposal is extremely constructive because currently raising children in Bulgaria in these economic conditions, but with your economic instruments through the tax and insurance system, it does not allow them to stay and live here. In this regard, it is our proposal, and I hope that you will all support it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u258	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Second line, please, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u259	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleague Alexandrov, I disagree with your speech because it was vague and incomplete. Obviously, you need to explain better to your fellow Members on the left side of the Chamber that their proposal does not really comply with the Law on Laws, the Decree on its implementation and there is no way to record texts that do not exist at this time in the law in the form in which they believe they exist. That there is a proposed text for amendment, that there is another text of para. 3 of art. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children does not mean that this text will be adopted. Maybe the House won't vote in a minute. There will be no change in art. 6, para. 3 and what happens to your proposal? It becomes absurd, as are most proposals under the State Budget Act for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u260	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. For the third line please, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u261	I'm sorry, but you're just saying... The fact that you didn't get acquainted with the proposals under the entire bill does not excuse you for saying the wrong things in the stands. On page 1, page 1, 198 really writes what Mrs. Klisurska told you. Now what I'm telling you is that there's no way to rely on past things. I will then ask you, Mr. Alexandrov, and Mr. Mitev: You, by accepting yesterday the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, by accepting the state social security, by adopting today a number of budgets of ministries and so on, why all the way to art. 60 you set minimum wage 560 BGN.? How? What if he doesn't accept it? If you accept something else, what's wrong with your budget? Why are you telling me that I'm making some changes on the 198th page in 162nd and you're doing it from two laws to the third! So, a little logic! That's how budget procedure works, and that's how it works. If you think you're going to do something revolutionary, we made you an offer yesterday. 1 to be accepted after passing all proposals under the Law, but according to this logic you all the proposals you make in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, if any were not accepted, the first members. "Article 1 and 2, how would they go? Didn't you have to go back and fix them? These things you talk about, keep to yourself. And, Mr. Alexandrov, I hope you've taken a very careful look, because for everything else you've said, I absolutely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u263	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleagues, you misunderstand, especially, Mrs. Zhekova, you misunderstand my words, and you are getting too involved in the supporting points that you have drawn up. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] And I'll tell you why. I went out with a collegiate attitude and was well-meaning so I could explain it to you. You, as a lawyer, should know that you cannot rely on a hypothesis that has not happened. And not knowing a single piece of legislation, as is the Law on Laws and its implementation, does not mean that you can violate it. I have once again told you that it is not right every time the parliamentary tribune has to learn how legislation is done, how a text becomes a law. There are special laws. Sit down, read! I understand you want to scream from place to place, but come here, come here! Debate, don't destroy the dialogue! That's our call. We can be strong as a government when we have strong opposition! When you sit there screaming, we feel weak! Make us be strong! Give this power that we possess that we can show it here in real debate, in dialogue! As for my colleague, Gyokov, I am again focusing on this. Neither my child nor my friends my children know anyone who has done their child for financial or economic reasons! [[Radio.]] And none of them are going to make one for that reason next... [[Laughter]] Again, this is probably to Mrs. Zhekova because she emphasized that, you see, how bad we are, we want to drive the Bulgarians out of here, we want to leave a desert where nothing will develop, nothing will happen and we are some very big masochists who want to kill Bulgarian children! Mrs. Zhekova, you're very wrong! You're very wrong! Yes, you are! I also told you last time listen carefully, because my idea was to help you. If you do not want to be helped, as it is said: "Help yourself so that others can help you! " Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u264	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, before I speak under art. 62, which is interesting and became an argument over it already here, I must tell you that because of the fact that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova read a member, then we returned to another, we missed one very important point: art. 60, for the minimum wage and the debates on it, which were to be held here, because this is a very important moment. You offer 560 BGN, we offer 640 BGN. And on those £640. We're based on all of our further suggestions, and somehow we got him beat up, but I'm just gonna tell you that this pride...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u266	I asked if there were any speeches, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u267	That's true, but Mrs. Menda Stoyanova read Art. 1. Art. 59, then.................................................................................... 60, but I won't argue with that. All I'm saying is that you're saying 560 BGN. is a good raise on the minimum wage, and I claim that this is a mediocre raise, although it is a step in a good direction. And I can only tell you in support that Romanians are raising their minimum working...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u268	But let's talk about it. 62!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u269	Ma'am, I'm gonna pull my card because I have something to say on the article, but I have to justify my proposal, our proposal, which is based on this minimum wage, so I have to say what I'm about to say right now. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u270	Come on, tell me! Tell me, tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u271	I'm moving on. The Romanians will raise the minimum wage from January 1st to the equivalent of BGN 850, and the second minimum wage for people with higher education to nearly BGN 900. So much for minimum wage. I'm getting to art. 62, in which you freeze all social payments because it concerns the Family Aid Act for children. The only word to be said here is for the budget as a whole and for art. 62 is freezing. There is no objective criterion and mechanism for determining the income criterion that we need to establish with the budget, and it is an obligation under the Family Aid Act for children. It's 450. I think it's a relatively good, high criterion, but why 450? Why not 500? Why not 600? I think that at least it should be lifted slightly every year, so that no more people fall below the level and cannot take benefits. And I come to our proposal..... 6400 leva. for each second and third newborn child, when parents work, when parents are provided for working parents. There are fans of Hungary and Victor Orban all over the hall. Mr. Georgi Markov, I don't see him in the hall, but if he hears from somewhere, let him come and repeat what he said once from this tribune, talking about the demographic crisis for Viktor Orban and his program about how many thousands are given to a child, a family for a born child and so on. Then you all applauded him. Now, however, there is a proposal from the BSP - a whole new, sensible one - by analogy to the Hungarian programme. Here, for every newborn Bulgarian child and, notice, not even for the first child, because we rely on that the love of the Bulgarian child will make them make the first child, but the second and third children are questioned because in Bulgaria families do not reproduce. The average coefficient of reproduction is below 2, which means that we do not even retain the current composition of the Bulgarians. That is why we propose for a second and third child to be given 6400 leva. Up to £6,400. We didn't just reach the ceiling looking at them and we invented them. That is why I told you that we offer a minimum wage of 640 BGN, and this family assistance in the birth of a second and third child is 10 minimum wages. And so we'll record it when we come to power and rule the state, so we'll put it in family aid for children! [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]] Come on! Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u272	Noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! No, no, Mr. Gokov, not like that! Please! [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, but you don't! Not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u273	But I'm just like that, 'cause what goes around comes around! That's the fifth time I've said it... Help is what we offer and good. I would just like to call again Mr. Georgi Markov to come to explain to you why in Hungary such a way can be done with the budget, and in Bulgaria there can be no and you will not support it. And otherwise you rejoice and clap at Hungary's demographic and social policy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u274	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u275	Honourable Members, Madam President! I had no idea to speak. If there is a question in the budget that should unite us, especially with your part of the Chamber, this is the question of how to solve two problems.. how to give birth to more Bulgarians, and how these more Bulgarians to love Bulgaria, because maybe somewhere out there, in love, they will do wonders for it or at least stay here. We are currently offering you one of our measures - one of the measures to resolve the first issue. I've solved my personal question three times. For the first child there were 600 leva. I don't know why I got 200 for the second and the third. I don't know people like you who say they're making second and third kids to get money, but unfortunately I know people who tell me they don't make second and third kids because they don't have money! You know them, too! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Getting ten minimum salaries at the start of a life is much more important than getting ten salaries at the end of a career when you're an adult, when they help you fix your life at the beginning of old age, at the beginning of a pension, but agree that the moment you start this life is more important. I got the start of the second and third lives I created, 200 leva. Do you think a family can solve the starting questions of a child with these amounts? And I say again that this is part of the measures we are proposing. And for the finale, please stand up and give me the text of the Law on Laws that we have broken. There are no such acts. The bill as a bill until the complex factual composition for its creation, voting, promulgation and entry into force has not been carried out, is material and there are a number of Blanchette norms in it, and yes, once it enters into force, becomes a real fact. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u276	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? Here's a line. [[Noise and lines.]] I didn't limit your rights to a line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u277	(BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You'll wonder why I'm making a line about my colleague. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear Mr. Milkov, you are an extremely good and prepared lawyer, as there are many in this room, which I deeply respect, but I cannot help but say that you are missing something that is very important, and that is that legislation is a very complex process. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] And I don't think I invented it. When there is one problem that concerns many laws, perhaps this problem is at the beginning of one law, in another is in the middle, in the third is at the end, and then for solving this problem everyone holds from his point of view, with his proposals. That is why the National Assembly is here, in this Chamber, to hear all opinions. True, it's complicated, but the case of this complex orb, when solving the problem, happens with dialogue. I want this dialogue back in this room. And the problem, which is now, needs dialogue because, as colleagues say here, is very complicated and hardly with just one solution - money, finance, will be solved. That's why I'm making this line, perhaps a line, and an addition to what Mr. Milkov says, let's rebuild the dialogue in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u278	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Is there gonna be another line? Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Milkov, it will take me some time, perhaps you know him better than I do, but the Law on Laws says something very simple "that all acts and laws must comply with the Constitution, which therefore applies to the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of the National Assembly, one very simple thing is that each text is voted on by text and each law becomes a law when it passes two readings. If this thing is right enough, I'm reproducing the text. Therefore, when we look at this text in the way it is proposed, we can be mistakenly misguided that the reference is not correct enough. That is why it was my speech, which, however, gave rise to the correct explanation in Mr. Gokov, but not by Mrs. Zhekova. That's what I objected to. Praise your children, bless you! I hope we can all brag about so much that we can do more. I also do not want to see people who do not have a second and third child for economic reasons. I can't bend my soul to say there aren't any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u280	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Third line please, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u281	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Milkov, perhaps...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u282	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u283	I don't think there's any more need to explain whether we're doing, what we're doing or what we're not following. You should explain it to all MPs, there is no mistake, but even if there is some mistake, the question is principled and do we want to do something good for demographics in Bulgaria or not. I'm not saying we're going to solve the problem of demography with these 6400 levs. And I'm not saying that they're gonna start having babies tomorrow because of those £6,400. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] Here, the whole room, should we think about doing something in this direction? [[Heckling]] I want you to ask these people in your backyard who replicate you, and most of all, who call out from the hall, I'm not going to determine how, what are they doing about demographics? How they admire Victor Orban, for the fifth time I say it, and glorify him even from the stands of the National Assembly, and suddenly, when you propose something like that, just because you are an opposition, they reject him. That's what you ask them. What else can we talk about?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u284	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Milkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u285	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I want to tell you that I am happy because this debate has silenced the House. Indeed, the question is extremely important. I am absolutely confident that we are looking for a solution together because really timely and properly the government entrusted to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, this is our research potential at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, an analysis of the question: where have we reached down the track and how can the Bulgarian nation be preserved and revived? My colleagues referred to the research the government commissioned and ordered. We think it's true because that's where the data is given by professors we respect. But say: why is the procedure, our dispute about what the Law of Laws rules, whether we have the wrong 6 or 6a, the reason why you do not support us? Why? Being in charge of the second budget now, this is only my second state budget, which I am attending, you are also here, propose your measures in this direction...................... and radical, different, innovative. It's not just Hungary. What about Poland? It's a formal right-hand drive. We've been there, I've been writing down laws to offer you. They are from the right-wing government, but essentially with our philosophy of housing for young families, for money when children are born, for loans. So our proposal is part of a lot. Your interpretation, improperly apropos, of the Law on Legislative Acts, cannot be a reason not to support us. Once again, I invite you to support this proposal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u286	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Will there be a statement, Mrs. Lecheva? Last one, Mrs. Lecheva, and we're heading for the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u287	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, only these measures cannot overcome the demographic crisis and the demographic catastrophe. For the Deputy Prime Minister, who was responsible for demographic policy, who is already in the National Assembly, we have seen the success he has achieved back in the National Assembly and is no longer responsible. And the mothers gave their mark. Of course, it is a comprehensive, consistent policy and depends mostly on the economic situation of the country. But, as you can see, in the last 10 years, the results are mostly worsening in terms of income, social inequality and that Bulgaria is the poorest country. What you said at the time, what made our parents have more children died when children were born and when people worked and lived only for causes. The weather is different now, dear Mr. Simeonov. People no longer work for causes, work for prosperity, and commercialism, which is in today's society, forces them to work and think about incomes. However, leaving them in the last place on income, we can't help but challenge the debate on child support, maternity aid, health care aid, and so on. And because you have taken precisely these two specific measures, one additional measure that we offer for the students mothers, for those mothers who receive BGN 2,800 today, and we update this measure with BGN 6400. You obviously did not get acquainted with our overall proposal for an alternative budget, not only in terms of social benefits, but the alternative budget, which showed a new policy and other attitude towards the way funds are allocated and the economic development of the state. Don't just look at the social commitments that we have and want to implement and implement, but in terms of economic development, because the economic growth that you are offering us is extremely insufficient to implement the policy in order to keep the young people in Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u288	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your special attention to my personality. I see she didn't go unnoticed at the post of Deputy Prime Minister. I see nothing wrong with the Deputy Prime Minister becoming the MP for which he is elected by his constituents. It's nothing to be ashamed of! I come to the conclusion that you're experiencing some complexes of this, but essentially. Again, it is not good to engage in a topic spontaneously, episodeally and superficially. The issue of birth and demography is very serious, deep. The only rational thing I have heard in your speeches so far was that you agree to set up a group to discuss this issue, which will involve representatives of all parliamentary groups, because the issue is serious, complex and requires very serious unity and uniform solutions to produce results. However, in no case is the issue of birth rate solved by tossing in the budget of sums ten times, twenty times. Why it has to be exactly ten times, you won't be able to answer me. After quoting the example of other countries, it is 30 thousand in Hungary. Euros, 10,000. The dollar is in Russia, 250 euros per month for every child is in Poland, but nowhere have these measures given clear, clear results, unfortunately. [[Heckling]] They didn't! You will excuse me, but I do not agree with the fact that there are results in Hungary. For Poland, not to mention, because a large part of Poland's society does not accept these measures, along with loans to rent housing, the construction of free housing at the expense of the state. All this much of Polish society takes as a form of destruction, and the state even. But it's a completely different, separate subject, for them to get better. With Russia, the situation is no different, although this measure has been applied for many years, to encourage by 10,000. The dollar. So tossing such measures for me has no meaning but a populist demonstration of concern for birth rates, on the one hand, and on the other hand, an attempt to blow the budget, to sabotage the budget. That is it. This is what you are doing right now. If you have a serious attitude, let's sit down and discuss these things. There is no resonant in what you're proposing because, again, there is no direct link. And you stated it, Mr. Milkov also that there is no direct connection with the amount that is determined for a child and the direct birth rate. Mrs. Jeleva's. I have to tell you: I'm a man of substance and I'm a bit of a coincidence in politics, I've owned several companies since 1992. It's successful, very successful, but there's no such thing as another MP here to advertise every speech. Personally, I make a serious commitment to $20,000. £400. I'll give it to you for three childbirths in a row. Let's see how long it takes you to get that money. [[Laughter and applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u290	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Let's vote. Mr. Stoinev, do we have any lines? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u291	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I am also impressed by some things you have done as Deputy Prime Minister. I'm also disappointed in a lot of things, but I'm not your judge, I can't judge you. Let people judge how good a deputy prime minister you have been and how not, but I am telling you that I am really impressed with some initiatives that you have adopted, including in demographic policy, because I have asked you a few questions about how you think and how we are going? If you noticed, yesterday, when Mr. Angelov took the initiative here for unity or for synergies in demographic policy issues, I, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, expressed an extraordinary agreement and said that once and for all the problem should be solved how we will go in demographic policy in order not to wander one way and offer financial incentives, another......................................................... I mentioned it yesterday, and now I'm going to tell you. Don't think of it as ironic what I'm about to tell you. The last ninth section is dedicated to demographic policy. There we offer our initial views and gather more ideas so that we can move forward. Let your parliamentary group, because I see that you resent this demographic disaster, to get acquainted with this vision. Don't think it's ironic. Let's go ahead. As for your latest proposal to Mrs. Jeleva, if you can offer it to more Bulgarian women, there will probably be someone to take advantage of this proposal, otherwise it does not work individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u292	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u293	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, now that your street is swept away when we rule tomorrow [[noise and shouting from GERB and OP]] , know that this will be one of our 39 measures that we have pointed out in the vision to combat the demographic catastrophe. Now, Mr. Simeonov, just point out your alternative measures and don't put things off for round tables, just say them. [[(Applause from Bravo!) (Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Svilenski, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u295	Thank you, Madam President, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I have a feeling that you can't last a week without making a scandalous statement. Somehow it won't be you if you don't throw away some controversial and scandalous statement. How could you not be ashamed to make this proposal to any Member of the National Assembly?! Why exactly did you choose the coworker, why exactly 20,000? lv.? Do you ask yourself what you did with this proposal? No, right? And you don't even understand it. That's too bad. [[Noise and shout in O.R.]] Mr. Simeonov, the problem of your management is that everything in your heads is money.. money, power and posts. [[Noise and shouts in GERB and OP, partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why 6,000? BGN, why not 10,000? $20,000, why not $20,000? The dollar? But give me $2,000. lv. People want to see that the state stands behind this policy, that the state supports the young, that the state supports this fight against demographics. It's all in your head, no matter what the amount. Say 6500, there are not 400, it will be 3200 BGN, but to see these young people in Bulgaria that someone thinks about them. You're ridiculously giving away $20,000 here. lv. Whether you can help all Bulgarians who need those 20,000. Lev?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u296	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u297	Mr. Svilensky, if it was all money in my head, I wouldn't be here. I've left my own business, I've left my companies to come here and try to do something. [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] in the direction of my beliefs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u298	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u299	However, this is the second time I've heard about money, power and positions in the stands by a representative of your party. The previous statement I did not forget, was again on the occasion of some discussion, was by the chairman of your parliamentary group. Ugly, nasty! We don't think like you do. Ask yourself what is important to you? I'm going to unite my ass in the lines. Someone said they were gonna sweep me off the street. It's gonna be hard for me to get 50 screamers, very hard. It's not gonna happen, it's not gonna happen! [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Furthermore, I have no concerns, I have proved that I have no concerns about whether I will take up a post or not, whether I will be in the National Assembly or not. It is much more important for me to be what I like to be honest and honest. If you like it, it's your problem. There was, I can't remember, is it you, Miss, or Mr. Gokov, it doesn't matter, but what I did? Yeah, I'll tell you. The real measures in the direction of demography, which I have carried out in my capacity as responsible Deputy Prime Minister, were that, as early as the first month after my inauguration, we managed with the work of several ministries to change the Regulation on the rules on labour migration and mobility and opened the Bulgarian market for access to Bulgarians from third countries. Maybe you didn't understand it here, driven by your legislative activity. For the second year... [[Noise and laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u300	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u301	Why is there laughter if you're interested in that question? He's important, he's connected to demographics. This year 7800 thousand Bulgarians came to work and saved for the second consecutive year the tourist season in the summer, winter too. Yeah, that's the same thing. The opening and the release, easing the regime for obtaining the single card, was the result of the work of six ministries for four or five months. These changes are also made and prepared in my office. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's also a demographic. And if you don't understand this, don't shout, I can point out to you that the positive results of Hungary, Poland, are due precisely to the attraction of third-country nationals, to other countries, a million in Poland, a little less than a million in Hungary. Thus, the most rapid solution to the demographic problem is because it is also related to a lack of labour for the Bulgarian economy. These two questions must be linked together and solved jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u302	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 148 MPs: 55 against 67, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 62, which the Commission supports. Vote 151 MPs: 94 against 57 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u303	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 63, Art. 86 no proposals from Members of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the members from 63 to 86 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u304	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer as Members 63 to 86 including those supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u305	They voted 146 MPs: 97, against 46, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u306	Under art. 87 there is a proposal of the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Atanas Stoyanov. The Commission supports the text. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 87: Art. 87. For the financing of projects of municipalities for the reclamation of municipal depots which do not comply with the regulatory requirements and subject to the implementation of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 16 July 2015 in Case C-145/14 in connection with infringement of art. 14 of Directive 1993/31/EC on the disposal of waste, on the basis of a decision of the Management Board of the Environmental Action Management Organisation (EIA), funding may be granted on the basis of expenditure actually incurred to municipalities in the PUP budget of up to 70 million. lv. on the account of the transitional remainder of the undertaking agreed with the Minister of Finance, without prejudice to the balance of the consolidated fiscal programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u307	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 87 proposed by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 97 against 42, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u308	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 88, Art. 95 there are no proposals from MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 88 to 95 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u309	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts by importer of Articles 88 to 95, including those supported by the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 96 against 39 abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u310	Under art. 96 there is a proposal from the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs to acquire the following version: Art. Art. 96 (1) The provision of Art. 96 (1) 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act for the Sustainability of the State Pension System does not apply to revenue from initial concession remuneration under the contract for the award of a concession for construction of the site. (2) Part of the funds received from an initial concession fee under the contract for the award of a concession for the construction of the site "Citizen's airport for public use Sofia "public state property' shall be spent as follows: 1. BDZ Holding SAD to repay temporary financial assistance in total of 196,657,8 thousand. lv. 2. For repayment of debts of BDZ Holding EAD to the National Railway Infrastructure Company at total amount of 89 008,7 thousand. lv. 3. National Railway Infrastructure (Railway Infrastructure) is a global payment of temporary financial assistance of 213 000 000,0 thousand. lv. (3) The funds under para. 2 are planned in the central budget. (4) The funds under para. 2 shall be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications up to the amount of the requested. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u311	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u312	Dear colleagues, once again we are looking at a proposal concerning the concessionation of Sofia Airport. As you know, the BSP has always been against and expressed its firm position against the concession at the airport. We will not support this proposal by fellow Members with the clear awareness that this is yet another attempt to circumvent the Privatization Act and post-privatization control that we have just recently commented on and once again manipulate the revenues from this concession if it happens. We cannot support this proposal, moreover, to the detriment of state social security and cannot under any circumstances be supported by us in this part of it. We strongly and once again oppose the concessionation of the airport Sofia and specifically the proposal made under art. 96. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u313	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a matter of fact, the proposal we made existed as a proposal in the budget last year. I'll replicate Mr. Danchev. I understand his motives and motives of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, only then we did not agree, and now we will not agree with the first suggestion that the word "concession" is a bad concept or this instrument that is used, we have managed to fill it from the parliamentary tribune with as much negative content as it does not deserve the concept itself. I have repeatedly said that whether a concession is good or not depends on how protected public interest is. When the public interest is not protected, the concession is not good as an instrument, it is not good as behaviour. When we have examples that a concession has developed relevant sites, if you will services such as airports in Burgas and Varna, which are also concessionated, and it has proved that they work well, to name a priori before something happens, that it is bad without seeing the indicators without assessing that what is happening is positive is incorrect. It would not be a good concession if the public interest had not been retained. Yes, when a procedure has been walked all this way, when all the parameters are preserved and they are in the public interest and the national interest is preserved, what is the bad in this case? The second thing that's been done in this story. Either way, this procedure is going to go.. whether it will happen or not only time will tell. But if it happens, we want to say: there will be revenue and the initial revenues to go back to the transport sector, to go where we all talk about investing and to work, namely the state railways. The proposals that were previously received no support. We said this would go bankrupt as a policy anyway. We need to find a way to solve this issue, but with opposition here, this is not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u315	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Another line? You have the floor, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Letifov, I do not know why you have decided that BSP claims that the concession as a whole is a bad thing. We argue that where this type of public-private partnership is being made, this must happen in a state-friendly way. When we have a profitable enterprise for the State, it is not logical to grant it to a concession. Yes, why not make a concession, can anyone answer the question why not make a concession a new airport? Somewhere else, somewhere else, a private operator to build it, use it for a certain number of years and transfer it to the state. It is a form of concession and it works successfully in many places around the world. So we oppose this type of concession, which is practically a plunder of state property, of profitable state property. Moreover, the revenues you are talking about do not agree in any way to be given and to oppose the development of state railways. It is undisputed that the state railways need modernization, new rolling stock, but in no case should this be done at the expense of Sofia airport. Moreover, we are of the opinion that the Bulgarian State Railways are incompetently managed and pouring more money into this unreformed system is money in the wind lost for the state money once again. We are against this and therefore will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u317	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is not us, but people ask us, first, what requires the airport to be granted a concession and this question we have raised it from the stand, given that Sofia Airport is a profitable undertaking. For 2016 there are two million passengers and for 2017 there are two million passengers. 6 million, which is an increase of 4 million. It's obviously functioning very well. We have repeatedly asked what requires the airport to be granted a concession for nearly 50 years. This is also our concern that we have expressed here, and please bear in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u319	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Kirilov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday we wondered where the pension money would come from. I turn to the right side: and why are we voting today on this pension money to go for another purpose? How will you vote? What are we doing in art. 96? We want to get the pension money out, not get into the Silver Fund and go to the Ministry of Transport, which in turn will cover some loans worth around 400 million. That is, the Ministry will go to the national budget and then how they will be spent no one knows whether by decree of the Council of Ministers or something else. Colleagues, I'm mostly addressing you on the right side. I want you to answer me how you are going to vote now, and how you will respond to your voters for 300 BGN. How are you going to tell them there's no money? The money's here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u321	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues, of course, that BSP is not against concessionation, but not about everything that is state-owned, profitable. The colleague Danchev correctly said: there are enough things that need to be developed that require investment. Here is proposed concessionation of the debate, we have already led it dozens of times, perhaps something that is profitable, of something that is developed, of something that cannot be explained to normal Bulgarian citizens why it is done, except the only explanation for 500 million being transferred to BDZ. However, this money, this resource, Sofia airport, is not BDZ. It is not the Minister of Transport, it is not the government, it belongs to the whole of Bulgaria, it belongs to all Bulgarian citizens. And there is no way you and I, Mr. Letifov, or anyone else, can say that we are taking this 500 million from Sofia Airport and giving it to BDZ because BDZ has problems. We're not the people who're gonna do this. Lawmakers before us have said: the money from concessions goes to the Silver Pension Fund. What gives each of us the right to deprive the Bulgarian pensioners of this money? There's a management program, there's a government, there's a majority to run the country so that they can find the money to finance the companies that are in trouble. What does Sofia airport have to do with BDZ? If someone gives me an answer to that question, maybe I'll reconsider my positions. And once again, I use to clearly state BSP's position on this issue. We are not against concessionation in general, but we are strongly against concessionation at Sofia airport. And we're gonna do everything we can to keep this thing from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u323	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. The line, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Slivensky, I understand your position and to some extent she is responsible. However, one thing we have distracted from the debate so far that a priori concession is not a negative thing. The whole procedure must be followed to see if it is profitable and whether public interest is preserved. We kind of distracted him, and I think it's the right thing to do. Secondly, we say that this procedure is going well. She's open right now. The deadline for candidates to submit documents and so on is extended. In this process, other than being observers and controlling, there's nothing else. But we say, if that happens, the means that will come to focus in an area where problems can be solved and say: yes, this transport, the railway, is a priority. We don't say that. At the same time, we react populist by telling people: do not support this thing, the bad thing, the concession, because you will be left without pensions. Do you say that if you enter the 550 million, which, notice, are an advance, one-off payment, pensions will rise to 300 leva. It's manipulation. It's not gonna happen. That's not true. If with this one-off payment we will solve all the problems of the pension system, with a deficit system of several billion, I would agree with you. But what's being done is populism. We're planting some negative suggestions that won't do what we have as a good wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u325	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u326	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Svilensky, my line is to you because you obviously couldn't explain what it was about, so it was the line from my colleague at the DPS. At the moment we are not discussing whether there should be a concession, because this is the subject of another conversation. We're discussing where the money goes if there's a concession. The important thing in this case is that this money must enter the Silver Fund, because that is the principle. This airport was built and when these assets were to enter the Silver Fund, it is recognition to all those generations before us who built them, which created these assets and now the price of these assets must be some guarantee for their pensions. This is what you had to explain to make it clear to people, because at the moment, with the decision being proposed in the budget, it means that we will take some money that could be about pensions and which are an element of our policy and the recalculation of pensions and the increase of the minimum pension, and this is part of the complex. This money will go to cover the thefts, to cover a bad BDZ policy at the cost of all those who can get and have pensions from them. That's what you should have explained, not something else. In practice, whether or not there were thefts, the fact that the BDZ management was released, the suspension of orders that had to be made for rolling stock, all of which we would have to pay it with some money that could have gone for social needs. That's what you should have explained, that's why we're against it. I guess you'll be able to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u327	You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Letifov, you are right, with 500 million we will not solve the problem of the pensioners. You're absolutely right! But we're opening a door from now on not a single lev of privatization and concession deals to go into that fund. Because here will always be found MPs, who will be from the sector....... Transport.. or something else will find the necessary lobbyists in parliament to write in the Budget Act that this money will go for it............................. because the money must be spent for something else. So before we do, people have decided what they should be for. They won't decide. The question here is, why only the first 50 million? Because maybe the others won't come after that. Who's gonna vouch for that? You say, "Let's see what happens, but when we lose the airport what to watch, it's over. We'll see they don't pay or we'll see they don't make a third track. Okay, we'll cancel under the contract, but it's very difficult with penalties, and we're going into a completely different conversation. But the question is: why do we proceed to these measures, to these ways of management of state property? I'm glad you came, Mr. Goranov. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Let's say Mr. Goranov: what is the connection between BDZ and Sofia Airport? What's the connection? [[Heckling]] Yes, he's right, Mr. Ermenkov has an incompetent management in BDZ. Now will the entire state be held hostage on this board, who has resigned and who has no one to accept his resignation for three weeks? Because it is clear that it has led the company to bankruptcy. Because it is clear that it has led the company to no locomotives and the wagons to stay at the station. Because it is clear that it has led the company to start the locomotives and to have nothing to pull out the remaining active wagons. Does all of Bulgaria have to pay for this? Is Sofia Airport supposed to pay for the incompetent management instead of getting together and changing their management? [[Noise and lines.]] They're still holding them and standing?! I'm very interested in the position of the Patriots. Because, dear Patriots, you claimed in your statements two, three, four years ago that you were against the concession at Sofia Airport. Now we'll see... [[Relations from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] You are very comfortable when there is a particular occasion: which Patriots? Well, the left side of the Patriotic Front, viewed from the right side. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Which Patriots?! You're Patriots, you're United Patriots, aren't you? If you're not united to talk only about the Patriots? So one of you should go out and say what your opinion on the concession at Sofia airport imposed? We understand about pensions because you are not self-governing, but for Sofia Airport what prevents you from being against it? Who makes you change your mind on the move? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u329	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov, for a personal explanation. [[People representatives Georgi Svilenski and Halil Letifov shake hands.]] After the handshake, does it follow a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u330	Mr. Svilensky apologized to me. I take Mr. Svilensky's attitude as an apology. But thank you for the care that the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to the State Railway, and for all sectors that are important and are part of the national economy, you take as lobbying. Yes, we are lobbying, but in the same way we are caring for both the pension system and the pensioners in the country. In this regard, we are lobbyists, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you for your evaluation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u331	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. You have the floor now, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[The National Representative Iskren Veselinov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] The way you're leading it?! Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u332	Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much, when there are obvious untruths in the stands of the National Assembly, to make remarks. The colleague repeatedly explains some position of the Patriots against concessions. We've never made such a claim. For the concessions we have attacked, there were specific reasons to attack, and I think there is no change there. With regard to this, if any particular political party in its political biography has had similar global views, please mention the specific party, colleagues. Don't talk to Angro and don't try to globalize...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u333	How should I react, Mr. Vesselinoff?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u334	Make a remark to them, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u335	According to my powers, I'm doing this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u336	Because BSP's lies have become very rude, repeating themselves continuously and generally, this Goebbels principle of the thousandfold repetition of a lie is already starting to burn.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u337	Mr. Vesselinoff, please! Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u338	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Almost everything has been said.. the arguments in one direction and the other. The only thing I would like to add in my speech, as far as possible, of course, is some clarity on the issue of public interest. As a cornerstone argument in Mr. Letifov's statement was that when the concession is in favour of the public interest, it has no and cannot have any arguments against similar economic instruments. [[Noise and lines.]] The public interest is not to develop the activity. The activity can be developed as a result of the concession and an undertaking can become thriving. There's no doubt about it. Let's not forget that these business structures, companies, holding companies and so on, form a profit that is distributed according to the shares of the owners, and in the case of the concession contracts. There is no guarantee of the start of these concessions in the future, as unfortunately shows, the negative economic practice of our republic in recent decades. The problem is not whether there are concessions or no concessions, the problem is that the proceeds from concession fees in the Bulgarian state can be clearly seen what they are in different areas not only in the field of transport, but in the mining industry and so on. Since so far we have basically negative experience, what are those arguments that can make us believe that this concession will be protected from the point of view of public interest when we do not even define at the moment who is the public interest? If the public interest is with one state company and the concession fees from it to be financed into another, which has led to bankruptcy, as my colleagues have said, this is not a public interest. It is encouraging other actions that have specific names and which I think the state should not encourage. Therefore, in no way in a concession whether it has developed its activities can be called a public interest. The public interest requires the State to earn, to put into funds, so that it can redistribute through these funds to those activities for which the State or its institutions entrusted with this activity judge. That's the public interest. Otherwise, this airport can function wonderfully in the coming years, in which it will be concessionable, not a single lev not to enter the state and we all know how this thing works. Is that a protected public interest? Of course not. And with regard to the position of other political parties, I am convinced that the President of the Parliamentary Group of..... is consistent in his position with regard to concessions. Here all other arguments also have no particular value, because he reminded us only a week ago of this tribune with a serious work, as he called it, the position of [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Please help Mr. Ivanov find the right place in the hall! In this sense, the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not a protection of public interest at all. This is a continuation of another practice. There's no point in us going down that road. And the Minister of Finance is in the Chamber, listening carefully to what this is about. If it continues to be so distinguished by its reasonable attitude towards public finances and responsible economic policy, there is no way to support such proposals. And the government can't guarantee what's going on in BDZ, as we've seen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u339	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. There are three lines. First Mr. Ivanov, second Mr. Kirilov, and third Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, 10% or 15 million is the guaranteed revenue of the state per year from this concession. What was that all about? Have you even read this contract to speak on it? I guess you didn't. First read the contract, then talk and deceive the hall, please, Mr. Zablyanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u341	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Zablyanov, I would like to read you an excerpt from the newspaper "Capital" with a request to comment on it. The excerpt is as follows: In 2005 the competition committee headed by the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport Nikolay Vassilev chose the Danish Competition Commission. The other two participants, including the consortium between the German airport operator Meanwhile, the government changed and the transport minister became Petar Mutafchiev. After a few months of delay, the winner became the "Fraport Twin Star Airport Management." My question is this. You said that: "This is a completely negative practice, the concession is a failure." My request is to comment on the concession at these two airports. I would merely suggest that the further analysis of "Capital' is entirely in favour of this concession by comparing the profits of the concession holders, which only if it is taxed with profit, will be equal to the profits of Sofia airport. [[Noise and lines.]] Isn't that weird? And do you deny your transport minister who made these two concession contracts to know the man? Thank you. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Yes, let's talk about other major airports that have been concessionated in the package of Varna Airport and Sofia Airport. I'm sorry if I wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u343	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Jablyanov! Thank you for the lines of colleagues before me, because the government's job is to protect the concession offer or the procedure that is going on. But I cannot agree with the suggestions you have made, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[Heckling]] First, yes, if there is going to be such a contract, you need to see what it says as indicators and what will be achieved, and a priori we give the assessment that this is negative, there is no way I can agree with you. The presumption that when we pour some funds into a sector that is not really reformed is that we are talking about rail transport, that we are sending these millions there and they will be stolen, that is not the purpose of what we are debating today. And what happens, there are other organs that have to get to work and they have to say if there's a violation there and who's guilty. There are institutions where this is their job, Mr. Zablyanov. We don't redeploy public interest, tax revenues with the assumption that someone will then steal them. If that's the idea, that's pathetic! It's very wrong to reason, unfortunately. I don't accept the way you put it. The idea of protecting a company with 130 years of history, and developing it, we sincerely support. But how are we going to do that? We have repeatedly said that all sectors need to be reformed, that pouring funds into unreformed sectors is a risk, but in this case we say a priori that they will be stolen, there are institutions to come in and say who is guilty and what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u345	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u346	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is obvious that the truth of this discussion will be put into the years of operation at the airport that are coming. We won't get to the final answer here today. I hope we can have this conversation again. I hope things are what the importers expect of these changes. On the issue of guaranteed revenues from the concession, Mr. Ivanov. Revenues cannot be guaranteed by any concession contract, they are obtained from the profits of others. You may have ten concession contracts to guarantee your income and when the company's profits do not provide them, you will get nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u347	We're shutting down the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u348	Ah, we're canceling the contract. Yeah, okay. That's what I thought we'd hear. The question that Mr. Letifov raised about the unreformed companies. If so, I am even more perplexed by your proposal, as you clearly realize that it is an unreformed company. The question that was asked by Mr. Kirilov. See, when BSP participates in the executive power with ministers, it has also suffered political and other responsibility for the actions it has taken in the executive power, as a party, as an economic and other philosophy. We can hardly deny or support former ministers from this tribune. I don't think that's the purpose of today's conversation. Do concessions work in Varna and Burgas? I am not a narrow specialist in this sector, but what anyone who has ever had any contact will tell you that there were no new facilities built there when they were conceited. The Sofia airport was built on Terminal 2 in particular, by the Bulgarian state. I don't see the point of this concession, probably not ten years after the facility was completed. As far as the current practice is concerned. Anyone who has touched on this topic here I cannot be more competent than Mr. Siderov will explain to you what the practice of the Bulgarian state is, the successes in the concessionation and the revenues for the past decades. It's not a matter here of my own personal feeling, it's a matter of bills. When it opens, you'll see what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u349	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Statements? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the topic of concession at Sofia Airport. With this topic for more than a year the Bulgarian Socialist Party speculates, frightens the Bulgarian people and fears that Bulgaria will almost lose through Sofia airport, its sovereignty and will deprive itself of revenue. We are speaking not politically, but specifically on the subject. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] For three years, said Mr. Svilensky, planted these fears. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. When we talk about the concession, first of all, and follow all 30 years of transition, we need to be aware that at the time the distention took place in the first 20 years, mainly through the so-called "criminal privatization" and through public-private partnerships. All observers unanimously wrote, said in serious materials that these two forms of distribution have actually damaged both state and municipal interests. Nowhere in those forms did the state or the municipalities win. I can give examples, but I don't want to politicize. The only form of distribution around the world that guarantees the state brings revenue and they are laid down in the specific contracts with which people appear at a competition is the concession. I must tell you right away that 75% of European and global airports are managed by concession, I am talking about world, European, major airports. In very few cases we have mixed government between state and concessionaire and in very few cases smaller airports, municipalities, conglomerates of municipalities or state. A magnificent report was given here by the former minister Mr. Moskovski. You obviously didn't hear it or you don't want to hear it, or you're not comfortable hearing it. Everything is set out in the draft contract itself, according to which people will appear in competition for this concession. Some of the most serious European companies are applying. Absolutely, when we talk about national security, it should be clear to everyone here that there are people working in this area that national security is infinitely protected. No one can land on the elk, it is absolutely public government property. Without RVD's decision, no one can land and take off, which means there's no way we can lose that control. The transit regime as customs, such as border police and all services that work now and in the future remain in place and guarantee state control. The concessionaire benefits only from airport charges and ground handling and is not linked to this control and national security guarantee. Will there be income on this? In the competition contract it was clearly and categorically stated. We currently have about six million airlines per year. The net profit of the state taxed, i.e. the company, is currently around 10 million a year. These are numbers that anyone can check. The concession foresees the following. First, 700.800 million is the one-off fee to be paid to the State, after which you have the annual profit 15 million.. guaranteed, or a percentage of the fees if they exceed that 15 million, that is, the higher profit for the State will be obtained according to this percentage. Probably 15 million at least, or if airport charges develop and become more than 15 million, they will be in the company's revenue, respectively, of the State. From then on, in the contract, you know that these big applicants will come here with their partners. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So, civil flights, from then on, when we go through cargo flights, they will have an account to develop so that they can profit from these fees. In this situation, the income of the state is guaranteed...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u351	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u352	...plus a few billion in infrastructure, over 10 million. Passengers need a second runway, need new terminals. In 30 years we will have a European developed airport. And remember that just a few hours away from the other side of the Black Sea was built one of the largest airports in the world. If we do not develop the Sofia airport, this traveler will go to land on the other side of the Black Sea. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So national and financial security are protected. Stop scaring people into believing they don't have that information!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u353	Any lines to Mr. Gurnevsky? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gurnevski, a little by the numbers and by the profits you are talking about, because it has become clear from your statement that you are not at all aware of the threat to national security by granting a concession or the financial results. The question is not whether they will enter, as some twenty unverified passengers are currently entering, because this can also happen with the concessionaire, as you said, the question is about the site as is Sofia Airport, and is it an object of national security? You're not denying he's an object of national security, are you? [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]] We're not talking about whether she's in danger or not. By the way, the subject right now is the budget and it is not the place to talk about it at all. That is why we wanted Parliament to rule on this subject and this debate to happen here before the decision was made, but then you did not listen to us. The profit at Sofia Airport is currently 13 million, not ten. What you have foreseen is a minimum of fifteen, only that, apart from this 13 million, until last year, Sofia airport was paying in a lost case, I think about 7 million per year, that is, the 13 million is not thirteen, but twenty, because of this year they will no longer pay them. By putting the incompetent management of Sofia airport in recent years, when you bought a second-hand fire department for one million and it still does not know where it is and is not used, the profit can also become 5 million from such management, it can become 3 million. We are talking here about a management that is responsible, professionally, which protects the Bulgarian interest. If it protects the interest of any parts of the Bulgarian society, it will not happen, it is clear that, but then we have to give the state a concession, the government must give a concession to make sure that there will be no thefts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u355	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I won't. Mr. Gurnevsky's denture? You refuse. Mr. Ermenkov, a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u356	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank the previous speaker for the first time speaking on the substance and not trying to involve communism and Bulgaria's past in such a topic. Thank you very much. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I mean it, I mean it. I'm not saying it with a prank. So to speak, it will be really good. Now I want to bring you back to the subject. The topic today is not whether to grant a concession airport Sofia or not to be granted a concession. Let me read you what we're voting on so we know what we're talking about. Vote art. 96 of the State Budget Act, in which it is written: 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System does not apply to revenue from initial concession remuneration under the contract for the award of a concession for construction of the site. If we have to translate what art. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law, which I quoted, is that revenue should be entered into this concession fund. That means that's what we're talking about right now. We are discussing whether, if this airport is granted a concession, the money will not enter the Silver Fund. We are discussing whether this text will allow 500 million Bulgarian pensioners to be stolen. That's what we're discussing right now, nothing else. Whether 500 million will be stolen from the Bulgarian pensioners, and then we will explain to them that there is no money for Christmas allowances for everyone, that there is no money to update, that there is no money to recalculate because we have decided that 500 million will not enter this fund, but to go somewhere else. Perhaps the next step will be because the Bulgarian pensioners are very patient, to make in the next budget a decision to cut the Fund in half and the money to go for something else. This time, not only will there be no money to enter the Silver Fund, but to take money from the Silver Fund when we have a shortage of other finances. And if you think that this is a normal attitude towards a small part of the Bulgarian population, whose pensions should be guaranteed precisely through this fund, it is not for a reason called the "Sustainability Fund" of the pension system, and that 500 million leva is little money that can just be stolen, not to enter this fund, vote in favour of this text from the state budget! We will vote against! We will vote against for two reasons: the first reason you know it, our attitude towards conceiting a special airport Sofia, but I will not stop at this because, as I said, this is not the topic of today's debate. We are against because this money, which must come or will come from a concession, if it is allowed and is implemented successfully and does not follow the way of the concession at Plovdiv Airport, to enter the Silver Fund where they belong, where they will guarantee pensions, where they will ensure the sustainability of a pension system for which you, the managers, claim there is not enough money. That is why we will vote against to prevent the theft of 500 million leva from the Bulgarian pensioners! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u357	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u358	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! I can agree with much of your speech, but I cannot agree with one fragment. It's not that we take, we do something even worse: we violate principles, legislation, sustainability of the state system. And I'm going to translate things for you with a very simple example. Once the smart people of the state, our fellow MPs, the whole country, have decided that all revenues from concessions in the state are entered into a Silver Fund that guarantees the sustainability of this system, of the system that can receive a shock not only from the increase, updating of pensions or so on. And here we make one exception again. If we start with these exceptions, know that not only the first money that comes from concessions will not go in there, perhaps from now on a lot of money will not be able to enter the Silver Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u359	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u360	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, you are absolutely right that this is an anti- - come on I will not use the word constitutionally because I am not the one who gives the characteristics of constitutionality of a solution, but it is not normal in an already established system of laws to make exceptions. But it seems to me that this is not the first exception, unfortunately, there have been others so far for money that has not entered the Silver Fund not to say that there was money that came from the Silver Fund in the past. I therefore call again: let us stop this wicked practice, let us return to the law! The Law explicitly states: the money goes from concessions to the Silver Fund, the Fund for guaranteeing the sustainability of the pension system! Any other decision that we will make now will be contrary to common sense, because, once again, I remind you, this fund was created because when everything was state property and it was done with the labor of the people and it belonged to the people, with the changing of the system, so that this work could be recognised to the people, it had to be the money from the sale and concessions of this state property to enter into this fund to guarantee these people their pension! And now we're about to steal, I say again, I repeat the word to steal, 500 million from these people! If it gives you the heart to do it, support this article, we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u361	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u362	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're looking at the budget of the Ministry of Transport. It is apparent from the budget of the Ministry of Transport on page 32 that the obligations that BDZ has are paid to creditors by decree of the Council of Ministers and from the budget for 2018. There they are! These 500 million leva, which will go after the concession eventually at the Ministry of Transport, will remain for disposal, will return to the budget of the Ministry of Finance and the government. I mean, what's clear here? That there will be a comparative surplus that will be expressed how.. as always before Christmas.. Mom, Dad and I. That's what I'm talking about first. Secondly, we can't fail to say strategically how things are. Honourable Members, the issue is not political to the left or right. Is it true that the banking system of Bulgaria 75% is under foreign control, the assets? Is it true that electricity, including, of course, water and other activities, the underground fossils of Bulgaria are under whose control are foreign? Any State that gives something to a concession makes a common balance of its assets, what controls the State. We have left after the two airports the main airport Sofia. We will remain foreigners in our own country, giving all possible assets of concessions! That is the problem, not that the concession cannot be effective. These forms used in different countries are, of course, proven to be effective in many countries, but not only in this matter. Here we are talking about strategic choices and about the budget whether to give 500 million gifts to the government's budget to be freely available next year! Such an approach is absolutely unacceptable. And I will end with another: take an example from our neighboring countries. Usually, granting strategic sites of concession, honourable Members, is not granted to neighbouring countries or countries at risk, especially neighbouring countries! Do you think Turkey, for example, would give itself the rail system of concession to Greece or Greece to give its airport to a Turkish company? Is that possible? I'm sure he didn't, but there's no such thing as a French firm. Bravo to the Turkish state, has given a concession to the new airport, which our prime minister went to open...................... more neighborly. However, who performs the concession 7 Turkish companies in concession. Good for Mr Erdogan, he's kept his strategic assets in Turkey! There were other people's candidates, but that's a bit of a coincidence. Quite right, I would have done the same thing. So keep your eyes open! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u363	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. For a line, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gechev! I was under the impression that you know who will concession Sofia Airport. Tell your colleagues that they know too. I have no idea as chairman and I have not been informed. If you, you know, tell your colleagues to know who the concession firm will be or who the concessionaire will be, because that's not clear at the moment. And how does the procedure prove to be a neighbor, not a neighbor? And on the second hand, you confirmed that yes, one of the largest airports in the region, and perhaps in Europe, that in Istanbul, is on concession and operated by foreign operators. And last but not least, the debts in BDZ stand and they are uncompetitive because they have obligations and cannot participate under the Operational Programme of the Transport Programme, for example, with these obligations. That by decision of the Council of Ministers all debts have been paid is not true, Mr. Gechev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u365	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u366	Thank you. Colleague, I almost entirely agree with your remarks that we have no way of knowing who the candidates are. But when you say it, you say it. The question is whether we will be able to manage the process, as other neighbouring countries have successfully managed it and I admire them. In fact, I admire that they invite neighboring countries to open the largest airport while we invite who? We'll invite them to discover the largest stretch of three kilometers in the village of Lyulache, that's what we can invite right now, that's the difference. And I also want big airports to open on concession. This one first. Secondly, let me give you another example. Check on the Internet, the United States a few years ago "seven or eight," announced a tender, not a concession, one of its ports, I think in Boston, and won a firm from the Middle East, and gathered the Congressional Security Committee and said: "Forget about the tender! The port remains for The United States! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u367	Thank you, dear Professor Gechev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. They voted 161 MPs: 10, against 102, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer art. 96, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 83 against 76 abstentions 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u368	The Commission proposes to establish art. 97: Art. 97. State universities, agreed with the Minister of Education and Science, can assume a total debt of up to 20 million. lv. to finance projects through financial instruments within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347,320, 20 December 2013), by financial intermediaries selected by the Fund manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u369	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the content proposed by the Commission of the new Article 97. Vote 146 MPs: for 89, against 54, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm announcing an interruption in the National Assembly's work for 15 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u370	Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u371	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u372	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the name of the division. Vote 91 MPs: 75 against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u373	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "1." Paragraph 1 shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The scientists and specialists from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences who volunteered to do so remain in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences within the framework of a newly formed scientific unit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. (b) the current para. 2 " 4" became respectively. 3.... 5.............................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u374	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u375	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask the question as we have proposed, because scientists from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology have the right to choose where to stay at work.................................................. whether to a newly formed scientific unit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or the unit that goes to the Ministry of Education and Science or this is the National Institute of Meteethology and Hydrology as a legal entity of the Ministry of the Ministry of Science. We must not and cannot oblige people and employees from the National Institute to have no choice and to oblige them to go along with the entire institute to the Ministry of Education and Science. That's why we're proposing. We must act democraticly and give the right to choose the people working and scientists and non-academic staff to this unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u376	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u377	Madam President, honourable Members! As recorded § 1 means that in the formation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology in a unit at the Ministry of Education and Science all who are currently a mediocre number of the Institute pass into this Institute. It is important to know that not all participants at the Institute.. those who work in it automatically go to this unit. Therefore, our proposal is to have an option for those who do not want this to be able to stay at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. According to a decision of the Governing Council, the Institute for Climate Research, atmosphere and water is established. At this time, 15 habilitated persons have declared their desire to remain in BAS. Note that this is 25% of the scientific potential or resource available to the Institute. This institute has a total of 24 people. Our proposal is in the Law to sign a special provision that those who want to stay at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have that right and that is our proposal. I hope that we do not change anything and give no reason to believe that we are interfering in the work of the Ministry of Education and Science with this transition of the Institute to them, but we also want there to be freedom of expression by express provision that those who want to work at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences remain at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the new Institute will be the one to which they will be transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u378	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 39, against 64, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 131 MPs: for 93, against 38, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u379	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The provisions of § 16, para. 1 and 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration (prom., SG No. ...) do not apply to the number of staff at the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Minister of Education and Science for 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u380	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text on § 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 90 against 37, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u381	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group: The following amendments and additions are made in § 3: (a) A new para shall be created. 2 and para. 3: The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences provides the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology with the Minister of Education and Science for free use for a period of four years the property necessary for the smooth implementation of its operational activities. Within this period, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Education and Science are agreed on the final solution of property issues. The currently accredited doctoral programmes shall be reserved for the two newly formed scientific units until further accreditations for the training of PhD students are held for a period of not more than 1 year and 6 months. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u382	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u383	Madam President, honourable Members! We made this proposal after many conversations and meetings. You know that information about how the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will negotiate with the Ministry of Education and Science was kept in the media, so that the Rules of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, which comes out of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, should be made under the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Act and the regulations that are necessary. In this connection the division of property between BAS and it is public-private property of the legal person Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the property necessary for the work of the newly formed National Institute of the Ministry of Education and Science cannot be easily and unambiguously authorised. All regulations must be followed in order for this to happen. That is why our proposal under this paragraph is to make a deadline of four years, it may be shorter, because to prepare all documents and to distribute properly the people in charge of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I cannot say the questions and the property, which is the newly created unit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the newly created unit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In order not to stop the work of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, we propose a reasonable period for this division to be carried out. Secondly, what I want to say about al. 3, is extremely important for young people and PhD students who are currently at the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. In order for them not to interrupt their doctoral degree, both newly established units do not have accreditation under their doctoral programs, our proposal is to leave accreditation as is the situation of being welded until the accreditation of the two newly formed units of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency is carried out. In this way, we will not interrupt the work of PhD students and academic and scientific teaching staff in both units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u384	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Professor Bachvarova, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u385	Madam President, honourable Members! As the text is written in § 3, it will create extremely many problems, including the transfer of the Institute to the Ministry of Education and Science. One of the questions and problems is the issue of property. The properties of the Academy, as my colleague said, have the status of private property, of a legal person and this status is fixed by the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It follows that the provisions of the BAS Act are leading, not the State Property Act. In order to transform this property into a public state, it is necessary to alienate the properties by an act of the National Assembly. This act does not exist at present. The properties used by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of BAS are provided by BAS. They can't be used if this institute comes out of the BAS system. What do we do from now on? We offer up to four years to establish this property, which should be transferred to the Institute. Why up to four years? Because, first of all, these properties aren't separated. On the same property of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there are several institutions. We need a specific act to say: this property becomes public state and it is granted to the Institute. The lack of such an act will cause problems, because the Institute may not be able to carry out its operational activities, which you claim accordingly. I would like to finally say my personal opinion on this transfer of the Institute to the Ministry of Education and Science on the basis of the experience I have. I respect the desire of scientists from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to be a secondary officer of the Ministry of Education and Science. But the experience the Agricultural Academy has had has shown that such transformations are rather harmful. At the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests until 2008 alone were two institutions - the Institute of Tobacco and the Institute of Rose. Their academic development had completely stopped, they had become some production bases. Since 2008, they have been transferred to the Agricultural Academy and have therefore entered the scientific community with opportunities, including academic development. Time will show who is right and who is wrong, but the fact that you in § 1 record the operative activity first, and science is finally in the sentence means that this institute, although it is national, will primarily deal with operational activity, but not with scientific activity, which I have to find out with great regret.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u386	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the proposal by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 139 MPs: 42, against 71, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 3. Vote 142 MPs: 97 against 45, abstention not. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u387	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I voted against it because, unfortunately, the state did not intervene in the case of government and government, and allowed a breakdown in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, in one of the most important institutes in the history of the Bulgarian state, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, an institute that matters to national security and to the development of agrarian sciences. You've allowed this to happen. Imagine that this became a practice and decided other institutes to leave the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, then what do we do? The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will shut it down?! [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, it's very easy for you. Once upon a time, there was a proposal from your Minister of Finance, who used to say "feudal elders."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u388	What if they don't want to work?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u389	They won't. It was your duty to keep the Institute at the BAS and not to allow any division. That is why I voted against it, because today you are making a very gross mistake in a strategic plan. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u390	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Will there be another negative vote? I won't. Moving on, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u391	Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "3." Paragraph 4 shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) The text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The funds to ensure the activity of the newly formed scientific unit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2019 shall be provided from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 " 3" through targeted transfer to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u392	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 46, against 72, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 150 MPs: for 100, against 50, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u393	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 5 to 8 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u394	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8. They voted 143 MPs: 98, against 44, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u395	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to Decompose." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 9 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u396	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer. 135 MPs voted: 94, 27, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u397	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 9 and shall propose it. Four down. Madam President, here I would like to make an editorial proposal: in § 10, which becomes § 9, to create a new item. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139c, para. 3 the figure The remaining points shall be renumbered. [[References between the President and the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u398	We are discussing § 10. There is an editorial proposal which was read by Mrs. Angelova. Mrs. Angelova, can you clarify the editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u399	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139c The report lists seven points. Missed point eight. It's a technical proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u400	Technically, it's a proposal. Are there any speeches on the proposals for § 10? I won't. We vote on the proposal for a technical amendment in the wording of § 10. Vote 152 MPs: for 101, against 37, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 10 with the technical amendment that has just been adopted. Vote 146 MPs: 110 against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u401	Is point four off?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u402	Ms. Angelova, t. 4 is out, but I think you reported it or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u403	I reported it, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u404	Point 4 is out. This is according to the report by importer with the technical amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u406	Mr. Nedyalkov, with the technical repair and this was reported in it. We continue with the Report under § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u407	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 11 to 13 including those becoming paragraphs 10 to 12 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u408	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported paragraphs 11 to 13 including by importer, which become paragraphs 10 to 12, supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 114 against 41 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u409	There is a proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs § 14 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u410	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u411	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What does dropping the NSO's service to the national ombudsman require? I want you to answer me because for Mrs. Manolova and the assessment of her work make her Bulgarian citizens, and she is very high. With her work she not only travels, but, in fact, with her actions, she faces serious monopolies, interests, and perhaps there is a threat to her safety. I think it's important that she needs it, and she's proven it with her job. We want to understand what this text requires. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u412	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, this proposal is contrary to the restrictive measure that the government has adopted. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, earlier and in art. 24 We offered to increase the BDZ subsidy, to repair the outdated rolling stock, wagons and infrastructure in the railway, but you did not support this either. Now you're taking Mrs. Manolova's car, and she has to move on the cold trains. Let's at least solve one, please. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u414	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u415	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u416	Mr. Chairman, please! [[Laughter, lines, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u417	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to raise the question quite in principle, without having regard to the ombudsman's personality at the moment, I would like someone to answer my question - perhaps the Finance Minister: since Mrs. Maya Manolova, the Ombudsman, before about a month was taken away from her car, now we are changing the Law from tomorrow, because you will vote on it and it is clear why you violated the Law a month ago? Why did you break the law by taking her car before you changed the law, first? [[Radio.]] Secondly, why don't you watch the Ombudsman institution, and you want to change the Law for the sake of man? By the way, this is not the first time that you are doing this because, when the protesters asked for Mr. Valeri Simeonov's resignation, the Personal Aid Act and the Law on Disabilities provides for the Deputy Prime Minister to be monitoring. Just because they asked for his resignation, you were ready to change the texts of the Law, which is not normal. You're not led by man, you're run by the institution! I think that the ombudsman institution has established itself as a serious institution in Bulgaria, whether because of the person or because of the institution itself, or because of the many problems of the Bulgarians, but has established the institution, so again from the position of superiority and the majority of you are solving some questions for which you will then put your head with ashes why you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u418	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u419	Dear Mr. Gokov, first of all, I want to tell you that you seem to be reading more sites.................... or I don't know what you are, or you really believe in Mrs. Manolova's PR, which, although not her car was taken and couldn't be her before the amendment of the Law, got on a train. True, rolling stock is not suitable, we had some newer rolling stock, but we are talking about taking a car, and I cannot agree with that at all. What is suggested is that the Ombudsman is not guarded by the NSO. We are talking here about the Security Service, and I do not think that the most popular person in the country, the most loved by the oppressed people's masses, should be protected from them. Mrs. Manolova doesn't have to ride the train or the bus. Ladies and gentlemen, she has a budget that we voted on today. 200,000. BGN, of which only 2 million lv. It's for staff, and the rest of the money's for the current allowance. Including a driver, there is a car, and if there is no car, I think we can give it one of the crashed cars of the National Assembly after repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other lines? Second line, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u421	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, I have listened carefully to you. Yes, indeed the topic is very interesting, very serious, in the same context, Mr. Gokov, you can think. I cannot understand and Mrs. Stoyanova, yes, she speaks, but to take to suggest that this should apply to both the ministers and the Prime Minister, because they are among the people, they are elected by the people in this National Assembly, to give them a broken car, Mr. Gokov, from the National Assembly. I think that's the most resonant thing that's ever happened. Mr. Goranov will support us on a broken car and the Ministry of Finance. Of course, Mr. Gokov, it's the most sensible solution and when we're going, let's go straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u422	Is there a third line to Mr. Gokov? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u423	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, a little mean was your line and you must be jealous of something, so I think it's about popularity. Mr. Ivanov, I also thought to tell Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, as she spoke of the most popular person in the country, I thought she was talking about Mr. Borisov. I think they're gonna strip him of a car and I'm worried because people's love is limitless and I don't know how far it can go. Mrs. Stoyanova, you speculate that the budget is really 3 million, and 2 million is for wages. How much of this 1 million is the rent for the building paid for the Ombudsman? How much money for a car, for a driver, for wages and so on? I know from the previous Ombudsman who was constantly crying that a large rent is being paid for the Ombudsman's building and the state did not find money for the most popular institution in the country to place them in a building where they would not pay rent. So the question is perhaps to Mr. Goranov, I even admire that you are taking her out of the NSO and there is no need to guard the Ombudsman, mainly abscond from the person who is now in office. Mr. Goranov tells us if there's money for a car and for a driver of this car, for wages, and then let's vote this, because otherwise the other one is not serious. It's not serious what you're doing, Mrs. Stoyanova, it's not serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u424	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I see that your mood improves when it comes to someone taking away a certain privilege, figuratively speaking. If you think it's a privilege for you, it's not for others. Dear colleagues, we have all chosen Maya Manolova as Ombudsman. [[GERB lines.]] Okay, one part of GERB, and the rest of you didn't choose it. We know you voted for her, too. This is the person who really does his job very, very well and for a reason has such great approval. I think you can't deny it. Her reports in Parliament are voted unanimously and approved, and suddenly the NSO has to save expenses and look right at Maya Manolova's face. We can't help but ask ourselves a few questions: is this for political reasons? Mrs. Stoyanova just got confused. You may have your ears pulled, Mrs. Stoyanova, because for you the most popular person should be the Prime Minister, but the truth is that among the people the most popular person is Maya Manolova. [[Laughter, lines, excitement.]] It's a man who's really loved, liked, and mostly wanted. Unlike other ombudsmen, Maya Manolova does not sit in her office to receive people, but travels around the country all the time. Is that right? That's right, guys. It is normal for her to be able to travel much more than you and meet people. It's normal to think about having specific guards for this person who really is so among the people. What you're doing right now is my second question: is there any other reason for future elections, and you trying in this artificial way, showing power through the Law, through the state budget, to restrict certain rights? It's a shame, it's funny that this is where you found to keep people from using NTAC. I'd like to ask the Patriots why they're silent. Won't they ask anything else? In the end, all of you will support the removal of Maya Manolova's security. It's very easy when it comes to a woman, isn't it, colleagues? Is that right? It's very easy, it's very easy! That is why I think it is appropriate to support the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, namely what is proposed by the government, to be dropped. Please replicate me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u426	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u427	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Since the reason why the Ombudsman was not included in the list of persons entitled to specialized transport from the National Security Service has not been stated so far, my question to you, Mr. Stoinev, in the form of a reply, is as follows. Let us first recall that the Law was adopted in 2015 by a majority in the National Assembly by the same political power. I think it was changed in 2017, when the majority was again by the same leading political power. And there are ranked persons entitled to specialized transport like this: the members of the Council of Ministers, the members of the Constitutional Court, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ombudsman, the Mayor of the capital. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, the mayor of the capital. It's by law, and it's being executed. I would like to ask you: what would the selection criterion be, when the Ombudsman and the mayor of the capital are gentle sexes, after you said that a woman can easily be defeated? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u428	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u429	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I expected such a zealous defense, but I did not expect so zealous. I feel like it was a nomination for a new leader of the BSP. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mrs. Nino is absent, and here you are starting some kind of creeping coup. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]] Since you failed to bring down the government, you have now decided to bring down your leader. [[Noise, laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]] Indeed, Mrs Manolova is a very active person and ombudsman, but the National Assembly still consists of other political forces. We are not a prisoner here of the National Council of BSP, nor are we at a convention. [[Noise and lines.]] Otherwise, I'm sure she'll accept the nomination. The point is that Mrs. Nino, which I repeat, is absent, is fighting against any privileges. I've never heard of Mrs. Manolova being threatened. We especially keep it like a written egg, we don't give it away. [[Noise, laughter, excitement in GERB.]] However, if you want it very much, I wish you success at the head of your party. Then perhaps we will have one active, constructive and strong opposition for at least 10 years. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u430	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Stoynev, you have the floor for the coat, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bikov, if there was a clear reaction on the part of the ruling majority and the government, rather a clear explanation of why Mrs. Manolova's transport is being taken away for example, given that her main job is to travel, why she cannot use the National Security Service, even more so she is a person who goes around the country completely, I think it is not here to talk here about party interest, even more so Mrs. Manolova has frozen her membership in BSP. Since the debate is really serious, perhaps it is nice for the Minister to come out and explain the reason, because it is probably his proposal. Therefore, Mr. President, I am making an editorial proposal, after the word "combudsman" to the Mayor of the capital. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I very much hope that this will be accepted because it is also a respectable person, it is also among the people, and we from the opposition see no reason for it to benefit from the services of the National Security Service and for the Ombudsman to be de facto deprived. Why do I ask? That's why I'm making an editorial proposal now. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u432	What exactly is the offer, Mr. Stoinev? Please, where do you drop what? Formulate exactly the proposal: in which text, in which law, where to drop?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u433	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 1 to drop, I think, the last word of the mayor of the capital. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u434	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal received in the Chamber by Mr. Stoinev. The proposal is: in the National Security Service Act, art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 after the word "combudsmana" is deleted. The proposal is to add the mayor of the capital. The Mayor of the capital is deleted. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 159 MPs: 58, against 82, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stoynev, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-vote. Colleagues, Mrs. Fandakova can use the tram, she can use Sofia's trolley. What's the matter with her, I ask. That's why I want a re-vote. She is also loved and let her use this transport as Maya Manolova uses BDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u436	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I would like to re-vote the proposal to drop the mayor of the capital among the persons listed in art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the National Security Service Act. Vote 162 MPs: 57 against 87 abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting on the proposal from MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 70 against 86 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 13, supported by the Commission. They voted 170 MPs: 113 against 57 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here's a negative vote. Dr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u437	Negative vote. I will explain very quickly why we voted against. This year, the majority in the National Assembly amended the Law on the Ombudsman and entrusted it to the Ombudsman, whether it is a woman, whether it is Mrs. Manolova or you, or whoever it is, a very important function to protect citizens' rights not only against public institutions, because the Minister will not pursue her, but against individuals. At the moment, the Ombudsman is called upon, when alerted, to go to any factory, workshop or mine and to defend citizens' rights. And here, this year, today, it is most imperative than ever that the constitutional body ombudsman or public mediator be protected by the National Security Service, not by private companies, not by any driver, because it is provided for in the Constitution and you have assigned it to protect people from other people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u438	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against it, because the most important thing in politics is to be consistent. You are now taking the use of NSO from the Ombudsman because you are afraid of Mrs. Manolova's rating. What will you do in September if Mrs. Manolova becomes mayor of Sofia?! [[Greece and laughter from GERB.]] What will you do then? Are we gonna change the budget again then? [[Noise, laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why didn't you listen to Mr. Stoinev when he offered to drop the NSO and the mayor of Sofia? You don't think the mayor of Sofia will be from GERB, do you? [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] I propose that we rethink Mr. Stoinev's proposal and deprive Mrs. Manolova of all transport throughout her political path from here, while GERB manages, with a back date. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u440	Of course, there's no way he's going to go through with Mr. Stoinev's proposal. We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u441	According to § 15 "A proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u442	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor. [[Applause and cheering: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u443	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With this paragraph, you are making changes to the Civil Service Act. I will comment on these changes from my point of view. I have asked several times the question to all ministers: how many people retired work in the state administration. I would support such an approach even though you do so through the State Budget Act. However, the question here is not whether I support it or not, but what you are doing right now with this thing. Firstly, under the Civil Service Act, you deprive the people of pensioners to work in the public administration. At the same time, you leave other pensioners elsewhere to work. That's not good! Next, you deprive people of the possibility of an informed choice, as you have been telling them for a long time that there is no problem for people to retire and work. I would mention the decision in which Bulgaria was convicted in Strasbourg that a Bulgarian woman who works in Switzerland was forced to quit her job, to retire and then, if they wanted to, to hire her. You deprive these people of the right to an informed choice. Secondly, all people who trust the pension system and the state in general lose that trust after changing the rules on the move. Thirdly, you discriminate. Firstly, because this will not apply to all civil servants. Secondly, because we cannot discriminate against people who have received a pension. I would accept your proposal if it continued like this, for example.............................................. and for a place that has candidates at workable age................................................................................................................... If you remember, once upon a time there was a text in the Labour Code that said that a place was given permission to work for a pensioner only if there was no candidate at work age for this place. Now you are risking bloodying the administration of people that this administration has relied on so far, and from tomorrow he will not be able to rely upon after this provision has entered into force in the Civil Service Act. Perhaps I would still support you here if you had given these administrations a grace period to be released from their employees at some point in time. [[Noise and lines.]] This is a very controversial proposal and I would not support it in any way. Even with the parliamentary group, we've suggested that it be dropped. [[Noise and lines.]] There is a very high dose of rightness in what you do to free places for young people. The question is whether there are candidates at working age for these places and whether we are doing it the right way, and whether now is the time with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Budget Act to do it without public discussion and without the sanction of social partners from trade unions and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u444	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Looks like the subject's intriguing. Please take your seats Mr. Minister, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov spoke with the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Please. We'll wait until he can calmly continue the hearing. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, there are objections regarding the general meeting. That's why I made a note. I'm sorry. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Gokov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u445	Honourable President, procedure in the manner of conduct. I'm asking you to cancel this sitting, is it a meeting, what is it, because we are still dealing with serious things, and we are taking the budget of the Republic, and I think this is a serious attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u446	Mr. Gokov, it's reasonable. If we have to, we'll call the meeting off. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Angelov wants the word in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u447	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if my procedure is exactly the way it is, but I have a proposal because in the last two days we have learned that Mr. Gokov understands the most about budget and is not a member of the budget committee. My suggestion is that the BSP should really propose it as a member of the Budget Committee so that it can participate directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u448	Of course it's not in the way of conduct. We're past that. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will continue with the speech by defending Mr. Gokov's thesis and saying that we at BSP are against the texts of this paragraph. We propose to drop it for the following reasons: this proposal is wrong and hasty. In haste, because we assume that this way you want to save some money after the New Year in connection with the salaries of civil servants. In haste, because many state agencies and other state administrations lack the appropriate capacity and this will affect the work of these institutions. Yeah, it's basically nice that the guy who's worked his whole life and he's retired, retired, and resting, as it's nice for the young guy to go to work, start working and earn a good salary. In Bulgaria, unfortunately, neither is present. And pensions are miserable, and salaries are miserable. About the fact that the decision would be wrong. I've spoken to the heads of state agencies, they say the following: we are now appointing young moves if they have the relevant censure and education. The problem is that they do not stay because they come somewhere from the country in Sofia to work in a state agency. Only there's 500, 600, 700 BGN. Well, with that money, a young man's apartment to pay, a family to watch?! In this sense, the heads and directors of agencies and administrations feel compelled to hold people who have reached their retirement age because they are professionals and give meaning to the work of the administration. If your proposal is accepted after the New Year without any criteria or selection, so many civil servants will be released together, the state administration will be mutilated by professionals. As for the fact that you will fill the public administration with ladybugs loyal to the party, we have no doubt about that, but this is not in favor of the strong and working administration. We call on you to drop this proposal! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u450	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: They voted 136 MPs: 44, against 72, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text on § 15, which shall become § 14, proposed by the importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 102 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u451	According to § 16 "A proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u452	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: They voted 142 MPs: 39, against 77, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the importer for § 16, which shall become § 15, supported by the Commission. Vote 141 MPs: 99, against 42, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u453	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u454	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of an importer for § 17, which shall become § 16, supported by the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 96 against 37, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u455	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov in Transitional and Final Provisions is created § 17a: sevena. In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 107a is created. 22: The employees working in the state administration shall be entitled to representative and uniform clothing under the conditions laid down by the Council of Ministers for service workers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u456	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have been aware of this problem for a long time since the right of representative uniforms for employees working in the service was settled by the Law on the Civil Service Officer, and for employees in the public administration's employment relationship the matter has not been settled. This creates serious tension between employees working in the same administration of different relationships. The employers, in this case the state, in the face of the leaders of the various administrations, and now determine and allocate funds for representative uniforms and for employees working on employment in the respective administration, but on the edge of the Law and with particular concerns that a check by the Court of Auditors will find an infringement. My proposal aims to remove this omission and to settle the right of financial resources for representative clothing of employees in the state administration................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Once again, I would like to note that no additional funds are required in the budgets of the senior or secondary authorising officers concerned, but only for the regulatory settlement. Until now, employees in the state administration have received funds for such clothing, which is subject and arrangement even in collective agreements, but each supervisor is looking for opportunities and loopholes, and this creates various and exceptional practices in this handing out of work clothes. Understand that it is imperative to accept this because the principle and approach is to align the rights of employees in the public administration with those of civil servants, and this implies a levelling between workers in the service and in the employment relationship and in the types of clothing they are entitled to. I wouldn't miss to say it's a union position, too, and it's been a long time. I will not miss the fact that, with almost every budget since 2014, this is my proposal and I remain misunderstood, which makes me confused, because it is a proposal for a legal settlement that is applied and used without such legal settlement, and is very important for the peace of administration, does not require additional budget funds, but meets such resistance. Maybe because it was proposed by a MP from the opposition. I think if you try to understand the proposal, you'll support it. I highly doubt that, but I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u458	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal to create a new § 17a. They voted 127 MPs: 32, against 68, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u459	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man sevena. In the Law on Value Added Tax (prom. DV, No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 2 the following is added to the list of medicines that the National Health Insurance Fund pays, as well as to the list of medicines that are included in the list of medicinal products that the National Health Insurance Fund pays; (b) the creation of para. 3: The rate of taxation for the bread shall be 5 per cent. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 1 the number "sixty thousand' is replaced by one hundred thousand. §17b. In the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals (prom. DV. No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1: - in the introductory sentence, at the end of the text, after the words "art." Several thousand BGN is added. for any minor child; - T. 1 (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The monthly tax base referred to in art. 42, para. 2 for employment benefits of the persons referred to in the previous paragraph shall be reduced by 500 BGN. for any minor child. c) the current para. 2 " 8" becomes respectively. 3... 9.............................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 2. (b) para. 4 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be determined as the monthly tax base under para. 3 shall be calculated according to the following table: (by table attached to the Commission report). 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 words multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent shall be replaced by a bet under the table of art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 3 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall bet on the table referred to in Article 1. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 4 in the sentence second, the words "repeated at tax rate 10 per cent" shall be replaced by "bet" under the table under art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. 1 words multiplied by tax rate 10 per cent shall be replaced by a bet under the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The rate of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1? 7, 9, 10 and 12 is according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 2 the number "s' is replaced by "seven' and, at the end of the sentence, after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added to "seven' as well as for the incomes under art. 38, para. 11 and 13 (c) para. 3 and 4 are canceled. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the title is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of the advance tax under art. Art. 43, Art. Art. 44, Art. 44a and the amount of tax on the total annual tax base (b) para. 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for rent income or other provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 shall be determined according to the following table: (as per the table attached in the Commission report). (c) the creation of para. 9.. 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42. (10) If the person has not received benefits from employment relationships, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by 6000 BGN for each minor, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts tax, interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims shall be due for the non-payments and annual contributions. § 17c. The Family Aid Act for Children makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2, p. 6 after the word, the intuitive is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. 2. Article 6: (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The amount of aid under para. 1 for the second and/or third child of parents provided 24 months before and at the time of birth of the child shall not be less than 10 times the minimum wage for each child per year and shall be determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. (b) The current para. 3 " 9" became respectively. 4... 10. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10a. the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1 after the word, the reference is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. (b) para. 6 is amended as follows: The aid for the year concerned shall be recovered from the beneficiary if the child does not attend school or attend regular school until the end of the first, second, third or fourth grade respectively, unless it is necessary due to the health of the child. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 6 after the word, the intuitive is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. 17 years old. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 4c shall be inserted in Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. The VAT on vehicles for 2019 shall be determined in accordance with the terms and sizes in force for 2018. § 17e. In the Public Finance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: Art. 1. 11, para. 10 A sentence is created second: The Mayor of the Region or City Hall is a secondary authorising officer with a budget for the activities of the region or town hall and implements a delegated budget, under conditions and in accordance with a regulation of the Municipal Council, according to methodical instructions of the Minister of Finance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 the number The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u460	Statements? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u461	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about fundamental things that can clearly draw the line between us and you. We were just told how money couldn't support demographic policy. Now we want to offer a family income tax something extremely nice, modern, something that is being done in the rest of the world, only it is unlikely that this concerns GERB and the ruling Patriots because for them apparently the demographic collapse is not a problem. By the way, perhaps they do not know how to handle it, because family income taxation is one of the things that is being done in the modern world. What we are proposing is for all working parents - I repeat working parents - this concerns those who really pay their income taxes, not those who live on social benefits - to reduce the monthly tax base by 500 BGN. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that if you receive BGN 500. There are also such people, here I understand that on the right side there are no such people, and I doubt they have such close ones. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] If you have to pay 10% tax, that's 50 BGN, and when 50 BGN is deducted. of the tax due, for him the tax is zero, provided there is one child. Two children, respectively, increased. That's what's done in the modern world. However, we may prefer to import workers from abroad rather than offer specific measures that concern precisely family income taxation, because this is something that is modern, efficient, in support of our demographic collapse. The other thing we're offering is for family support for children. You know that these poor children are currently offered aid only for the first grade for buying a jacket, backpack, shoes, pants. We offer this help to increase for the second, third and fourth grade, because it is unlikely that parents, when they have become second, third and fourth grade, have become richer. We also propose in this paragraph, and I very much hope that you will listen to these proposals of ours, the famous poverty tax that you have imposed on the so-called old cars. Even Mrs. Menda Stoyanova urged the people to stop buying tarals! Maybe they don't want to drive old cars, but they do because they just don't have a chance to buy new cars. I see that the fun with Mrs. Stoyanova is huge, but we propose that this tax will remain as in 2018. After all, ladies and gentlemen, our goal is, firstly, to raise incomes and then to impose restrictions on people what cars drive, because only for 2018, according to the DMV, registered cars over 10 years are 87% of the fleet. I believe that what you are imposing as such a tax on poverty, a tax on poverty, that is, GERB punishes people that they are poor, and that is why in Parliament we should vote on GERB's proposal to impose this really quite humiliating tax on the Bulgarian Parliament, now you have the opportunity to correct it. Let this car tax be calculated as it was calculated in 2018. I think this is the last opportunity you have, and it is good to listen to what I tell you. Of course, we are also talking here about a 5% reduction in VAT on bread, because there is hardly a more gray sector than the production of bread, a measure that will not reduce revenue, but lighten up a large part of the revenue in this sector, and will also have an effect on the end-user. It is high time to think about also changing the so-called flat tax debate that started in society, a debate that is supported by trade unions and employers. We believe that this flat tax could not lead to the necessary effects. This is a good time because there is already this debate in society. If it is so liked, loved and positive, it is unlikely that countries such as the United States of America, the most liberal state, would have a progressive tax. So, fellow Members, I think it's quite normal to have a particular evolution. [[the President signals that time has run out]] ... I'm graduating, Madam President... and let's not rely on it and lean on it that a few years ago it was accepted and now it shouldn't be replaced. After all, we must be in sync with today's economic and social events. The difference in Bulgarian society... [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm graduating, Madam President... between the poor and the rich, Ginny's coefficient is the highest in the entire European Union. It is high time we took the necessary initiatives together, so let's reduce this coefficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u462	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u463	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria and for adding new paragraphs 17f and 17e are extremely important and deserve the attention of everyone present in this Chamber. Dear colleagues, these proposals contain not only policies, not only pure numbers, not only budget, but also attitude towards Bulgarian citizens. An attitude concerning all the injustices that have accumulated on them in recent years. These proposals contain an adjustment to all harmful and incorrect changes in legislation that have been adopted in recent months on the eve of the adoption of the budget. They reflect all requests of the Bulgarian citizens who were placed here both in writing and through protests and through visits of the National Assembly. The only way to remedy this injustice, honourable Members, I am particularly talking about those in the right part of this House, is to read carefully and get involved in the debates, to support everything we have proposed, because here are our proposals to reduce the rate of VAT on medicines. We started with them for a reason. The Bulgarian people are failing! The other day we voted on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund to compensate for any preferences, no opportunities for the poorest, the most disadvantaged and the most socially weak Bulgarian citizens to be compensated by the constantly increasing prices. The only way you can participate in them right now is to support our proposal to reduce VAT on medicines. Here is also the tax rate for the bread "five per cent." This will give breath to those who live in the village, to those who take 200 leva. a pension to those who take the minimum wage and make it difficult to feed their families. You know the statistics on what it is now for a four-member family require more than BGN 2000. monthly income. How many in the country do they work on these salaries? It's a very small part. Put one bread on which the price has risen in recent months for various reasons for increasing fuel prices, for increasing the price of electricity, whether because of poor production this year and so on. This thing hits every Bulgarian citizen's pocket. Here our proposal is to turn your face and lend a hand to the small business, Mr. Tsvetanov. I see there's an agreement in you to support him. We offer small companies. This is exclusively about micro enterprises, which with one, with two, with three people provide one, two, three families. The threshold for VAT registration to be of 50 thousand. $100,000. BGN, so that they can pick up their speed and enter the real business rather than be destroyed by the tax administration in the first steps of their walking in the business sphere, so that they can contribute to the Bulgarian economy, their added value when they accumulate the necessary speed. Here are our proposals for relief for young families, for those who create children. It is a gesture, an attitude towards all young Bulgarian families and those who have not settled yet to take their step towards increasing Bulgarian citizens. A moment in which you can support, show respect for those people who are wondering how to make ends meet, not how to create a family, how to create a generation and offspring. It's the right thing to do. I'm not gonna stop at other people because my colleagues have a lot more to say. Again, this is a matter of attitude, a question of understanding the problems of Bulgarian citizens. The support, every single vote for this proposal, is in the direction of being able to revive the Bulgarian state, that Bulgarian citizens can have some normal incomes, a normal way of life that deserves a European citizen, because being a member of the European Union for 10 years now, we are always at the top of the charts. Always last, both by income and lifestyle and by standard and by all kinds of things. Let us take this decisive step today in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u464	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? I won't. Mr. Burdzhev, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u465	Madam President, honourable Members! From the very beginning of the management of GERB and the United Patriarchs there was a lack and fear of any reforms. Both tax and loading on poorer and less likely people to buy new environmentally friendly cars proves it. I'll give you one particular example of comparison. It is much easier to coast and not make reforms and load the most defenseless people before providing them with the necessary income, the necessary environment for development. For example, tomorrow we will discuss with the Minister of Environment and Water the issue of the Pleven cardboard plant. After my humble research, it turns out that without the necessary treatment plants, he's been missing out on...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u466	On the subject, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u467	...great strong chemicals. The fact that the control institutions will not stop them and do their job, all indications are that there are large corruption schemes and closing of eyes...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u468	What's the connection to the subject we're discussing now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u469	The connection is that, first of all, the necessary reforms need to be made, to create conditions in the budget to increase the incomes of these poor people that we want to raise their car taxes. It is the easiest to bear the weakest and the weakest people, because they can give the slightest resistance. That's the connection. If you haven't understood it, then you have no connection to political and social reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u470	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u471	Colleagues, please be quiet. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u472	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I'm about to tell you right now, we've been over this a couple of times. Today, right in the paragraphs that we offer you, there is that difference that is called the difference in policies on the left and right. In them lies what separates us, as a socialist party, from you, as a right party. And anyone who understands a little about politics will understand that this is the case, moreover, that the Budget Act is the main political law that the government and the coalition pass. Because it is the Law that gives those means to exercise their policies. It is clear to everyone that your law is most social. That's what you called it. Perhaps in your eyes it seems that it is the most social with one hand you give the poorest, with the other hand you give high rates to the rich and you take from the poorest even more rates, both as prices, as taxes, and things you should pay with their own work. We do the opposite. We are trying to give more opportunities to the poorer, more money to live. And not only to give them, but to justify why they are. If you carefully read what we have proposed, you will see that we have already discussed this.. reducing the value added tax on medicines and bread. I won't dwell on arguments, you won't hear them anyway. And on the fact that we want to introduce the first elements of family income tax with tax exemptions to families who have children working families, not all families. And that we offer where the money comes from with a change of income tax system, including dividends. I'm going to give you that example that we've already said several times. Eight persons in Bulgaria, whether physically or legally, are allocated 8 billion at 5% of current dividend, which basically means some 400 million. Assuming that all those on whom the dividend is distributed take three thousand and several levs, it means that 400 million tax is not collected annually. You know, the money that's being offered is a lot more than that. Therefore, the discussion of the paragraphs at the beginning of the budget framework would have led to a collection of more than 4 billion dollars in it. You didn't accept this because these 4 billion won't go into the pockets of the rich and those who try to rule society, based on the fact that everyone eats three times a day and forgets that there are people who can barely make ends meet. Because we were going to offer the money to go to the poor, to go to the normal workers, so that Bulgaria could become a normal European country and not be in the queue. I know what I'm saying right now must be bothering you. I know what we're telling you right now, you won't accept it. And I do not say with the illusion that you will accept it, but only to stress that there is a cardinal difference between us and you and it is called a hearing of the problems of the people.It is called a social solidarity which we have, it is not a policy in the name of the future of Bulgaria as a people and not in the name of the future of Bulgaria as a little rich and with very, very poor. You wouldn't understand, I guess. You probably won't like what I'm saying, but, unfortunately, it's the truth. Unfortunately, today Bulgaria is divided and Bulgaria must make the choice whether to live according to your model, in which we have been living for 11 years or already knows what the alternative we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u473	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u474	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! With these paragraphs in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" "From 17a to 17e," which we propose to include in the budget of state social security, we are actually aiming for a change in four basic tax laws and so on. They represent our philosophy in tax policy, in social assistance. I will not try to repeat my fellow Members, but I will say that if these proposals are accepted, they will give people a breath of air and will not make them go outside to protest against low incomes and against incorrect policy on your part to them, because you are now acting just like Maria Antoinette, this French woman... [[Radio and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u475	It's a woman, not a gender.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u476	...who tells her that people are rebelling because there is no bread, says, "Well, if there is no bread, eat the bread." But keep in mind that Maria Antoinette? Queen of France was beheaded during the French Revolution, so don't be so happy. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u477	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u478	I'm not going to repeat our suggestions because my colleagues said them, and they're very well written, and anyone who cares can see them. I hope, who is at least a little interested in the opposition's proposals, has come to know them. I just want to ask, because I do not understand budget and finance, but I have a claim to understand social policy that can also be challenged, but at least I have such self-confidence: what drives a person, like Mr. Angelov, who calls himself Patriot and wants to save Bulgaria? I would also like to ask many people in the Chamber who are Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria: why do they, as responsible people, not want to support, for example, the reduction of VAT on medicines, VAT on bread? It is not a precedent, it is not a socialist whim, or the Bulgarian Socialist Party has it in many countries in Europe. So I ask you: why do you not support the reduction of VAT on medicines and on bread? Why do you not support the progressive tax? Is there a European country that makes a good social policy with a flat tax that is available in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u479	How many years have you wanted to impose?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u480	I ask you: why do you not support the first steps in the family income tax, which we want to impose on that BGN 50. Every month's tax can be saved for every child from a working family? This is fully in line with your desire not to assist people who do not work and take advantage of the social system. This is your priority, as far as I know, of the..... United Patriarchs................................................................................. I would like to ask you: why do you not support our proposal to drop this tax on old vehicles, which you imposed very soon? A lot of things you need to be asked about. Let us ask you: what gives you the right to be called Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, since you have no desire to help your people develop towards Europe? What is European about keeping people with frozen social benefits, frozen social payments? What is European about keeping them low-income? What European is there in this when you were even and even pretended to be before Romania, to breathe their ashes now? And nothing to do with this budget is the most important law for the state! Many questions, honourable MPs of the majority, to which you must answer this evening. However, I did not see any of you rise up and defend this budget, which made this government broadcast by your majority! I don't know how you're gonna explain tomorrow, when you're out on the street, what you've said, say it here, let's hear it too. Or is it easier for you to go around manipulating people not with suggestions, but with forceful methods during elections?! You'll probably win next election by having a power approach. [[GERB lines]] No way. We're waiting for the answers from you, gentlemen in charge. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u481	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u482	How can there not be?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u483	How many people do you have to say? Raise your hand so I can make a list! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know about you, Ms. Nencheva. I'm writing down who will speak. Who else but Mrs. Klisurska? Mrs. Klisurska, Mr. Georgiev and Chenchev means four people. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u484	There's a huge amount of carelessness in the world. Dear Madam President, colleagues who have the tranquility and courage to stay in this Chamber! Just a few weeks ago, we witnessed another protest from the National Association of Mayors of Mayors in the Republic of Bulgaria. However, unlike everyone else, they were very soon stopped with some promises that the government made, and we learned from the media. Apparently, the power of the government is in the promises. However, the mayors of small town halls have met with us and we have made specific commitments that I will now read: "S 17e." In the Public Finance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 10 A sentence is created second: The Mayor of the Region or City Hall is a secondary authorising officer with a budget for the activities of the region or town hall and implements a delegated budget under conditions and in accordance with a regulation of the Municipal Council, according to methodical instructions of the Minister of Finance. I hope that this will be taken very seriously by the other few MPs in the right part of the House and supported as our proposal regarding the commitments made to the mayors of small town halls. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u485	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a statement. Colleagues, just one moment to read the parliamentary control message so we can notify the ministers and the MPs to know who they are. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for procedure.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Svilensky, to read the parliamentary control so you know which ministers will be here. Parliamentary Control Communication on 30 November 2018, Friday: 1. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov. 2. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; Vasil Antonov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Krasimir Yankov and Dimitar Stoyanov; and Krasimir Yankov. 3. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Georgiev and a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Stoyan Mirchev. 4. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer five questions from the MPs Alexander Alexandrov; Georgi Mihailov; Venka Stoyanova; and Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; and Stanislav Vladimirov. 5. Justice Minister Tsetska Tsacheva will answer a question from the MP Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova and Tanya Petrova; and Radostin Tanev and Galya Zhelyazkova. 7. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Adlen Shevked. 8. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer four questions from the MPs Evgeni Budinov. Two questions; Stoyan Mirchev; and Alexander Simov and Nona Yotova. 9. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev. Postpone answers by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Anton Kutev; and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to a question written by the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question with a written answer from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions written by the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; and Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - two questions from the MPs Asya Peeva and Pavel Hristov; and Emilia Staneva-Milkova and Alexander Matsurev to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u486	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are looking at the budget of the state - it is clear that you are not speaking, it is clear that the ministers are gone, but there is no Minister of Finance, there is no President of the Budget Commission, there is no Vice-President of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u487	The whole group's leadership is gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u488	Questions are being asked. There is no one to answer these questions. Apparently, there is already fatigue in all Members of the National Assembly. I suggest a 30-minute recess on behalf of the parliamentary group and at least let the Minister of Finance come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u489	Ten-minute break. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Take 15 minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u490	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ah, Mr. Georgiev is here, yes. I didn't see you, Mr. Georgiev, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u491	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will be brief on our proposal to reduce VAT on the bread to 5%. A month and a half ago during parliamentary control, our colleagues asked the Minister for Labour and Social Policy: what is the strategy for compensation of the socially poor in relation to the increase in bread prices? I did not expect that 11 years after we are a member of the European Union, we will have a compensation strategy for increasing the cost of bread. According to the Agricultural Report of the Ministry of Agriculture, 2017 The last Argrarian report, sector "Employment" has been growing in the last three years in the rates of 63, 64 and 67, at the expense of the sector "Employment" in the last three years. At the same time, the trade balance is positive for the export of cereals and all this is at the expense of the cereals, what I told you last night about the wrong agricultural policy, which is monocultural, conventional. In this regard Bulgaria has become a donor of primary production without added value, that is, we export grain, which is not processed into added value. Therefore, I believe that the reduction of VAT on bread is a state policy. It is possible, because Bulgaria has a given export of wheat and a large part of this production should remain here. So the policy that we propose from our parliamentary group to reduce VAT on the bread to 5%, I think it is a must. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u492	And thank you, Mr. Georgiev, for being brief. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u493	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we are making in § 17e is related to an amendment to the Public Finance Act and the possibility that mayors of the town halls may be designated as secondary officers, to have delegated budgets in order laid down in a regulation of the Municipal Council, with methodical instructions given by the Ministry of Finance. The topic of the financial autonomy of mayors of town halls, of municipalities is needed today with the budget, because after its adoption the budget procedures of municipalities begin. As you all know, at the beginning of this month there was an explicit desire for changes in legislation related to the autonomy of mayors of mayors. Such arguments were presented to you in a working group that took place, and you yourself agreed that mayors of town halls are currently in the way they are put in the Public Finance Act and the Local Government and Local Administration Act, they do not have the autonomy to operate with independent budgets. In this regard, it is important and imperative that you accept our proposal and prove to all those mayors that you think about their budgets and their operational autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u494	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u495	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will continue the subject of VAT on bread by inviting you, for which way, to think, to realise your vote and to support us, because this will bring out an awkward situation and avoid a second humiliating situation if you increase the cost of bread, your government, representatives of your government............................................................... Consider this our proposal! I think it's important and it concerns everyone. We have seen reason in our suggestions, and we could have made one with regard to the cultural work of the books, for example, but we have not done so. We believe that bread is extremely important to the Bulgarian population. That is why we are focusing there. Here, I also address my colleague from the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) Peter Petrov. After his inappropriate speech regarding children and homes, you remember him all, now is the time, Mr. Petrov, to redeem yourself before mothers and to accept our proposal with regard to families.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u496	Is this just for moms?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u497	For the mothers, especially! He will redeem himself if he does so and if he reconsiders the way he will vote and supports our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u498	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Colleagues, this was the last person to sign up. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal to create paragraphs 17a to 17e. Vote 139 MPs: 50, against 75, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Veselinov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u499	Madam President, honourable Members! After this vote, a few words need to be said, because perhaps a few questions should also be asked to the Members who made these proposals. First of all, recently they deafened our ears about how laws are amended by paragraphs between first and second readings. I ask: is the tax philosophy of the state changing with paragraphs between first and second readings? I don't think that's the right approach! Secondly, I would like to ask my colleagues, whose amnesia is obvious, who introduced the flat tax? BSP? [[Noise, lines and shouts: "BSP!," "BSP!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] BSP has introduced the flat tax from which he now wants to save us! [[Noise and lines.]] Then, I want to ask who twice the state went bankrupt at Lukanov and at Videnov, and why the Bulgarian income... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u500	Take it easy! It's a negative vote! The coworker says why he didn't vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u501	...are always on this level?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u502	Why don't you ask? Because you're afraid to ask? Coward!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u503	I would like to ask: who has managed 15 years since the transition? And last but not least, I want to ask, did they ever realize who won the election and who won with the respective program? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Many of the proposals offered by BSP are part of the patriotic program, only we came to elections and did not receive the necessary support to pass them. [[(Noise, lines, and shouts:) from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] And once it has defeated the concept of flat tax, I think it is normal for us to accept this concept by the end of this term and then, when the mandate is gone, to appear again before the vote of citizens and not to change the terlic vote of citizens for basic policies in the country. [[Noise and lines.]] In this regard, I think there are many positive things. Most of you have stolen them from us since last term. [[(Noise, lines and shouts:]] Dear colleagues, report to the elections, win the program, we may find a common language in some next term for some of your proposals!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u504	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[Noise and lines by National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] You can't! Come on, now, Mr. Ermenkov! [[Noise and lines.]] Come on, that's enough! [[Noise and lines.]] Come on, come on! Mr. Ermenkov! Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u505	Madam President, I beg you very much... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u506	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u507	...explain to colleagues that the negative vote is to explain why they voted against it and not turn it into a question poll! That's all I'm saying to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u508	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Let's continue with § 18. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u509	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev § 18 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u510	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u511	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to support our proposal that we have made for § 18 to fall because what is done is a retroactive action. The proposal with the update of the 2018 budget must be made with a separate proposal, not with the 2019 budget. This is a vicious practice and the Law is violated! I ask you to support the proposal we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u512	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. 140 MPs voted: 47, against 65, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 17 respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 99, against 54, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u513	Proposal of the MPs Nadia Zhekova and Violeta Zheleva: I'm sorry, In Transitional and Final Provisions, to establish § 18a: 18a. In the Labour Code in art. 261 words the amounts set by the Council of Ministers shall be replaced by 30 per cent for each hour of work or part of it. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u514	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u515	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we are making relates to an amendment to the Labour Code, namely the regulations relating to night work. Night work is regulated, the rate for night work is regulated in the Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary and from 2007 it amounts to 25 cents. It is high time, and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy points it out in response to a parliamentary question that it is necessary to seek the solution through labour law. In this regard, and in view of the fact that, when the rate is indexed in the way in which it was introduced by this amendment to the Labour Code, revenue will take place in the revenue section of the budget. This is why we are making this proposal for amendments to Transitional and Final Provisions, and our proposal is that every working night hour is indexed by 30 percent on the agreed remuneration. We believe that this will solve the issue of a fairer wage for all those 400,000 workers who work at night, which is extremely harmful to health. As you know, art. 262 of the Labour Code regulates overtime and rates for it are regulated precisely in the Labour Code. Therefore, our proposal is that night work should be regulated there. I hope you will support our proposal and protect all those 400,000 people who work in these harmful working conditions at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u516	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva for the creation of § 18a, which the Commission does not support. Vote 148 MPs: 52, against 77, abstain 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u517	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18. The Law on excises and tax warehouses makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 6 the word "banderolla" is replaced by the "useful packaging." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 4 t. 2 the word "banderolla" is replaced by the package "useful." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The fifth sentence is deleted and, in the previous sentence, the third sentence becomes the second sentence and in it, the words "and the price per unit' are deleted. (b) Paragraph 14 shall be repealed. (c) in para. 20 other characteristic features for the relevant Banderols shall be commaded and added to the statement for tobacco products shall only reflect the type, issue and total number of Banderols. 4 in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2, p. 1 the word "banderolla" is replaced by the "useful packaging."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u518	Statements? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u519	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the Law on excises and tax warehouses Mrs. Stoyanova proposes to create a new § 19, in which she replaces the word "Banderol" with "User packaging" and in para. 20 adds: The content of the report reflects only the type, issue and total number of Banderols. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would like to say the following. It's been a year and a half since I've been here, a more lobbying law, a more lobbying proposal, sorry, I haven't seen one! If Mrs. Stoyanova were in the room right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u520	I'm here! [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u521	I didn't see you. [[Applause and cheering: "Eee!" by GERB.]] I apologize, Mrs. Stoyanova! I would like to address you and suggest that you withdraw your proposal. Furthermore, I am obliged to warn that if the MPs today, now, vote on the proposal, it will damage the state and the one adopted in art. 1, para. 1, I, t. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1, t. 4 The value added tax will fall catastrophically and the amount already voted by the National Assembly - 10 billion 830 million - will not be fulfilled, even if the BSP for Bulgaria is ruling tomorrow. [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize again, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u522	Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u523	I can't help but take the floor because I've just been accused of lobbying. This is another accusation against me about lobbying, which I'm used to, isn't it? It is surprising to me that it did not happen to develop the thesis of someone from the Budget Committee, where we are discussing this very thoroughly with our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and everyone else, but becoming the highly respected doctor. With respect to your profession, but as we call it in our profession: our respect for us you are. I mean, there's nothing lobbying about it. These are quite normal procedures that apply in other European countries and in Bulgaria are applied in the same way. Everything that is written on the Banderola has texts and will be recorded on the appropriate box. This means that the administrative burden for business will really be reduced and in this sense there is lobbying for the administrative burden for business when the rates are changed, and this will happen, by the way, very soon from 1 January next year, there will be no need to scrap out thousands of bands and boxes. So please, don't listen to the respectable doctor, because after all, the excise tax bill I think should be commented on by financiers. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u524	A line? Here's a line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u525	Mrs. Stoyanova, I expected you to react this way, and that is why I would like to ask you a question that is purely professional in your field. In the entire budget we have been here for so long, in the Chamber is constantly quoted the central budget - thank God the minister is here too. Tell me, where is this central budget? What revenue does he have, what expenses he has, who controls him? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u526	Please, colleagues, quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u527	Things that we ordinary, regular MPs, who are from other specialties, ask ourselves. Unfortunately, there is no answer so far. He's gone for years when you've been here in this National Assembly and we don't know when we'll get him. Because with what I have done as a speech, I am defending this budget, which is the central of Bulgaria, who will probably ever, someone will see it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u528	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u529	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, Mrs. Stoyanova! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u530	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u531	Mrs. Stoyanova, my line is to you that you neglected to explain to the colleague doctor that on all the Banderols it says "Active Banderol." This means that they apply to excise duty and not to VAT. Perhaps you should have explained to them that from next year, according to European legislation, we will have another system for registering, recording and tracking each box, each stack, every single masterbox. So this problem, which you are referring to, has long since dropped out, and this proposal is absolutely necessary and normal, and it does not concern VAT, regardless of which budget you think excise duty is in, and it is not used boxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u532	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Third line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 18 supported by the Commission. Vote 165 MPs: 110, against 38, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u533	There is a proposal of the National Representative Mena Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19. .....19......................................................................... In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. Art....) 174 is amended as follows: "Collective investment schemes, national investment funds and other alternative investment funds. Art. 174. The collective investment schemes which are admitted to public offering in the Republic of Bulgaria, national investment funds and alternative investment funds established for the implementation of financial instruments on the basis of financial agreements within the meaning of art. 38 (7) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OB, L 347/320 of 20 December 2013) under the Law on the Activity of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings are not subject to corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u534	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 19. Vote 164 MPs: 119, against 37, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u535	Paragraph 19 is an importer. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u536	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20, supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 120 against 35, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u537	Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: '21. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2019, with the exception of § 16 and § 17 which shall enter into force on the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union and § 18, which shall enter into force on 20 May 2019. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u538	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u539	Madam President, I am making a proposal for a technical correction in § 21 of the Commission report, where the words 1, § 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u540	I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 166 MPs: 110, 56 abstentions. I shall put to the vote the version of § 20, which shall become § 21, with the correction just made, supported by the Commission. They voted 170 MPs: 113 against 57 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u541	We remain to vote Appendix to art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u542	I shall vote on the Annex to art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Vote 165 MPs: 109, against 49, abstention 7. The proposal is adopted, and with this the State Budget Act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u543	Thank you, colleagues, for your patience and constructive work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u544	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u545	Seconds more, guys. I would also like to thank the parties who supported the texts in the Law and the parties who had an alternative view. The Constitutional Court long ago ruled that the State Budget Act is a special law insofar as it does not constitute a law in the form that is customary for legislative practice. It represents a forecast that for me next year is good. I am optimistic that the budget will be able to be implemented because our society next year will be more successful and richer, and colleagues had a different vision of how to allocate costs. But that's the attitude of executive power. It has the Constitution's reserved perimeter to determine through budget spending its view of policy. I thank my opposition colleagues that this year the debate was aimed precisely at what policies to be conducted next year. Thank you. Have a good rest, have a good night. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-29.u546	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I'm adjourning today's session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
