ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we're meeting overtime today. The National Assembly's work programme for the extraordinary plenary session on 6 November 2018, Tuesday, at 1300: "1." The first vote of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Bill for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. 2. The first vote of the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. 3. The first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The point is until the presentation of the reports on the Bill is completed. Colleagues, we voted on the programme, so we move on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2019 Who will present us the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I request that a procedure for admission to the Chamber be allowed Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, and Dr. Decho Dechev, Governor of the NHIF. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet! Take your seats. Please vote on the proposed procedure by Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a problem with the registration. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Hamid, take it easy! They forgot your consoles the other day. [[(Laughter) It's a thrill. Partial applause.)]] Let them remember a little then. [[Replys from DPS. A line from the MP Yordan Tsonev.]] I always enjoy the presence of all parliamentary groups, Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's be serious, Mr. Hamid. Have all the colleagues been able to vote? Vote 196 MPs: for 176, against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u4	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance At a meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister, Director of Staff; Minister of Health, Minister Kiril Ananiev; National Health Insurance Fund President and Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Decho Dechev, Governor, Dr. Yordanka Peneva, Deputy Governor; representatives of the word, employer and patient organizations, as well as representatives of the trade unions. The bill was presented by Minister Kiril Ananiev. The main indicators of the NHIF's 2019 budget are the following: I. Revenues and transfers "All: In the revenue section of the 2019 budget, total revenue and transfers of 4 299,6 million are expected to take place. BGN, or with 439,6 million. lv. More than 2018. Health insurance revenues are proposed to amount to 4 236,8 million. lv. or 418.4 million. lv. More than 2018. Of the total amount of health insurance income of 4 236,8 million. lv. For health insurance contributions, 2,842,3 million are expected to occur. lv. or 286,0 million. lv. More than 2018, and transfers to health insurance from the central budget of 1 394.6 million. BGN, or with 132,4 million. lv. more than the transfer for 2018 II. The total amount of EUR 4 350,0 million was estimated at EUR 4 350,0 million. lv. This amount is 490.0 million. lv. More than the amount for 2018. Within the proposed amount for total costs and transfers, only 4 345.0 million are provided for expenditure only. lv. and to provide transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and to budgetary organisations that have concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the NHIF are 5.1 million. lv. On the total cost, 4,345.0 million. lv. For current expenditure, 4 212,8 million is offered. BGN, with this amount being greater by 477.0 million. lv. Out of the same expenditure for 2018; for the acquisition of non-financial assets for 2019, 5,0 million are planned. BGN as much as it is in 2018. From the amount of current expenditure 4 212,8 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2019 are estimated at an amount of 4 116, 4 million. BGN, or more by 454, 3 million. lv. from the 2018 Act. These funds shall be allocated as follows: 1. For primary outpatient medical care with 17.8 million. lv. more than 2018 2. For specialized outpatient medical care with 28.4 million. lv. more than 2018 3. For dental aid with 10,0 million. lv. more than 2018 4. For medical-diagnostic activity with 10,0 million. lv. more than 2018 5. For medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancies and medicinal products for life-threatening bleeding and emergency surgery in patients with congenital coagulopathy, under hospital care, the NHIF will pay with 117.8 million. lv. more than 2018 6. For medical devices administered in hospital medical care with 6.0 million. lv. more than 2018 7. For hospital care with 176,9 million. lv. more than 2018 8. For other health insurance payments, the Bill offers an amount of 160,4 million. BGN, or 87,4 million. lv. More than 2018, including the entire amount is for medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems. The NHIF's 2019 budget proposed staff costs of 41,3 million. BGN, with this amount being greater than the amount of staff expenditure for 2018 by 3.6 million. lv. For 2019, payments on account of the funds from the transfer to the Ministry of Health under para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or with 19,0 million. lv. more than 2018. This amount is intended to be spent on: 1. Medicinal products for vaccines and their application activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act. 2. Activities for health-insured persons including: intensive treatment, complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with psychiatric conditions and complex dispensary surveillance in patients with skin-veneric diseases. 3. Activities for health-insured women under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act. 4. Sums per art. 37, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act no change is envisaged. 5. Activities related to treatment of persons up to the age of 18. 6. Activities related to treatment of persons over 18 years of age under art. 82, para. 1a and 6 of the Health Act. In 2019, the amount of the cost of acquiring non-financial assets of 5,0 million is also maintained. lv. III. The NHIF budget bill for 2019 provides for a negative budget balance of 50,4 million. lv. with a source of funding the availability of NHIF on the BNB account at the beginning of the period. IV. With the transitional and final provisions of the Bill are proposed changes in the Law on Health Insurance, the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, the Law on Medical Institutions, the Law on Health and other Laws, and the more essential are: - Establishment of the Medical Supervision Agency as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Health, such as the recipient of the assets, liabilities, records, rights and obligations of the Medical Audit Executive Agency and of the Transplant Executive Agency without resulting in additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health and the State Budget for 2019. - Introduction of preliminary control for the establishment of new hospital care facilities by giving consent by the National Assembly and extending the activities of existing medical institutions by giving consent by the Council of Ministers. - Deleting the existing accreditation procedure for medical institutions for their overall medical activities and/or individual medical activities. - Regulation of the establishment and maintenance of the National Health Information System, the aim is to establish a database that contains complete information about the health status of each person, for the needs of all subsequent medical activities - diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, medical expertise, prevention, dispanserization, etc. - Regulation of the establishment and maintenance by the National Expert Committee of an information database for all persons who have passed through TelK/NELK to establish permanently reduced performance/type and degree of disability. - Regulation of mandatory structure and content of the medical standards, which within three months of the promulgation of the changes will be drawn up for all specialties. - Introduction of financial rules for the realization of the activities of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care and complex oncology centers, the control rules will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. - New payment mechanisms for medicinal products and medical devices are envisaged. - The administration of the activities carried out at the moment by the Center for the Treatment of Children and the Commission for Treatment Abroad is transferred to the NHIF and the financial resources will be provided by the Ministry of Health through transfer. The process will take place without taking away existing rights of patients in need for access to treatment. A discussion was held on the bill, where different opinions and opinions were expressed. National Representative Georgi Mihailov of the BSP Parliamentary Group pointed out that the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act and listed several reasons for this. People's representative Nigiar Jaffer of the DPS Parliamentary Group also expressed dissatisfaction with the amendments proposed in the Transitional and Final Regulations in 16 main and structurally defining the Health System Act and insisted that the texts regulating the National Assembly grant approval for medical institutions, as well as those re-licensing about 15 thousand hospitals. People's representative Kalin Popovski of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" has voiced support for the budget, pointing out that this is an expected budget in line with the growth of gross domestic product. The President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Ivan Madzharov expressed principle support for the NHIF Budget Bill in view of the increased funds in the health sector. He proposed to eliminate the possibility that funds voted on on the individual items by the National Assembly could be transferred to each other by a decision of the Supervisory Board, as this would distort the budget voted by the National Assembly. Mr. Madzharov pointed out that the re-entry of medical institutions for outpatient care is a completely unnecessary administrative measure affecting more than 14 thousand practices. Support was also expressed on the proposal to prescribe cost-effective medicines, but this should be secured by very clear criteria so as to eliminate the possibility for the treating physician to be sanctioned. The Vice-President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Georgi Dimov supported the overall increase of the budget of NHIF for 2019 as well as the amendments to the Health Insurance Act included in the Transitional and Final Provisions. His view is that the increase in funds for dental aid is insufficient and calls into question the assurance of the conclusion of the contracts under art. 59 of the Health Insurance Act. The President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union Professor Ilko Getov pointed out that they believe the budget is balanced and does not raise any concerns. The President of the National Patient Organization Dr. Stanimir Hasrdzhiev pointed out that the bill regarding the figures does not contain cardinal changes compared to previous years. He expressed concern about the changes to many laws without having the necessary public discussion. The same opinion was taken by Associate Professor Lyubomir Kirov, Chairman of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria. The representative of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mr. Vasil Todorov firmly stated that they do not support the NHIF Budget Bill, and according to him real measures should be taken related to e-health payments in clinical pathways, with the removal of false hospital and unreal healthcare services, with the limitation and elimination of the abuse of drugs entirely. Dr. Sonia Dzhevizova, representative of the directors of the district centres for transfusion haematology, who, with the amendments to the NHIF Budget Bill, are intended to be transformed into a unit of the National Centre for Transfiguration Hematology, pointed out the risks of the pyramid structuring of the transfusion-hematological system, which is currently decentralised and consistent with all the requirements of the European Regulations and the Directive on Blood and Blood Ingredients since 2002. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria in the face of its Chairman Mr. Vasil Velev does not object to the proposed changes in the draft budget of the NHIF, as there is a will for reforms to increase control and improve the quality of medical services. He expressed concern that the vision that currently exists for the information system will not result in the expected results. Furthermore, the adoption of the proposal to introduce new medical activities after a decision of the Council of Ministers will lead to distortions of competition in the sector and to a delay in the introduction of new methods and technologies. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................... 13 MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Budget Bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 802 01 45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The second report belongs to the Committee on Health. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u6	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 No 802-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, held on 1 November 2018, a Draft Budget for the National Health Insurance for 2019 was reviewed and discussed, No 802-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Vladislav Goranov, the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, the Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, the Governor of NHIF Dr. Decho Dechev, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, who briefed the MPs on the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. The planned revenue and transfers amount to 4 billion. The Commission 603 thousand. lv. The funds calculated shall be subject to the admission of a health insurance contribution of 8 per cent, reflecting the effect of an increase in the maximum social security income, the change in the minimum wage, the minimum social security thresholds and the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, as well as the effect on the amount of transfers for health insurance from an increase in the part of the insurance income on which the State contributes health contributions to the persons insured at the expense of the State budget of 55 per cent of 2016 and 5 per cent per year from each subsequent year until the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is reached under art. 40, para. 4a of the Health Insurance Act (Health Insurance Act). The employer's remuneration and health insurance ratio for 2019 is 60-40. The planned costs and transfers amount to 4 billion. 350 million. Three thousand. BGN, of which 4 billion 116 million. 396 thousand. 200 leva. they're for health insurance payments. The planned funds provide for the purchase of medical assistance within the scope of compulsory health insurance guaranteed by the NHIF budget. Mr. Ananiev stressed that in 2019 the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, medical diagnostic activity, hospital medical care, dental care and medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes are increased. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is three percent of the income collected from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and amounts to 127 million. 105,000. 300 leva. The Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, the Health Act, the Medical Institutions Act, the Medicinal Products Act in Human Medicine and other laws aimed at optimizing and increasing the effectiveness of the health care system, as well as improving control activities in the sector. The proposed changes are in the following directions: - Switching to the NHIF of the administration of the activities carried out at present by the Center for the treatment of children and the Commission for treatment abroad. - Establishment of an Agency for Medical Supervision as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Health to regulate and control medical activities. - Deleting the existing accreditation procedure for medical institutions for their overall medical activities and/or individual medical activities. - Regulation of the possibility for medical institutions to establish and participate in self-assessment systems and rating systems to assess the quality of their medical and organisational activities and financial and administrative management activities. Participation in systems is envisaged to be voluntary, with medical institutions obliged to disclose the systems in place and to maintain up-to-date information on their functioning on the Internet with a view to informing patients and other stakeholders. - Regulation of the establishment and maintenance of the National Health Information System by the Ministry of Health and of an information database for all persons passing through TelK/NELK to establish a permanently reduced performance/type and degree of disability by the National Expert Medical Commission. - Normal definition of mandatory structure and content of medical standards, which within three months of the promulgation of the law in the State Gazette will be prepared for all specialties. - Regulation of the contents of the Rules of Good Medical Practice and the Rules of Good Medical Practice in Health Care. - Introduction of financial rules for the realization of the activities of state and municipal medical institutions for hospital care and complex oncology centres, the control rules will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. - Establishment of expert advice on medical specialities or individual medical activities to assist the Minister of Health in specific medical matters. - Publication on the website of the Ministry of Health of information on medical-statistical and financial indicators of hospital and complex oncology centres, which are financed from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and/or from the state budget for each quarter, such as medical-statistical and financial indicators will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health, agreed with the National Statistical Institute. - Introduction of a requirement for medical institutions to disclose all the prices of medical activities on which they work and issue financial documents to patients for the treatment carried out. - Expand the control powers of the newly established Agency for Medical Supervision and of the National Health Insurance Fund. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by the Chairman of the word organization, Dr. Ivan Madzharov. He expressed support for the increase in the expenditure portion of the budget, enabling the prices and volumes of underfunded clinical pathways in hospital care to be increased. Dr. Madzharov stressed that the word organization supports the government's will to carry out a comprehensive reform of the healthcare system in Bulgaria, but objected to the approach that partially implements this reform through the proposed amendments and additions of the laws based on the transitional and final provisions of the bill. The Vice-President of the Bulgarian Dental Union, Dr. Georgi Dimov, informed the MPs that despite the nominal increase provided for in the budget of the NHIF for 2019 the funds for dental assistance are insufficient compared to the volume of activities planned to be carried out next year, which in turn will make the work of dentists difficult and will have a negative impact mainly on the dental health of the Bulgarian citizens. Prof. Ilko Getov presented the opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. The President of the word organization expressed support for the increase in the costs of medicinal products, which will ensure the access of patients to timely therapy in 2019. Regarding the amendments proposed by the Transitional and Final Regulations of the bill, Professor Getov pointed out that after § 13 there are a number of paragraphs that raise serious concerns and especially § 34 concerning the amendment of art. 76 of the Health Insurance Act. He explained that the proposals on the specific texts of the proposed provisions are set out in detail in the written opinion of the word organisation and expressed hope that they will be discussed and adopted between the first and second votes on the bill. The President of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria Dr. Lyubomir Kirov informed the MPs that the intended means for primary outpatient medical care are not only extremely insufficient, but their distribution is irrational. He pointed out that the publicly requested commitments by the Minister of Health to place emphasis on extra-hospital aid are not supported by the relevant actions in the NHIF Budget Bill for 2019. Dr. Kirov stressed that in recent years the vicious practice with the Transitional and Final Provisions is confirmed to propose amendments and additions to a number of laws, which takes away the possibility for the participants in the health system to express their opinion and opinion. He added that the proposals are irrational and will not have the expected effect to improve the access and quality of medical care, health and economic indicators and the structure and organization of the healthcare system in Bulgaria. Dr. Sonia Dzhevizova briefed the MPs with the opinion of the directors of the Regional Centres for Transfiguration Hematology, stating that the proposed structural changes and the withdrawal of the independence of the district centres are unfounded and will result in a disruption of the normal functioning of the system. She stressed that the provision of blood and blood components is an element of national security, which is why any change should be carefully considered and consulted with all stakeholders, including established specialists and experts in the field of transfusionology. Dr. Dzhavizova expressed hope that during the second vote of the Bill, the proposed amendments to the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood transfusions will be removed from its content. Mr. Vasil Velev, Chairman of the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria and Mr. Vasil Todorov, Secretary General of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry took part in the discussion. It was pointed out that the proposed bill noted the government's will for reforms, for increasing control in spending funds and for improving the quality of health services. At the same time, for another year the structure of the budget of the NHIF is not changed and again the largest resource is envisaged for hospital care and medicinal products, and the prevention and prevention remains underfunded. The bill does not provide for measures for the development of e-health when considering the payment of clinical pathways, for the removal of fake hospital and unreal healthcare services, and there are no measures to limit drug abuse. A recommendation was made in the second vote of the bill to reconsider and reconsider the proposal for new medical activities to be authorised by the Council of Ministers, as this measure will result in a delay in their introduction and a lack of real competition between economic operators. Dr. Stanimir Hasrdzhiev, Chairman of the National Patient Organization, expressed support for the planned increase in funds under the budget of the NHIF for 2019, but strongly opposed the proposed amendments and additions to a number of laws with the previous and final provisions of the bill, which do not provide for the participation of representatives of national representative organisations to protect patients' rights. Thus, patients who should be at the centre of the healthcare system remain isolated from the decision-making process in the sector. He pointed out that during the vote on the draft by the Council of Ministers, the possibility of the representative organisations for protection of patients' rights to receive a state subsidy was removed despite the clearly stated commitment by the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The removal of the possibility of obtaining a state subsidy for the activities of these representative organisations makes their work difficult and puts them at a disadvantage to other participants in this process. In conclusion, Dr. Hasrdzhiev stressed that the National Patient Organization does not support the proposed changes to basic health laws as they are not put to public discussion with all stakeholders and no detailed impact assessment has been carried out. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the bill and raised specific questions regarding the possibility for the NHIF to ensure the provision of affordable and quality medical assistance to all health-insured Bulgarian citizens within the framework of the proposed budget for 2019. They stressed that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system without the creation of mechanisms for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the National Health Insurance Fund budget. Some of the MPs strongly objected to the approach by which substantial changes to basic laws governing the structure and functioning of the health system are made, with the transitional and final provisions of the bill. It was stressed that the proposed changes are not subject to public consultation and are not accompanied by a preliminary impact assessment such as the requirements of art. 26 of the Law on Legislative Acts. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 802-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u7	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 802-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 31 October 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 802-01-45. The meeting was attended by Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister of Health. The bill was presented by Ms. Nacheva. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to provide affordable, quality and timely medical care to medical institutions, to ensure the package of health insurance activities within the scope of compulsory health insurance, to increase financial discipline and to reduce delays. The objective is to be implemented by an additional 490 million. lv. in relation to budget 2018. Health insurance revenues are formed from 67% health insurance contributions and 33% health insurance transfers. The budget allocation has been increased by 490 million. BGN, of which 3,7 million are allocated to staff. lv. and 454 million for health insurance payments. The NHIF budget is planned for a negative budget balance of 50,4 million. lv. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide for changes to a number of laws. The proposal for a change in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control concerns the privatisation regime of the separate parts of medical institutions with state and municipal participation, with the means of privatisation being directed entirely to the accounts of the medical institutions and can be used both for investments directly related to the subject of activity and to satisfy the interests of creditors after the authorisation of the capital owner. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria asked a number of questions: what are the expectations for the completion of budget 2018; with what part of the budget 2019 will be covered old duties; where will the funds from the increased budget of the NHIF be directed; what is the guarantee that after covering the current duties of hospitals, they will not accumulate new ones; will the new control structure also audit the activities of the NHIF; what is the deadline for the entry into force of the integrated hospital care system. Members of parliament Petar Kanev and Adlen Shevked described as ridiculous the proposal the National Assembly to validate the opening of new hospitals. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Nacheva. After the end of the discussion and the vote by 11 votes, 7 votes against and without abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft budget bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, No 802-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Dr. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u10	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, the most important thing in discussing the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is the financial parameters and this is the undisputed part of the budget, according to which the costs of health insurance payments are increased in total, reaching up to 4 billion. Three hundred and 900,000. lv. The increase in expenditure for 2019 is 489 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. to the 2018 budget The 2019 Budget Bill provides for the following distribution of health insurance payments by type: - for the primary outpatient medical care - 225 million. BGN, or we have an increase of 17 million. $800,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • - for specialized outpatient medical care the funds are 250 million. $700,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - for dental aid, the costs to be incurred in 2019 amount to 167 million. BGN, the increase is 10 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - medical diagnostic activity will be within 90 million. lv. for the next fiscal year, as the increase here is 10 million. lv. It's most significant in the increase in hospital care. There, the estimated costs exceed 2 billion.. they will amount to 2 billion. $150,000. BGN, with an increase of 176 million. 903 thousand. £700. As regards medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for home treatment in the country and medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy in hospital care, the increase in costs is 117 million. $800,000. lv. A positive in this budget is the detailed signing of the types of costs, separating the costs of medicinal products, medical devices, dietary foods for home treatment, those for oncology therapy. Expenditure on medical devices is also increased within the framework of the budget. There, the increase is of the order of 6 million. lv. As regards other health insurance payments for medical care, costs increased to 160 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. This year's health insurance payments allow for an increase of 127 million with the Cashier's Reserve, which is intact. $100,000. BGN, so the funds available to meet health insurance payments in the budget of the National Health Insurance said for 2018 total 4 billion. The Commission Five hundred thousand. lv. The new year in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is the opportunity to use the funds accumulated in the accounts of the National Insurance Fund in BNB. This was often a question that was the subject of speculation about whether the National Health Insurance Fund has a separate account and whether these funds will ever be used? This is why the budget this year has a negative budget balance, as a source of funding are precisely the stocks in BNB, which amount to, as I have already said, 50 million. 400,000. lv. The changes in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the National Health Insurance Fund are in several directions. I believe that those of them, which enable the effective spending of the funds for health insurance payments, must be strongly supported. What are these possibilities? On the one hand, for effective spending of the funds, on the other - meeting the needs of all Bulgarian citizens. I believe that it is extremely positive that the Health Act extends the scope of the activities paid by transfer from the Ministry of Health to ensure access to therapy for uninsured Bulgarian citizens. This is a commitment to be made precisely by the Ministry of Health and not by enabling the uninsured to receive a package of medical assistance, as we have heard, that is foreseen in the so-called Alternative Budget proposed by the BSP. In BSP's budget, giving the opportunity to provide a package for health insurance, there is a risk to break down the entire health insurance. Because by giving access to the uninsured, you give others a chance to think about it: why should I be provided, and anyway the state provides us with access to medical care? Please, fellow Members, very carefully consider your proposals and these are precisely in the context of medical relevance, and the medical appropriateness requires exactly what has been done by this team of the Ministry of Health to enable them to be met by funding from the budget of the Ministry for intensive treatment of health-insured patients, because it is urgent patients in a severe condition, to provide access to complex dispensary surveillance for patients with psychiatric and skin-venerous diseases, to provide medical activities in patients with infectious diseases on a list defined by a minister's regulation, including to prevent epidemiological risk. A very important element of the changes is really the introduction of data exchange through legal regulation for the needs of medical expertise, something that will increase efficiency and reduce abuse in this area. The regulation of a legal framework of the National Health Information System is a decisive step forward in implementing the programme of this management, because this system will enable it to be processed, stored information about the health status of the population by creating and maintaining an electronic health record of each Bulgarian citizen. In the changes that are regulated in the Health Insurance Act, we find it extremely positive to regulate effective spending of medicinal products by allowing for wider bargaining of concessions. We believe that it will be very useful to reformatate the medical standards. This is regulated in the Law on Medical Institutions and the introduction of clear rules on the content of medical standards, because there has indeed been a very broad interpretation and opportunities to make standards, unfortunately, to the detriment of one or another medical institution. I believe that the mechanism for determining the contents of medical standards and giving time for a new formulation of medical standards will allow for improving the quality of medical care provided by medical institutions and at the same time will make these requirements standard so that there are no harmed medical facilities. In the context of the changes concerning the Law on Word Organizations, I also believe that it is positive to set deadlines for the establishment of the Rules on Good Medical Practice, respectively dental practice. Here, however, we need to listen to the opinion of the word organization -- deadlines to be redefined and to allow for an update of the Rules of Good Medical Practice, as well as medical standards -- because medical science is developing continuously and it is important that we have the opportunity to comply with our regulations with developments in medicine. I would like to emphasise that we have definitely been seeking dialogue and have heard all the opinions in the course of the discussion of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. This is also evident from the discussions we have been having so far, and the opinions requested by all interested parties are also a fact. I declare that we are in a continuous dialogue with the team of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund and make a commitment between first and second reading to revise the proposals that we consider unacceptable. First of all, I believe that the structure of the transfusion haematological centers should not be centralised. I believe that the established decentralised system at this stage meets the requirements and the commitments that these centres fulfil. We will take into account the doubt of the representatives of the working and managing centers because I believe that the big challenge that lies ahead in 2019 is precisely the introduction of new high-tech methods for blood testing and its products in order to improve their quality and protect against various infectious intoxicants, and at the same time guaranteeing the security of blood and blood products for Bulgarian citizens. Changes in this system should ensure patient safety. On the other hand, it will be an extremely heavy administrative burden if the newly established Agency for Medical Supervision requires mandatory re-licensing of medical institutions. I believe that it will not have the necessary capacity to re-evaluate within one year after the introduction of the new medical standards, for example, all practices for outpatient medical care. With regard to hospital care facilities, I think that it is wiser to make one without requiring a mandatory application from them, and to carry out a check that does not burden them administratively, to allow for the electronic exchange of documents between the Agency and the medical institutions. With the consent of the Ministry of Health, the necessary changes between first and second readings must allow precisely this version of control on behalf of the Agency without medical institutions to be the active party to this situation. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise that we are ready to submit proposals which, in agreement with the word organisation, will enable the powers of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to be limited in terms of transferring funds from one parameter of the budget to another. The word organisation believes that it is the preservation of these parameters of the budget, and this is also our belief, that it will mainly ensure their effective spending in the interests of medical aid contractors, with expenditures in each of the budget items being committed to the relevant ones operating in this activity, namely those implementing the medicinal products, which will have self-control in relation to expenditure in the column on medicinal products. This also concerns primary outpatient and specialized hospital medical care, as well as hospital care facilities. It should be very carefully reconsidered and the pre-execution introduced in some of the paragraphs of the proposed amendments, because I believe that it is lawful and appropriate to remain now the existing provisions of the Health Insurance Act, which allow for prior implementation after assessing the existence of conditions under art. 60, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code. In view of the public importance of the activities of medical aid contractors, the specifics of each particular case should be taken into account and not the law should allow for prior implementation, automatically presuming that, in any case, the conditions of communication by me are available, a member of the Administrative Procedure Code, because this may violate the access of patients to medical care, as in most cases it is a question of medical establishments which are sometimes the only ones in the territory of a given region. We should also think carefully about the restrictive clause not to pay any activity in the presence of a doctor who is not on a basic employment contract, because in many of the country's remote regions we have visiting specialists operating in the interests of Bulgarian patients. And then, when we have a limit on the budgets and expenditures of hospital care facilities, such an exception in the interest of Bulgarian patients will in no way violate the budgetary parameters. I believe that if we have constructive behaviour and government and opposition, together with all interested in the sector, we will achieve these changes between first and second readings, which will be in the interest of the Bulgarian citizens to achieve better, better and more effective medical assistance based on the increased financial parameters of the budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Replies to Dr Daritkova's statement? I can't see. Docent Yordanov, come in for a statement. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] Docent Yordanov, wait, Mr. Kirilov has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u12	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the joint report on the two bills amending the Criminal Code with importers The Council of Ministers and Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. This joint report was announced last Thursday. I propose a three-day increase in the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! In connection with the vote, I demand that a name check be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Please give the list of names. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. [[Noise and lines. People's representatives from the parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are leaving the Chamber.]] Colleagues, take your seats. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - absent Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent 129 Members of the Parliament are present. We have a quorum. Let's move on. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u16	Procedure, Madam President. In view of the verification carried out, I am proposing that a draft decision be discussed and voted on with regard to the Members of the National Assembly who have not participated in this roll call check for today. They shall not be subject to art. 10, para. 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We'll discuss this at the Chairman's Council. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, we continue by voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure for the Bill for extension between first and second reading with three days of Draft Law No 854-01-73, amendments to the Penal Code with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Daniel Kirilov; and Project No 802-01-36, of the Council of Ministers. This is about an extension of the deadline that Mr. Kirilov made. They voted 114 MPs: 109, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's second proposal under art. 10, para. 1, 2, and 3, which he did just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u18	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u19	You weren't in the back room for a proposal, Mr. Svilensky. They voted 122 MPs: 100, against 6, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. Docent Yordanov, come in. The debates on the National Health Insurance Fund budget continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It would be good when we discuss the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Minister of Health and the Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u21	It's them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u22	This is what we asked the opposition to do, and he arrived immediately. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues, a year and a half in this National Assembly we are analyzing the state of health care. We are talking about the measures to be taken to make it more adequate for every Bulgarian citizen. The health community in Bulgaria united around several things that we thought would be the main parameters of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Who are they? First of all, an information health insurance system with a personal health card. Without that thing... [[Reply.]] This is working, Mr. Minister, but in the second auction that you have launched, there are no important tools that concern electronic epicrisis, an electronic recipe that are essentially. At least they're not in the public domain, which I've been tracking. Secondly, the assessment of medical activities. Without this thing, no reform, no budget in any country in the world can be made. Thirdly, the conversion of the pyramid between hospital and outpatient care and priority of outpatient care. Mr. Minister said that, you see, doctors from outpatient care can't spend that money on an increased budget. Yeah, 'cause that's the rules now. If we change the rules in order for them to have a wider scope of medical care, this could be realized because it is cheaper, it is more effective and so does every developed not only European country. In the Transitional and Final Regulations, there are things that frankly do not correspond to a National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. I'm not gonna be too much of a talker, I'm just gonna mention some of them. First of all, permission to operate hospitals by the National Assembly is nonsense, this cannot be spoken at all! After that, the unification of the hemotransfusion centers so should this be done with the Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, provided that they have no bearing on the Health Insurance Fund budget?! The Health Insurance Fund will pay only those activities carried out by a doctor who has only one contract of employment. Doesn't that violate the Labor Code? Who in Bulgaria can ban a specialist, a professional, from working on the coded time, that is, a contract of employment and a half? And a lot of other things. Here comes the big question: whether this is a constitutional norm, whether it will cause a series of claims that can lead to blaming, if not the entire Health Insurance Budget Act, especially during the duration of these measures, to certain parts of it. About the numbers in the budget. Indeed, an increase between 480 and 490 million is envisaged. lv. At the same time, we are not aware of these payments that the Health Insurance Fund owes. These are payments for over-sales of medicines that will definitely have them. According to information from the Health Insurance Fund, the forecast is to be somewhere between 50 and 70 million by the end of the year. lv. Personally, I think there might be more. Secondly, the funds due for the treatment of Bulgarians abroad, and those who have been treated this year and have to be paid in the next year. Finally, something very important, which should find its solution anyway, is the payment of the claims won by Bulgarian hospitals to pay off the so-called preliminary activity. This thing has to happen, it's required by court decisions, and I don't know what needs to happen to start running it. These and many other things make us have reason not to support the proposed Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. Once again, what is important, we do not want to get into a situation where legal claims will blam the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u23	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Dr. Jaffer. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Today very few will talk about the numbers in this budget, although it gives about 500 million. lv. more about the health system. You honourable Members of the ruling majority know why this will happen. During the transitional and final provisions, fundamental structural changes are made, which centralize decision-making and therefore centralise, concentrate power in some structures that will be created in the hands of very few people. If these are not transitional solutions through the transitional provisions, this means that you are making an attempt at lasting overconcentration, for re-licensing corruption in healthcare. Why are you proposing changes like this? From laziness to save time or to save public debate and perhaps criticism? There is no answer to that question so far. Budget law is not a law in the real sense of the word. The lawmaker here uses the conditional term law. These are laws, but they only apply for one year. They regulate revenue and expenditure for the relevant year in the given area. They are not subject to public consultation, cannot be accepted on this short runway on which you prefer these transitional and final provisions to take place. No one answered why you were making these changes and did not contest the right of the ruling majority, whichever it is, to propose changes. However, there is a misguided legislative procedure here and there will probably be more talk about it today. The goal is transparent to avoid, to crush the debate. You use this track through the backyard and this is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts and some of you know it very well. I thought you guys were talking about a debate. I thought you were talking about a consensus. Why don't you look for him to hear our arguments and criticism before you propose these changes? Where would the Cashier's Supervisory Board propose these changes? Who gave them authority and who said they had a legislative initiative? A number of important solutions are offered - a little good, more thoughtless, and some of them are even harmful, and there is a frank nonsense that will come up next. We did not get an answer to the following questions: what does the Agency have in common with transplantation, medical supervision and medical supervision, except this is also an activity that needs to be controlled? Why exactly are you merging the transplant agency with the so-called medical audit? Is there any guarantee in the transfer of the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad that everything will be unimpeded? Who will cover the transport costs and the costs of the escorts? What will happen to the funds that are now a donation and which, although little, go as a donation by the people of the Bulgarian citizens? Is there a potential for the Commission in prices and reimbursement to make an objective assessment of health technologies? How is it that a body that will control and determine which medications to be included in the reimbursement list will objectively determine the qualities of this product and assess health technologies? Debate imitation is an imitation of activity. Imitation of activity, however, is a imitation of a consensus that you plead so much for. Isn't imitation of consensus an imitation of reform? The imitation of reform is a definite imitation of healthcare, although every year we give more than 500 million for healthcare. Justice requires that we say that there are also good moments in the proposals and I will list them: a positive moment is the creation of an information system or at least the first steps that are taken in this direction, the possible creation of registers. Based on this information system, and there is no way you can analyze how much money is for oncommediates because we don't have a working national cancer register. There is no register of diabetics, and for them the Cashier pays a lot of millions. There is no register of major social diseases and this is a huge problem. How will you determine development trends? How will you make your forecasts and financial analyses? It is absolutely unacceptable to unite behaviour in patients with the introduction of equal treatment. We need an individualised approach because we live in the time of the refined, personalized medicine, not the unification that you offer in the oncological expensive treatment. Moreover, funding genetic tests and individual treatment will save more money in oncology, and such a step would be in a qualitatively new direction, because all the patients can put them on the same treatment, but they will react differently, even if it is the most expensive and modern treatment, simply because we are all different from the Most High. Production policy only makes sense when, used and introduced, it releases another resource for the most innovative medicines, for the most modern when these patients do not respond to the other treatment. In this sense, cheap always comes out much more expensive in private and in public terms. Therefore, in our opinion, it is necessary, first of all, to rethink the prevention package.. to be effective, screening, aimed at early diagnosis of social diseases, and they are cardiovascular pathology, oncology, diabetes, hepatitis and so on; not formal reviews that lead to discontent among doctors that they cannot absorb money, and patients do not walk because they see no meaning from them. Secondly, rethinking the role of regulatory standards, so-called directions. There is no room for limits and restrictions here, because now we are expensive to bran, generous to flour and the ratio of extra-hospital/hospital help shows this categorically. The misunderstood role of saving in healthcare is a saving from prevention, from screening, from diagnostic methods and through regulatory standards and limits leads to late diagnosis, to expensive treatment, and the introduction of the use of the cheapest possible therapy damages not the budget, but the patient concerned is categorical. The lack of the possibility of healing, Mr. Minister, and financing of hospice, leads to new hospitalizations and the need for more and more money. I guess we should go back to these alphabetical truths and repeat them every time. It is not clear which health insurance model you will prefer from the two models presented. At this stage, however, it is crystal clear one... must return the social character of the National Health Insurance Fund. The transfer of more and more activities there is something that is happening this year, including those that are an explicit commitment of the state, is a mistake. The register has no potential to take on such activities to an infinity. The state doesn't mean cash register. The cashier is not an equal term, it is not an equal entity of the state, and it is in any normal country. Another point is that there is no European country that has a single cash register. According to the assumption, the National Health Insurance Fund is still an alphabetical truth, which we need to repeat, is an institution of a public nature that provides the payment of health services that the health insurance companies should receive, and not just that the Cassata performs all the functions and commitments of the state and specifically of the Ministry of Health. The aim is not to keep the budget, honourable Members! The aim is to bring better health to Bulgarian citizens with this money. At second reading we will suggest dropping at least three texts. Firstly, it is not the National Assembly's job to give permission to hospitals. This is clearly a nonsense, and we don't have the capacity to do that. It's not parliament's place to deal with this. Secondly, relicensing thousands of hospitals is illogical. This is really a re-evaluation of corruption. You need to find another way to evaluate the activities of medical institutions. There is a way to do it through medical standards and rules of good medical practice. Thirdly, the transformation of regional hemotransfusion centres leaves their normal functioning under threat because they are part of the national security of this country. We will not support this budget, not because we are opposition, but because we have principled remarks that I have tried to expose to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u25	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? There are no lines. Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs. Deputy Minister, Mr. Governor of NHIF! Many of the things that I was going to share here may have to repeat some of them have already been said by colleagues before me. We are discussing a very serious issue, not only because we are talking about a very significant amount of money, but mainly because it is about healthcare. The only consensus we have reached, Mr. Minister, at the end of last year, is that the system is sick, but we are starting to discuss a budget, and I allow myself to say this to you, with all my pain, which does not present us with any serious philosophy for the treatment of this pain. We have shared with you many times in private conversations and in the discussions in the Chamber that the balance between hospital and hospital care should be changed. This was also presented in the opinion of the World Health Organization, which was present at the round table you created. We have talked a lot about the fact that the balance has been broken with regard to the payment of hospital activities for medicinal products in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. None of this in the figures.. Let's not repeat them, you know them perfectly as an economist, did not happen in the proposals of the budget. Things have happened that are being proposed and are not clear how they will happen for the next 2019. We will propose specific things in terms of the numbers between first and second readings. I would like, in the context of my speech, to replicate my respected Dr. Daritkova, that it is not at all about the collapse of the model of funding for health care when it comes to clarifying what is the volume of funds coming out of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and which is being spent on health insecure. This is not just about emergency situations at all, it is about a number of socially significant diseases that fall under the Act and health institutions are obliged to treat such patients. In the presence of over 700 thousand. Health-insured people this creates an opportunity for an exceptional debalance, which the state needs to take into account in order to be able to react. In addition, with our other proposal, we consider to be very precise the movement of health insurance contributions in relation to pensioners and children, as it has been repeated many times by both the Doctor's Union and other professional organisations, and by us as a political force, that it is not clear whether all these transfers are carried out by the State in the course of the calendar year. So much for budget philosophy. We are aware that, in the context of a discussion, we may not be able to offer fantasy figures in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund with a view to endangering the budgetary stability of the state for 2019. Here, as my esteemed Dr. Jeffer says, we are not going to talk as much about figures as we will talk about something else, that in the transitional and concluding provisions is changing, and this has been explicitly highlighted in many of the speeches of the participants in the discussion of the budget in the three committees, over 16 laws, something which has also been noted by colleagues from the DPS, that it is contrary to the Law on Laws and constitutes, in essence, an absolutely unlawful measure. Now, however, so as not to mention that it is unlawful, let us go into the details. I will allow myself to be more detailed in their description and will repeat some so that we can see that there are indeed many things that are absolutely unprofessionally endured and follow between first and second reading to be seriously considered and the exact word is removed. I will only repeat what my colleague said here and before me "The involvement in the activities of the National Assembly at the opening of medical institutions is a professional nonsense which I do not know whether we could discuss at all anywhere, as is the professional nonsense of the Council of Ministers to engage in the opening of separate activities, of individual medical institutions or their closure. These are things that are not in the power at all, nor in the competence of these institutions, and are the first signs that in all this host of changes things are being done that absolutely unprofessionally solve problems or try to solve health problems. I'll take the liberty of pointing out one more thing. Once again, the moratorium on the opening of new activities within a Regional Health Insurance Fund remains. If such an activity has been revealed, and I have allowed myself to share it with you even during the discussion in committees, it means that leading hospitals, as are district hospitals in a given area, do not have an opportunity. As the main technological readiness of the treatment area is concentrated there, as well as joint consultations of individual seriously ill patients to restore the activity of such wards, since, you see, somewhere within the Regional Health Insurance Fund there are such medical facilities. We also believe that this needs to be removed because, in addition to violating the principles of competition, it also creates very serious organisational issues in the activities of individual fields of clinical medicine. I will reiterate something that is very important and which has also spoken by the Medical Union during the discussions, the so-called Rules of Good Medical Practice and the update of medical standards, the time limit given, the directive that is stretched and seized the functions of relevant institutions authorised by its professionality, such as the Medical Union, as is the Organisation of Health Care Professionals, specialized companies, to be transferred to the Agency for Medical Supervision, is absolutely unprofessional and will lead to very severe deviations. I must tell you that this could blow up the entire professional medical community. Moreover, in many of their speeches, colleagues from the professional community pointed out that the establishment, administration of pharmacotherapeutic guides without the participation of specialized medical companies will also lead to very serious problems in the implementation of complex and adequate medical care as necessary, and at a high professional level of our citizens. Next, a cardinal issue. The establishment of a medical supervision megaagency. I don't want to comment on everyone who is in the room, perhaps they have no relation to this issue, but those who have an idea of it can immediately ask themselves But not only that, this agency is replaced by the right, which has been said by colleagues a moment ago, to re-license one.. will not be a mistake if I say a cosmic number of medical institutions and practices, which within a calendar year will lead to such administrative tensions that neither licensing will end nor be effective. Then we ask ourselves: why does the principal of the Ministry of Health reject all these duties, functions and put them in place as a newly formed agency, which does not yet have its structure, philosophy, rules of order, and it is not known, and it is clear that in such an excessive concentration it will lose its role as an objective body, but will become hardly something that can only harm Bulgarian healthcare and not help it? Next, I do not want to spend a lot of time on this sick issue, there will probably be other people who will be talking about the Fund for the treatment of children abroad and its relocation. I asked you then, when this idea arose in the Chamber of the National Assembly, to carefully consider both you and the management of the National Health Insurance Fund where to go treatment abroad for elderly citizens and children, you know how sensitive the Bulgarian people are to the treatment of their children, the abolition of the Public Council, the mechanical relocation of this fund, without any arrangements, rules in the National Health Insurance Fund, which is an institution called primarily to deal with the payment of medical activity. I will ask you this question: how, when it cannot provide treatment in Bulgaria or provides it in a way that is relatively inadequate, and this is pointed out in the opinion of relatives and patients, their parents and public representatives, it or its representatives will decide whether these patients will be children or adults, and especially children, will go to treatment abroad. This is a question that will lead to very severe contradictions in society. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] We will not have a dialogue with you, Mr. Ananiev, now during my speech. I share with you that this is a poorly thought-out issue and will lead to consequences that are very serious to society. Next, an extremely important issue raised in a way that is also commented by the professional companies themselves who sent their letters to you. I don't know if you've come to know their opinion. This opinion is very serious, but I will share it with you. Spending efficiency is extremely important, but in this cost-effectiveness the way in which the definition is formed allows so many interpretations and distortions of the notion that it will hardly come to objective reality. Moreover, I would like to remind you that the effectiveness of one treatment is not determined only by the molecule or the drug that is used, but the conclusions, even more in the absence of registers, or conclusions based on the follow-up of several patients, as many of those diseases that are involved in the superinnovative means concern a limited number of patients. Such an assessment cannot be considered adequate and will again lead to crushing, just as colleagues said earlier, of the debate on the problem of efficiency, and its administrative solution will in no way help Bulgarian healthcare. Last but not least, one question that you have also addressed in the Transitional and Final Provisions.. This is the problem of professional qualification. I don't know where the long-term training of medical professionals suddenly takes place, and it's irrelevant. Higher education institutions, the Military Medical Academy, not to mention the Bulgarian Red Cross, and this is something very important, have no direct bearing on the continued qualification. The specialized companies have an attitude. All of this enables in practice to create some hollow regulations that will not be filled with content, and this problem, which is very important for modern medicine, will be left to the continued training of health personnel, without it having a serious development. Finally, I left for myself the.. as a specialist in haematology, this nonsense for the unification of the conversion centers of haematology. You need to seriously rethink this issue, to end this ultrapyramidal structure. There are also EU directives that have been violated in this decision. So I think that this issue deserves very, very serious attention, too, so that ultimately, when we look at all these transitional and concluding provisions, we ask ourselves the question: why in this imperative way are they created within a very short time? Let's talk about consensus and discussion here after this was presented about a week ago to the attention of the entire professional community and now only within a few weeks to be completed, this in no way can we accept that it is consensus. It's imperative in the decision. This is a solution with the strength of the majority vote and will in no way lead to solving the problems of Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u27	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? I won't. The next statement is Dr. Ademov's. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Dechev! The budget by definition is a financial plan, a financial programme for the realization of health policies when we talk about a budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. In this sense, I would like to draw attention to the objectives set in the Bill. There it is written that the budget should provide affordable, quality, timely medical assistance, equal access of the medical institutions to contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. As the words say with a lot of love marked, words often repeated, but anyway, these words cannot be the goal of a budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. They can be steps towards achieving health goals. Health goals are: total mortality, infant mortality, life expectancy, perinatal infant mortality. These are the health objectives for which there should be indicators and at the end of the year to take account, as colleagues from GERB like to take into account visible results, that with this budget we have taken one step in order to be able to improve the health objectives that we have set ourselves. In my opinion, the purpose of this budget is insufficiently correct. I would like to say a few words about the revenue side of the health insurance revenue, the growth rate is 420 million. lv. For the National Health Insurance Fund total these 490 million lv. However, the increase in the revenue side of the budget is not due to some subprime, special idea of the government to increase the revenue side of the budget, but is due to amended legislative and regulatory acts that have been in force since the beginning of next year. In other words, the base was increased at rates reserved and therefore the revenues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund were increased by 420 million. lv. Dear colleagues, 1 billion. 400 million. lv. for the first time the state transfers to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund as a transfer. These 70%, which, you know, grow by 5% each year, have reached 1 billion. 400 million. lv. Next year will be 5% higher. If the State makes a transfer of 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, all other workers and employees provide the rest of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund up to 4 billion. 300 million. lv. So the state makes a transfer of 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, the rest are at the expense of all insured persons in Bulgaria. If there is anything true in the alternative budget of colleagues from BSP, it is true that with one hand is taken to say that the other hand is given. This is the most important thing for the revenue side of the budget. With regard to expenditure, honourable Members, for the first time the expenditure of the National Health Insurance Fund exceeds the strategic 4 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 350 million. lv. for health insurance payments. I would also like to say a few words about the cost structure of this topic: for hospital care................................................................................................. Let's compare in other countries. In Estonia, the hospital assistance 34%, outpatient, medicines 25%, medicines? 16%; in the Czech Republic, hospital assistance 33%, outpatient? 28%, medicines? 16%. We must be correct, dear Minister, because if we want to have new molecules, we need to be aware that we must use those who have proven efficiency and quality. If we want to reduce the cost of the structure in extra-hospital aid, we need to make the mechanisms to absorb this money, because so what if more than 17 million are given. lv. For primary outpatient care, 28 million. lv. More for specialised aid, for medical and diagnostic activities 10 million BGN, what's the problem if they won't be absorbed? In other words, it is very important that in the negotiation process you specify the mechanisms that will allow the absorption of these funds, not what the colleagues of the Doctor's Union suggest that you do not have the right to a feather into a feather, to transfer the funds. The last thing I want to say is for regulatory standards. Mr. Minister, the regulatory standards in the outpatient aid are listed again in this budget? We increase the money for outpatient, specialized, medical-diagnostic activities and dentistry, suddenly the regulatory standards remain. Well, they can't master these directions that they have, they can't perform preventive examinations for different reasons. Why does it have to have regulatory standards, I don't get it? The budget is quite enough. I am sure that it will be implemented at the end of the year, but I see no point in regulatory standards. The last thing I finish with is limits. The NHIF confirms for each RHIF an annual total cost per month. For the first time, the hospital aid budget is over 2 billion. BGN, given that the population in Bulgaria is decreasing and that you are planning a million fewer hospitalizations compared to this year. Why these limits, it's not clear? With these arguments, our parliamentary group will not support the proposed budget of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u29	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I can't see. You have the floor, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Ananiev, are you pleased with the debate on the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019? Probably as a quantity of yes, but as a quality.............................................. but.............................. Have you learned from what happened in the past 2018 with municipal and regional healthcare? And then you increased the budget by nearly 400 million. BGN, now you're increasing it by 500 million. lv. And what happened to municipal and regional hospitals? Some stopped admitting patients, others were on the verge of bankruptcy, leaving doctors and medical professionals. The only thing you're doing right now is increasing hospital care funds by 176,9 million. BGN, as a financial parameter, and in the Transitional and Final Provisions, you propose the following: "You remove the accreditations of hospitals without developing and adopting the new standards. 29 standards that are still missing were still repealed from your predecessor and hospitals in Bulgaria are working. Is that right? How will you guarantee quality and accessibility of healthcare? Another is the value of clinical pathways. There's no comment. Last year we were at least commenting on relaxing for children's healthcare, meaning there were some policies. There are now no policies in the development and evaluation of clinical pathways. There is no doctor's work, and this is the universal opinion of many thought and unconventional organizations. There is also such support among those present in the Chamber. There's no talking about it. There's no talking about the so-called healing pathways. Third, for the first time by Dr. Ademov here, in this room, I have heard here, the question of limits. Somehow, they were left behind in space. Word is, it's trendy now, about health control. I would like to hear your opinion on this. You're suggesting doctors work on a contract. Well, what will happen to municipal and regional hospitals at these high standards and low prices of the clinical pathways they work on? For me, the answer is that the municipal health care in Bulgaria will fail, and it, apart from its medical activities, has a social one. There is no state behaviour in relation to municipal healthcare. The Cadre problem, especially for nurses, stands with a threatening force. At the same time, you propose to supplement their numbers or replace them with paramedics. That's a brilliant decision. I don't know who invented it from your team to replace a paramedic nurse?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u31	This is for emergency services! Don't abuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u32	But a paramedic means a man who saves a man's life. And now they're being hired, and you're reporting even that they're filling up personnel problems, for example, in Pyrogov, paramedics are being assigned to medical assistants, and they're pushing carts at the same time! Is that a paramedic? Please! With regard to paramedics, this issue has yet to be debated. They must only be part of emergency services. [[Heckling]] Really and practically not. And you're comparing the specialty of the Medical Sister with the one with Paramedic and making them the same, that is, for me, this budget is a déjà vu of last year. The problem of municipal and regional healthcare will not be stopped. There are no criteria, publicity and transparency of public resource allocation, so we will not support this budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u33	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Dr. Popovski, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The group will support the NHIF's budget as a general philosophy. Perhaps before the second reading we would like a discussion with the NHIF Governor and the Minister about some things, as a percentage ratio of the main items in the distribution of the funding of this budget and a comment on some texts on Transitional and Final Provisions in the NHIF Budget Bill, because there are some supplementary texts that need to be clarified before second reading. The overall increase is good. It is parallel, synchronized with the increase in gross domestic product, overall for the country, but still we continue to move between 4 and 4.5 per cent divided for health care by gross domestic product, which is over 100 billion. lv. Relations inside are also somewhat mysterious, because hospital health still cannot reach, despite an increase of about 180 million. BGN, if I am not mistaken, does not reach 50% of the combined budget of the Cashier. We can't go in a foreseeable future to value the clinical pathways that we all want to happen, both us and the opposition. I think we agree on this, but with this percentage distribution of basic feathers, we won't be able to reach it anytime soon. And this will be one of the main topics that we will comment on before second reading, which is essential. Perhaps the National Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology will submit a proposal that concerns more the Casata and the Medical Union as contractual partners in the price of clinical pathways, to make a separate path, a Caesarean section, more expensive than normal birth, as it is in the normal world. In Germany, this happened more than ten years ago, where a caesarean section is paid double from normal birth, and in Bulgaria we know that according to the percentage of these 60 thousand births, over 20 thousand Bulgarians of the year give birth with a caesarean section, which is paid at the price of normal birth still. It's a serious operation that has one more bedside. There are also serious supplies, serious costs by hospitals, so there is a reason to make a new clinical path and to finance it a little bit more normal than before, where payment is the same as normal birth. This is one of the heavily underfunded pathways, which is clinically, socially and demographicly significant more than anything else. Thank you for your attention for now. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u35	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any lines? Here you go, Dr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr Popovski, in what you have put forward, you largely contradict each other because you said you would support this budget and to a large extent talk to our arguments, namely that money is being poured into an unreformed system. You said it a little differently. It is interesting to us exactly what your vision is, between first and second reading where and what will be achieved in view that it is not only unreformed, it is one of the most unreformed systems! This is a budget of the status quo with regard to the NHIF. The other important fact that you pointed out is that, indeed, against gross domestic product, Mr. Minister, the percentage remains the same. And the other thing for which I give you a line is that the proposals made in the Transitional and Final Regulations, as well as the colleagues from our parliamentary group, pointed out, and Professor Mihailov, do not really respect the Law on Legislative Acts, but this is not important. What is important is that it takes away the opportunity of stakeholders, of the medical guild, of the people who are being treated, of the patient organizations to have the opportunity to discuss, to debate and all of us together. In this regard, you really contradict each other. I hope that all together, for the sake of improving the system and not delaying, as well as Mr. Minister proposed two options of reforms, in the budget we see nothing in this aspect. There is nothing at stake and 2019 will be another year which will be missed for the necessary healthcare reforms in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Popovski, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I hope that the audience understands me.. I do not contradict myself anywhere. I merely said that we reserve the right to second reading after an additional conversation with the Minister, the Governor of the NHIF and the Chairman of supervision to clarify the texts that are really in Transitional and Final Provisions. The other thing we reserved law for is the large ratio of funding for the main feathers. Last year was a little different: from 407 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. They went for hospital healthcare and so little by little, we start to better finance the clinical pathways, which are the most severely underfunded part of Bulgarian healthcare. Now I see the rate for hospitals is lower. These are the things I wanted to comment on before the second reading. That's what I meant, so I hope the audience understands me well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u39	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Total expenditure and transfers to the 2019 Project Budget compared to the Case's 2018 budget: the financial resource increased by 490 million. BGN, which is a growth of nearly 13%. Health insurance payments compared to the 2018 budget increased by 454.3 million. BGN, which is over 12% higher, but the problem is the ratio of hospital medical care to outpatient medical care. With the most recent medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods included, there is a permanent reduction in the financial resource compared to health insurance payments for outpatient medical care, which is reduced by 3% compared to 2017 and the current one to come 2019. For the same period the financial resource for providing only medical services as a percentage of health insurance payments, the figures are 30,81% and 25,31% respectively. I mean, 5% reduces money for medical services in outpatient medical care. What conclusions can we draw from this? Financial resources for hospital care continue to grow at the expense of outpatient medical care. Mostly the funds go to medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods, not to specific medical services in outpatient medical care, respectively for salaries. In Transitional and Final Provisions, a number of things are perplexing: how can the provision of the Health Insurance Act sign how to fire the head of the NHIF and in art. 73 is laid down in the same law a check of financial documents and not of medical activities, as stated in the Cashier's Budget Project for 2019? And more. I think it takes time to complete the restructuring of the system in one, as my colleagues called it, which creates a danger of a time vacuum, as well as the release of many experts, working pensioners, in the field of health. I hope that with the things that we will propose as changes between first and second readings, we will be able to discuss in more detail the corresponding budget changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u41	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u42	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! So far, most doctors and specialists have spoken, but I think a different look will help you. The health reform remains in demand for consensus for next year, but serious reforms have been under the table since January 1st, I would say in violation of the Law of the Health Insurance Fund through the draft Budget Act. This is a factual change of constitutional laws and an unconstitutional settlement of public relations. Why? In 16 laws, honourable Members, changes are made through the transitional and final provisions of this draft law in 56 pages. Here is the place to mention the Constitutional Court's Decision No 17 of 1995, which says that any annual budget law is such in its form, but in its part it cannot regulate public relations beyond its subject matter. For me, this is a contradiction to art. 12 of the Law on Laws, according to which the act of law enforcement can only regulate matter which is identical to the object for which this law is created. That's why I'm very worried. In short, the draft Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund cannot and should not amend other state-of-the-art health laws. The Health Insurance Act says what the Cashier's budget should contain. Signing beyond what is written means that the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund become bodies with legislative initiative. I am opposed to this in the Health Insurance Act, the Medical Institutions Act, the Medical Products Act in Human Medicine, the Word Organizations Act of Doctors and Doctors in Dental Medicine. We are making very significant changes. These changes will affect, in our opinion, the most patients. I can give a lot of examples. Another example is the new body "The National Council on Prices, Guides and Manuals that I will accept. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund increased by 490 million. BGN, or more than 12% compared to 12018 Colleagues, wasn't the ratio that was unknown to our history a 12% increase last year?! Well, what changed in health care, what changed for people, for patients, for doctors and for health in general? Nothing. And I'll tell you why. You do not give money, do not give money, not even the National Assembly increases the 500 million, but 1.4 billion, as Dr. Ademov said, come from, and nearly three billion of the population. So the truth is buried somewhere else. These costs support and deepen the inadequate architecture of the health system, with one of the small examples being that extra-hospital assistance is once again nihilated, and hospital care is overbloated. And that in an unreformed model! From this point of view, the new nearly half a billion is not only insufficient, but does not serve healthcare reforms, and this is a budget of preserving and serving the status quo without any reform policies. I can tell, no offense, he's an election waiter. It's basically a pre-election budget. On the contrary, we offer a budget that wants to deal with the severe demographic, social, economic and health crisis, a budget facing people, patients, doctors and the most important value of a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I was just thinking that the statement by colleague Kostadinov from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will make my speech meaningless, because she rightly stressed the transitional and closing provisions, but it is very strange why exactly one provision, which we think is super scandalous, nobody concerns her. I'll read it. In § 42 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, art. 10a, it says: The cash proceeds from the privatisation of parts of public or municipal hospitals, regardless of the amount of such participation, shall be transferred to the account of the medical establishment, shall remain in its ownership and may be used for investments and directly related to the subject of activity and for the satisfaction of the interests of the creditors after the authorisation of the owner of the capital. Dear colleagues, this is essentially a covert, bandit made in radio silence privatization, because an alleged ban on privatization of medical institutions in general, but at 5, 10% times the most appetizing bites can be made. Why do I take the liberty of making that remark? In fact, because of this paragraph, we are hesitant and, most likely, at first reading, we will abstain from supporting this budget that we are currently voting on, and we will seek its correction between first and second votes. More than a year ago, we alarmed, not here from the stands, but a tribune from the towers, about the problems at the Agency for Bulgarians abroad. No one paid attention to us and now we are picking the fruits of this failure to address attention, because if, then even the colleagues from IMRO had taken note and Karakachanov had made a remark to his close friend the head of the Agency, now would not have come to this. We say that because now I'm going to draw you a picture that in a year you'll all be painting it and seeing it, and the media will be telling it. It is a public secret how medical institutions are currently deliberately indebted. From now on, I can tell you what it will be and who will benefit from these amendments. It will be for those who have formally accumulated some claims from hospitals, they will target the most appetizing and most profitable bites from these hospitals. These bites will be privatized and with the privatization of the money that is supposed to enter the medical institutions, they will actually pay the same creditor. That's the pattern. We're alerting you early. I'm sorry that someone else didn't notice these things so that next year they wouldn't be able to start arrests in hospitals, in medical centers that were implementing exactly this scheme that we just drew for you. We will hope with consensus to look for amendments that are good for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian people and for the Bulgarian doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! As a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I cannot fail to note that the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 provides for the closure of the Public Council of the Fund for the Treatment of Children. The Fund offsets many problems related to child health in the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Council to it unites doctors, patients, representatives of NGOs, as well as the media, which monitor the distribution and spending of the funds for the treatment of Bulgarian children. The change provides that the functions of the Fund will be taken over by the National Health Insurance Fund, but not carried out as before as civil control. The activities of the Public Council so far are mainly prevention of corruption in this area. It is a form of control in the fair distribution of funds for the treatment of Bulgarian children. The proposed proposal will create significant and minor changes, which will have a direct bearing on the health of dozens of Bulgarian citizens. In recent weeks, we have learned from the media that there are concerns related to the envisaged problems, not only in patient organizations, members of the Public Council, but also in parents. All the criticisms made here to the proposals for the Health Insurance Fund budget, I consider justified. And the lack of public discussion, which is related to the organizational restructuring of the Casa and the lack of transparency, I think it is the strongest argument today to vote against the budget. The responsibility for the consequences, namely poor health care, increased corruption and unfair spending of funds is actually yours, all of you who will support this budget with the many unknowns it hides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? If there is no desire for other speeches, we can close the debate and give the floor to the Minister of Health. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me first thank all the MPs who spoke today, whether they will support or not support the budget. A number of proposals have been made today, which I believe are appropriate, correct, and during the debates between the first and second votes in the Committee on Budget and Finance, I think some of them will be adopted because they really lead to better effectiveness in the management of the health system. There were also a number of other questions and opinions that were expressed, which, of course, I do not agree with and they do not respond to the policy that the Ministry of Health and Government has set itself as a whole. I have the feeling that many of the MPs attended the Committee on Health and asked the same questions. I have worked hard to explain exactly what these texts mean and what we achieve with them. I appeal to all those who speak and to the other Members of Parliament who wish to make relevant proposals, let them make them to the Committee on Budget and Finance between the first and second votes. There I will try again with arguments to explain which are acceptable, appropriate and we will include them in the final draft of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for 2019 and which I believe are not acceptable and do not lead to reforming the system. As regards the financial performance of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the following year. I believe that the envisaged growth for 2019 of 490 million. lv. will be able to create conditions for the National Health Insurance Fund together with the word organizations to find the fairest and most balanced solution in terms of all health insurance payments and thus solve the problem of improving the quality and improving the access of Bulgarian citizens to health care. It is not true that there are no indicators for measuring quality, we are even going to determine those that take into account the individual needs of each patient, as three patients may have the same disease, but each of them needs different therapy. Together with the National Health Insurance Fund and with the word organizations, we will work very seriously on this issue in the preparation of the anex. The annex is the document to the framework contract that will solve these things. They are not governed by the Law. You have seen how many different opinions there were regarding the allocation of resources in the Casa budget between the individual health insurance payments. However, bear in mind that this budget has stepped on the basis of the established tradition in the years behind. It is a transitional budget which may be the last budget before the new health insurance model enters, and therefore we propose with the Transitional and Final Provisions that we decide several things that are necessary for the introduction of the new health insurance model from 1 January 2020. Who are they? The structural changes we propose, the changes in the legal, organisational, management, control environment. All these things we need to regulate them in 2019 so that we can create the environment that is sufficient, necessary to bring in the new health insurance model, whoever it is. I can tell you that there is already a third one, that is, the debate we are having in the working groups is very serious. I'm sure we'll come to a consensus on one of these models. In order for them to be successful, all the things that have stumbled pebbles over its effective implementation in 2020 must be removed, and they are linked to most of the things that we have proposed as an amendment to the relevant laws. That's not in the dark. There are clear arguments. I take the commitment at the second reading in the Budget Committee to give a concrete answer on each of these issues. I'm going to make it clear that there won't be any doubt of any backstage or acceptance of texts in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u49	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to vote on the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Bill for 2019, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 180 MPs: 108, against 62, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Yankov, explain your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, these 490 million increases are not for improving the health service next year and they are no increase in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. They simply represent a composite amount for accumulated debts in this year 2018 and had to be covered by an update of the current budget of the Casa. Mr. Minister, you've organized round tables and diverted public attention with concepts that have nothing to do with your real intentions. You are changing public health relations with the amendments proposed in the Transitional and Final Regulations to all health laws. Another reorganization of you putting the health protection of Bulgarian citizens at risk without having a public discussion and debate of experts with different opinions to hear. I voted against it because of your policy in the sector there are no winners but only victims. Both the patients and the doctors fall under the blows of your poor management.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Second negative vote? I won't. Colleagues, I suggest a half-hour break. After the holiday we will continue with a second point: First vote on the Bill on the State Social Security Budget. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u52	Colleagues, please take your seats. Moving on to item two on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC BUILDING FOR 2019 WITH THE IMPORTER MINISTERING COUNCIL OF 29 OCTOBER 2018 Dr. Ademov, you're welcome. Mrs. Stoyanova will be second.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u53	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019, No 802-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 1 November 2018, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Health Committee, examined and discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. The meeting was attended by the representatives of ministers Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Chairman of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria, Professor Boris Grozdanov, representatives of employers', trade union and pension organizations. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. Budget 2018 contains an annual average of 2,786,1 thousand insured persons. The expected implementation of this indicator for 2018 is 2,790.2 thousand. Project 2019 bets 2,792,2 thousand. Budget 2018 sets average insurance income to determine the percentage under art. 100 of the Social Security Code 872,70 BGN The expected implementation of this indicator for 2018 is 892,60 BGN. Project 2019 bets BGN 967,58 Budget 2018 contains a number of unemployed persons entitled to compensation of 76,6 thousand. The expected implementation of this indicator for 2018 is 79.1 thousand. Project 2019 bets 76.1 thousand. The average monthly number of pensioners 2 170.6 thousand is set in Budget 2018. The expected implementation of this indicator for 2018 is 2 162,62 thousand. Project 2019 bets 2 154.8 thousand. an average annual number of pensioners. The budget of state social security for 2019 sets out the following revenue policies: - The amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the Pensions and Fund for the persons under art. The amount of the insurance contributions for the other DVO funds and also the ratios between the insurers and the insured persons shall be maintained at the level of 2018. - no minimum insurance thresholds have been agreed for 2019. - increases the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons from BGN 510. At 560 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 350 BGN. At 560 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the maximum insurance income for all insured persons is increased from BGN 2600. 3,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for 2019, no contributions to the Fund shall be paid to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. The following expenditure policies are laid down: - The required age and retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum retirement age of the persons under art. Art. 69, Art. 69b of the Social Security Code; - for pensions granted after 31 December 2018, the rate for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,169 to 1,2; - from 1 July 2019 the pensions granted until 31 December 2018 including, are increased by 5,7 per cent of the percentage determined under Article 100 of the Social Security Code, taking into account the new weight per year of service; - the minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age, as well as related pensions and supplements, shall be increased from 1 July by the percentage determined under art. 100 CSR; - the maximum amount of one or more pensions received from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019 shall be maintained at 910 BGN and from 1 July 2019 shall be increased to 1200 BGN, representing 40% of the amount of maximum social income for the same calendar year. for 2019, the measure shall apply to all pensions, regardless of the time when they are granted; - the calculation of the individual pension coefficient granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018 shall take into account the social security income of the persons after 1999, except where it is missing or is for a period of less than 36 months; - from 1 January 2019 the formula for calculating the individual coefficient shall be changed, with addition to art. 70, para. 9 define its maximum value; - the minimum daily amount of the compensation for unemployment is maintained "9.00 BGN." and the maximum daily size.. 74,29 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is maintained.. 410 days, and the amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the changes in relation to the changes in the payment arrangements for the adoption of child up to five years of age have been taken into account in relation to the changes entered into force from 1 July 2018; - and in 2019 the possibility introduced in 2017 for mothers (the adoptive parents) who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until one year of age, but do not use it, return to work and receive compensation from state social security in the amount of 50 per cent of their compensation for pregnancy and childbirth; - the payment of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days shall be paid by the insurance provider and from the 4th day of the failure of the Social Security Code, the first three working days shall be paid by the insurance provider; - the period, the income for which is taken into account in calculating the amounts of short-term benefits in case of temporary incapacity is maintained - the amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is maintained• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a maximum amount of the guaranteed claims is set for BGN 1400. As a result of the social security indicators and the revenue and expenditure policies laid down, the revenue and expenditure of the Draft Consolidated Budget of the State Social Security shall be as follows: By the end of the year, revenues (without transfers) are expected to be 6,796,1 million. lv. and the implementation of the plan to be by 223,9 million. lv. more (3,4 percent). The expenditure (without transfers) for 2018 is expected to be 11 104,6 million. BGN 0,4 per cent more than planned or 44.7 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the The expected transfers for 2018 amounted to 4,477.9 million. BGN, which is 0.2 million. lv. more transfers received. The estimated surplus of the Consolidated Budget of State Social Security for 2018 amounts to 179,4 million. lv. The total amount of revenue and transfers received for 2019 is 11,759,7 million. BGN, including transfers received from the central/state budget lv. (for pensions, allowances and benefits financed by the State budget lv. and to cover the financing gap of EUR 3 934.1 million. (BGN) The total cost of pensions, short-term benefits, social security services and transfers provided for 2019 is 11,759,7 million. BGN, including transfers of 7,4 million lv. for MLSP and for the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Next, the Governor of the National Insurance Institute presented policies regarding the size of pensions for 2019: - For pensions granted after 31 December 2018, the rate for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1.169 to 1.2; - from 1 July 2019 the pensions granted until 31 December 2018 including, are increased by 5,7 per cent (percentage determined under Art.100 of the CSR), taking into account the new weight per year of service; - from 1 July 2019 the minimum pension for internship and age increases from 207.60 to 219.43 BGN. (an increase of 5,7 per cent by Art. 100 by CSR); - from 1 July 2018 the social pension for old age increases from 125,58 to 132,74 BGN. (an increase of 5.7 per cent by art. 100 CSR); - from 1 January 2019 increases the maximum insurance income from 2600 to 3000 BGN. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received until 30 June 2019 remains BGN 910 and from 1 July 2019 becomes BGN 1200.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - when calculating the individual coefficient of pensions granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the choice of three best consecutive years for the period prior to 1997 and the period 1997 - 1999 is dropped; - from 1 January 2019 the formula for calculating the individual coefficient is changed; - for pensions granted after 31 December 2018, a maximum value of the individual coefficient shall be defined, with the arithmetic value of the monthly ratios between the maximum monthly amount of the social security income determined by the State Security Budget Act and the average monthly social security income for the country for the months following 31 December 1999 participating in the calculation of the individual coefficient. The above parameters and pensions policies have an impact on the number of pensioners and the amounts of pensions that determine the cost of pensions for 2019. The average number of pensioners for 2019 is expected to decrease to around 2 million. 154,000. 800 people. The lower number of pensioners is determined by changes in the requirements for the acquisition of pension rights under the Social Security Code. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2019 is set to reach 386,27 BGN. the nominal increase is 6.2 percent for the expected average size for 2018. BGN 363,82 (Law on the Budget of DOA 2018) (BGN 362,97) A positive real pension growth of 3.1 per cent is expected in 2019, with an estimated annual average harmonised inflation rate of 3 per cent for 2019. The gross income substitution rate for 2019 is expected to be 39.9% and the net coefficient is expected to be 51.4%. The cost of pensions for 2019 is 9 988.2 million. lv. This amount includes the cost of pensions from state social security and the state budget, as well as the supplements to the pensions of war veterans, supplements to the pensions of repressed persons and other supplements. The provision for pensions is 533.8 million. lv. or 5.6 per cent more pension funds than the State Social Security Budget Act for 2018. The increased costs result mainly from the provision of funds for: - the year-round payment of the amounts of pensions increased from 1 July 2018 as a result of the increase in the percentage for each year in the pension formula; - an increase in the percentage for each year in the pension formula from 1,169 to 1,2 and in the amounts of all pensions granted at a starting date by 31 December 2018 including 5.7 per cent from 1 July; - increase the maximum amount of one or more pensions received from BGN 910. £1,200. from 1 July 2019; - the change in the formula for calculating the individual coefficient, including the removal of the insurance income for the period before 2000 when calculating the individual coefficient and determining the maximum value of the individual coefficient; - the change in the retirement conditions of all categories of work The cost of pensions in 2019 is expected to be around 8.6 per cent of gross domestic product. The costs of short-term benefits for 2019 are in line with the reported costs for 2017, the Act on the Budget of the DEA for 2018, the expected implementation on the basis of August 2018, the estimated number of insured persons and their insurance income. The costs of the main groups of short-term benefits under the Social Security Code shall be: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable persons. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - compensation for occupational accident and occupational disease - 11.3 million. BGN, which is 118.9 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 418.7 million. BGN, which is 109.6 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; - benefits for raising a young child up to two years of age and for adopting a child from 2 to 5 years of age - 166.9 million. BGN, which is 102.2 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2018. The planned benefits for raising a young child are for 9 168.7 thousand days with average daily compensation of 18.10 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - money benefits for unemployment - 449.6 million. BGN, which is 102,5 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 20.1 million lv. The 2019 Fund-specific budget results shall be as follows: - Fund "Pensions" "Lack of 3,721,3 million." lv. - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. - Fund of Pensions, non-employment-related... a shortage of 0,01 million. lv. - Trudy accident and occupational disease fund - Rest of 159,9 million. lv. - Total disease and disability fund.44.1 million. lv. - "Unemployment" Fund "Lack of 134,5 million." lv. - A budget of the NSI - a remainder of 3,839,9 million. lv. The total result of the funds and the budget of the National Insurance Institute shall be balanced to zero. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received opinions from trade union partners and employers' organisations. The union representatives generally support the Bill, but they also disagree with some of the proposed policies. The representatives of the employers' organizations declared a clear disagreement with the proposed changes and basic parameters of the pension insurance system, increasing the maximum insurance income from BGN 2600 to BGN 3000. and the cancellation of the ceiling for newly granted pensions from the beginning of 2019. They also disagree with the expected increase of the minimum wage for the country of 560 BGN. and the associated increase in minimum insurance benefits that do not correspond to labour productivity. They do not accept the extremely low amount of benefits for temporary disability. The opinion of the Ombudsman of the Republic Mrs Maya Manolova was received by the Commission. It takes the view that the proposed draft budget creates prerequisites for human rights violations. After the presentation of the bill was held a discussion involving Asya Goneva from the CNSB, Vanya Grigorova from the KT "Podkrepa" Vasil Velev from AICB, Georgi Rusanov from the Union of Pensioners. In the discussion of the draft budget took part the MPs Georgi Gokov and Hasan Ademov. In addition to the positive findings that the budget was made with professionally high expertise, shortcomings of the draft budget concerning the implementation of the budget make this budget a budget of poverty, inequality, low incomes and demographic impasse. All this makes the draft budget of state social security at risk to national security. Dr. Hasan Ademov pointed out that in addition to the increased revenues and expenditures, the draft budget, in the part of changes to the Social Security Code, has sought justice, but through the broken agreement of 2015 between employers, trade unions and the state. Once again, there is injustice in the direction of restrictive measures and policies at a standstill. In 20 countries of the European Union there is a limitation on the high growth of pensions, but in Bulgaria, in addition, there is another restriction known as the one on the individual coefficient for determining the amount of pensions, that is to say a double injustice in terms of insured persons and pensioners. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes (for) and 8 votes (for) against (y) and without votes (i) abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to support the State Social Security Budget Bill 2019, No 802-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u54	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Permission to do, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u55	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor; Mr. Dragomir Draganov, Director of the Directorate of the National Insurance Institute; and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u56	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 115 MPs: 111, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u57	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Social Security Budget for 2019, No 802-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; from the National Insurance Institute Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor, Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor, Director of Directorates; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. He pointed out that the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019 is based on the government's three-year budget forecast for 2019 " 2021," and laid down the following policies: 1. Revenues: - The amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the Pensions and Fund for the persons under art. The amount of social security contributions for the other social security funds and the ratios between the insurers and the insured persons shall also be maintained at the level of 2018. - No minimum insurance thresholds have been agreed for 2019. Without imposing an administrative increase in minimum insurance thresholds, when the minimum wage increase is planned to be increased by 9.8 per cent, the average increase in minimum insurance thresholds in 2019 is about 4.7 per cent. - The minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons of BGN 510 is increased. At 560 leva. - The minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 350 BGN. At 560 leva. - The maximum insurance income for all insured persons is increased from BGN 2600. 3,000 leva. - For 2019 no contributions to the Fund are paid to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. - Determined for revenue in the budget of the National Insurance Institute BGN 97 500. of the income of the Fund.. Guaranteed claims of employees....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 13 of the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in the event of insolvency of the employer. The total amount of revenue and transfers for 2019 from the Consolidated Budget for State Social Security is available at 11,759,7 million. lv. or 692,4 million. lv. more than 2018 The total amount with the largest relative share is the income from social contributions, which is estimated at 7 473, 2 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is more than 0,3 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the financial year 2018 and transfers from the central budget of the State Social Security budget for the payment of pensions and allowances at the expense of the State budget of 297,6 million. BGN, or less by 11.2 million. lv. of their amount for 2018. An additional transfer from the state budget is envisaged to cover the lack of funds in the state social security budget for 2019 amounting to 3 934.1 million. lv. or less by 252,2 million. lv. 2. Cost: - The required age and retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum retirement age of the persons under art. 69 and 69b of the Social Security Code. - For pensions granted after 31 December 2018, the rate for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,169 to 1,2. - From 1 July 2019 the pensions granted until 31 December 2018 including, shall be increased by 5,7 per cent by a percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code on the basis of the figures used in the establishment of the State Social Security budget for 2019 for the increase of the insurance income and the consumer price index, which includes the new - The minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age, as well as related pensions and supplements, is increased from July 1st by 5.7 percent. - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019 shall be maintained at 910 BGN and from 1 July 2019 shall be increased to 1200 BGN. 40 percent of the amount of the maximum insurance income for the same calendar year. for 2019, the measure shall apply to all pensions, regardless of the time when they are granted. - The calculation of the individual pension coefficient granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018 shall take into account the social security income of the persons after 1999, except in cases where they are not available or for a period less than 36 months. - From 1 January 2019 the formula for calculating the individual coefficient is changed as with addition to art. 70, para. 9 of the Social Security Code is defined its maximum value. - The minimum daily amount of the compensation for unemployment is preserved - BGN 9,00 and the maximum daily amount - BGN 74,29. - The period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is reserved for 410 days and the amount of the compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age is 380 BGN. - Changes have been reported in relation to changes in the payment regime for child adoption benefits up to the age of five in force from 1 July 2018. - In 2019, the possibility introduced in 2017 for adoptive parents who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until one year of age, but do not use it, return to work and receive compensation from state social security in the amount of 50 percent of their compensation for pregnancy and childbirth. - The mode of payment of the cash benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days are paid by the insurance provider and from the 4th day of failure of the state social security. - Save the period, the income for which is taken into account when calculating the amounts of short-term benefits for temporary incapacity, 18 calendar months, and during pregnancy and childbirth and unemployment 24 months. - The amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is preserved. - A maximum amount of guaranteed claims is set for BGN 1400. The development of the draft Consolidated Budget of State Social Security for Revenue and Expenditure 2019 is also based on the expected implementation of the State Social Security budget for 2018. The estimated surplus of the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2018 amounts to 179,4 million. lv. The total amount of expenditure and transfers for 2019 is 11,759,7 million. lv. and this amount is greater by 692,4 million. lv. from 2018. The most relative share is the cost of pensions of 9,989,7 million. BGN, which amounts to 84.9 per cent of all expenditure in the state social security. The relative share of the cost of pensions from gross domestic product is 8.6 per cent, with the provision for pensions of 533.8 million. lv. more than their size in the state social security budget for 2018 Policies regarding the size of pensions for 2019: - For pensions granted after 31 December 2018, the rate for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,169 to 1,2. - From 1 July 2019 pensions granted until 31 December 2018 including increases by 5.7 per cent. - From 1 July 2019 the minimum pension for internship and age increases from 207.60 to 219.43 BGN. It's a 5.7 percent increase. - From 1 July 2019 the social pension for old age increases from 125,58 to 132,74 BGN. It's a 5.7 percent increase. - From 1 January 2019 the maximum insurance income is increased from 2600 to 3000 BGN. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received until 30 June 2019 remains BGN 910 and from 1 July 2019 becomes BGN 1200. - From 1 January 2019 the formula for calculating the individual coefficient is changed by defining its maximum value. The above parameters and pensions policies have an impact on the number of pensioners and the amounts of pensions that determine the cost of pensions for 2019. The average number of pensioners for 2019 is expected to decrease to around 2154.8 thousand. The lower number of pensioners is determined by changes in the requirements for the acquisition of pension rights under the Social Security Code. The average pension amount of one pensioner in 2019 is set to reach 386,27 BGN, with a nominal increase of 6.2 percent in the expected average amount for 2018. BGN 363,82 A positive real pension growth of 3.1 per cent is expected in 2019 at a forecast value of the annual average harmonised inflation of 2019 from 3 per cent. The allocation of expenditure for the main short-term benefit groups under the Social Security Code is as follows: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable persons. BGN, which is 105.9 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; compensations are planned for 14 549.6 thousand days for average daily compensation 32.51 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - compensation for occupational accident and occupational disease - 11.3 million. BGN, which is 118.9 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; compensations are planned for 281,3 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to occupational accident and occupational disease in the case of average daily compensation BGN 40,04.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 418.7 million. BGN, which is 109.6 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; compensations are planned for 13,989,4 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to pregnancy and birth in the case of average daily compensation 29,93 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for raising a child up to two years of age and for adoption of a child up to 5 years of age - 166.9 million. BGN, which is 102.2 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; planned benefits for raising a young child are for 9 168.7 thousand days with average daily compensation 18,10 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - money benefits for unemployment - 449.6 million. BGN 102,5 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2018; the planned benefits are for 76 122 entitled persons with a monthly average amount of compensation 492,16 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 20.1 million lv. The planned costs for the operation of the Social Security are 122.7 million. lv. The relative share of activity costs in relation to all expenditures of the Consolidated Budget for State Social Security for 2019 is 1.04 percent. Staff costs are 68.8 million. lv. and have been developed in the average number of employees per employee of the labour force "930,' and by the official staff of the "2537'. The cost of administrative maintenance is 45.7 million. lv. For 2019, the project of capital expenditure funds is 7.6 million. lv. or increased by 1.5 million. lv. As compared to 2018 The consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2019 is expected to end with a zero budget balance. The 2019 Fund-specific budget results shall be as follows: - Fund "Pensions". Deficit of 3 721 343,0 thousand. lv. - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that there is no need to assess the compatibility of the measure with the internal market. lv. - Fund "Pensions unrelated to employment". Deficit of 14.3 thousand. lv. - "Employment accident and occupational disease" fund "Employment of 159 964.7 thousand." lv. - General disease and disability fund.. deficit of 44 046.7 thousand. lv. - "Unemployment" Fund "Difference" of 134 494.2 thousand. lv. - A budget of the NSI - surplus of 3 839 877.7 thousand. lv. The total result of the Funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. A discussion was held on the bill in which MPs and guests spoke their opinions. People's representative Georgi Gokov said that the representatives of the Bulgarian BSP will not support the proposed bill by pointing out the following reasons. Firstly, it lacks a vision to solve major problems related mainly to demography, low incomes, poverty, inequality, health care, pension system. Secondly, they do not accept the sharp increase in minimum insurance income for farmers, the insufficient increase in pensions by 5.7%, as well as the freezing of other social payments, such as the minimum amount for unemployment benefit to remain BGN 9 provided that the maximum social benefit is increased. National Representative Hasan Ademov disagreed with the proposed increase in maximum insurance income. He took the view that there is an injustice with regard to pensioners, as there are two restrictive mechanisms in terms of the amount of the pensions on the one hand being the maximum amount of pensions and, on the other hand, the individual coefficient. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Vasil Velev said that they do not support the budget of state social security for the following reasons. Firstly, they are strongly opposed to increasing the maximum last-minute insurance income, without talking to the business. Secondly, the three days of hospital, which remain at the expense of employers and, more precisely, at the expense of decent people in the working group. Thirdly, there are no reforms and changes at stake to limit disability fraud. The representative of the Union of Pensioners in Bulgaria Mr. Georgi Rusanov said that a 5.7% increase in pensions is not enough to meet the requirements of the living standard in the country. The representatives of KT Ms. Vanya Grigorova and Mrs. Asya Goneva expressed their support under the bill, as well as their satisfaction with the increased revenues from the state social security budget. In the future, serious steps should be taken against the grey economy and undeclared employment, as well as stopping the retention of minimum insurance benefits and increasing them only to the minimum wage. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the Budget of State Social Security for 2019, No 802-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? First procedure, then Mr. Gokov, then Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for extending the period for written proposals under the newly adopted Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund by three days, i.e. until 16 November inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u60	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Please vote on the proposed extension. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Unfortunately, the perfect social system is not an unconditional sacrifice of democracy, as many assume. The fact that the current majority is titled Democrats does not make it socially sensitive automatically. At the moment, the social system in Bulgaria is under increasing pressure to modernize and achieve a higher degree of justice. And the fact that we are significantly poorer and in general our country has a less developed social protection system than other European countries cannot serve as an excuse and an indulgence of the government for all the failures in the system, which are due, apart from everything else, to political carelessness, wrong decisions and lack of expertise. Among the main problems that society expects to face adequately and solve are the demographic catastrophe, integration into the Bulgarian society of ethnic minorities, especially Roma, welcoming new immigrant waves and, God forbid, the need for integration of immigrant minorities. In addition, more than ten years after accession to the European Union, Bulgaria continues to fall behind member states in many areas and continues to have huge problems related mainly to low incomes, poverty and inequalities, health care, the pension system and whatnot. And since social policy is not subject to regulation at European level, our problems must be solved by ourselves. That is why it is so important to have adequate solutions in the social sphere and adequate social protection, both in the state budget and in the budgets of state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund. The 2019 budget of the government is presented as the strongest for the years of transition and with a very strong social focus. If you'll excuse me, it only makes me laugh! You can present it as meeting part of the election promises and the program that you have GERB and the United Patriarchs and not as good. You can define it as better than last year, because you're going to spend more money on the election, but you can't define it as good in general. You may define it as better for some Bulgarians, but not as good for the bigger chat of them. The budget of state social security for 2019 can even be said to have been rejected by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, because there are four votes there, and there are only three votes for the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. However, this rejection is a reason to think once again whether everything is okay in state social security. Unfortunately for me, or rather unfortunately for the Bulgarians, the answer is not. The careful review of the state social security budget presented at the first vote for 2019 shows that it lacks any commitments and policies aimed at addressing these major problems, which we can openly call threats, because the dynamics of the development of these problems and the lack of adequate reactions from the government make them so significant that they are already a risk to our national security. The truth requires that I note that the funds for state social security in 2019 have been increased. Another question is sufficient and adequate to the expectations is this increase and will it contribute to a positive development of the social sphere? Another question is, don't you do it pre-electionally? However, next year there are two important choices - European and local. One of the things that seems to be intruding at first glance is insecurities and unpredictable in making important decisions and regulatory changes in state social security. For example, according to the notorious § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, after 31 December 2018, the maximum amount of one or more pensions received was to be dropped, but this will not happen. So much of the Bulgarian citizens who have already acquired the right to a pension who postponed their retirement to after 1 January 2019, because after that date there should not have been a maximum amount of pensions, turned out to be lied to and violated because of the inability to make predictable and informed choices. I merely point out that, in this budget as well as in those of previous years, there is no broad public discussion, no prior impact assessment, no compliance and compliance with the regulatory arrangements established when offering them. And again because of the truth, I will draw attention to the fact that in the budget of state social security for 2019 there is a gap with the government management programme in which as main objectives are defined: limiting negative demographic trends and reducing population numbers; increasing incomes through employment and higher labour productivity; a stable pension system and raising pensioners' incomes; guaranteeing the rights of children and people with disabilities; sustainable growth in incomes and raising living standards; reducing poverty. Does anyone remember this program and see in this budget any intentions at all to achieve the declared objectives? Because I can't see. Nothing to do with the intentions and promises with which you came to power and with which the new government was created. The budget of state social security is a function of overall governance and when you have no vision for governance you have no plan to get your people out of the state of the poorest in the European Union, you have no idea of raising the incomes and quality of life of the Bulgarians, you will have serious problems in the system of state social security and at all in the social system. This is why we are generally seeing a gap with public attitudes and expectations on a number of issues related to the sustainable growth of employment income and pensions. Deeply wrong is the philosophy of absoluting the fiscal and macroeconomic stability of the system at the expense of the most vulnerable groups of the population and denying them rights. Although it is said that social policy is one of the main priorities of the government for 2019, from the budget of state social security, and also the state budget and that of the Health Insurance Fund, it is clear that while this government is in power, the negative processes will deepen especially in the social sphere. Because the good in quotes budget for 2019 is basically with very few exceptions, is a copy of those from 2017 and 2018 and of all others from Borisov's management, only with higher values of gross domestic product. There is nothing new, no new policy leading to social reform, to improvement. And you can't do the same thing, only now with more money, and expect different, better results in solving serious social problems. A few words on revenue policies in state social security. The tax insurance system in Bulgaria as a whole does not function fairly and needs to be revised. In this context, I will comment on the increase in maximum insurance income. I note that, according to the participants in the process of making this decision, which makes serious changes to the pension insurance system, it has been taken without complying with the principles of predictability, clarity and openness and without debate to take account of all the parties concerned. I question that these and other changes in the revenue and expenditure part of the state social security budget for 2019 meet the expectations and needs of Bulgarian citizens. Since 2000, when the maximum insurance income was introduced, it grows annually until GERB came to power. In 2009, it was frozen at 2,000. lv. The level of 2008 and thus by 2013, when it became 2 thousand. 200 BGN, with Oresharski it's 2,000. 400 and again in power is GERB and again freezing the level of 2 thousand. £600. by 2018 with the intention of remaining such until the end of the term of office until 2021. Now surprisingly, and in my opinion, unmotivated and unmotivated, there is an increase in maximum insurance income for all insured persons over 3,000. BGN, which is a step in the right direction, although insufficient in size. Do I remind you that when it was introduced, there was a decision to be 10 times the minimum wage, i.e. in the next 2019 it had to be at least 5 thousand. £600.? Abandoning the maximum insurance income leads to unfair restrictions on the access of insured persons to benefits. We consider it fair the maximum monthly amount of insurance income of 2 thousand. £600. to increase not as offered to 3,000. BGN and at least 3,000. £900. And therefore the maximum pension to increase from BGN 910. not 1200, as predicted, but BGN 1560. with a tendency in the near future to drop both the maximum monthly amount of social security income and the ceiling of pensions. That is what we will propose in our alternative budget. I'm moving on. And for 2019 no contributions are paid to the Guaranteed claims of employees and this is freezing at level zero for the tenth consecutive year. We have long been in a situation of guaranteeing and paying claims to workers and employees, even for employers who have not made a single contribution to the Fund. It is good at least that the maximum amount of guaranteed claims is increased to BGN 1,400. instead of the current 1300. Another question is is this sufficient for the guaranteed claim and does it not limit the rights of employees with salaries above that amount? We do not accept the sharp 60% increase in the insurance income for farmers - farmers and tobacco producers - from 350 to 560 BGN. The motives for this are clear but untenable. And in what way and by what criterion, what formula is this 60% increase determined? Is it read whether the revenues that Bulgarian agricultural and tobacco producers have, for example, at low buying-in prices of agricultural production, will allow them to provide such a level? By increasing their insurance income, will we guarantee them pensions other than the current ones, i.e. higher than the minimum? Commenting on spending policies, I will only remind you that it continues to grow by two months of the pension, age and internship required for the acquisition of a right. I would point out that, in this budget, the policy on the adequacy of pensions for 2019 is also below all expectations. And in 2019 there will be no increase that will lead to a significant increase in the amount of pensions expected by society. That is, nothing other than the up-to-date update, despite constant and continuous demands, petitions, protests by pensioners and other organisations. From the left, we continue to argue that these symbolic 5.7% do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions, and this creates injustice and conflict between generations. They will continue to deepen and increase the differences between the lowest and highest pensions and the number of pensioners who will receive pensions below the poverty line. Do I remind you that the minimum pension for retirement and age is linked to the amounts of disability pensions due to a general illness that condemns miserable existence to people with permanent disabilities because they are insufficient for normal life and treatment? No one believes that with the 5.7% increase in pensions, and from 1 July, inflation will be compensated and will be sufficient for this more than 2 million. $150,000. Bulgarian pensioners to live at least as they lived in 2018. It should be clear to everyone in this country that it will not be possible with the increase of BGN 207. 60 cm. BGN 219. 43 p.m., as of July 1st, minimum pension for retirement and age, and increased by 125 BGN. 58 s. One hundred and thirty-two BGN. 74 c. social pension for old age, which comes from nearly a million and a half Bulgarian pensioners, to buy food and medicine and to live normally with this money. And the average pension of BGN 383. remains far below the required amount of maintenance and will again be quite close to the poverty line. On the left hand side, we believe that in order to ensure a decent existence of Bulgarian pensioners, adequate solutions must be found to give fair solutions on the size of pensions, that is, all should be recalculated so that the lowest ones are at least close to the poverty line. Therefore, in the alternative budget, we will propose a recalculation of the pensions of all Bulgarians with the average income from a later year, leading to a more significant increase in pensions. I'm going to the unemployment benefit. Despite the increased amounts of minimum wage and maximum social income, the minimum daily amount of unemployment compensation is frozen at BGN 9. and the maximum daily size of BGN 74,29 Justice requires and our proposal will be after we have legally determined the upper limit of the compensation of 60% of the average insurance income of the person, to set a lower limit of 60% of the minimum wage or minimum social income, i.e. 16 BGN. daily. Otherwise, the motivation for the need to provide for such low benefits, which are below the poverty line, is depreciated. More the cost. After pensions I will also note the fact that, as so far, during all the departments of GERB, with small exceptions achieved after strong public pressure, there is no change in the size of much of the parameters of social payments in the state budget and in the budget of state social security. That is, they are frozen in spite of the serious proclamations of the social focus of the budget and the set in more than millions. They are frozen as in almost all budgets of the previous years when GERB manages. I will not miss the list of frozen social payments for 2019. First, through the budget of state social security: compensation for raising a child from one to two years. This freezing directly shows the attitude of the government towards the demographic catastrophe in the country, although an increase even to the minimum wage will hardly solve our serious demographic problems. One thing is certain that keeping the compensation at low levels is seriously hindering the solution of the demographic problems and this should disturb every Bulgarian. Answer me: how will freezing the amount of benefits for raising a young child from one to two years of age for a consecutive year of 380 BGN will stimulate young workers and provide, including for pregnancy and childbirth in women, to give birth and raise children with amounts close to the poverty line? Adding to that the inability of young families to use nursery and gardens so that the parent can return to work early, the situation becomes tragic. Our alternative proposal will be to make the compensation equal to the minimum wage for the country for 2019. For the minimum and maximum amount of unemployment benefits, I have already commented. The other social payments frozen through the 2019 budgets are: monthly benefits for children; single benefit for pregnancy; single birth aid; single birth aid for twins; single child adoption aid; single benefit for female mothers; single benefit for a child with permanent disabilities; monthly benefit for a child of one year to an uninsured mother; monthly support for twins; monthly support for children with permanent disabilities; average monthly income for the acquisition of benefits; one-month aid for first-graders; guaranteed minimum income. I've listed a total of 15, maybe more. In conclusion, I will draw attention to the fact that in the discussions on the adoption of the budget in the National Assembly during the first and second votes, usually the government throws numbers, figures and percentages at us, rather than presenting the various policies on gross domestic product and its redistribution through the budget. It confuses people how with more money they'll live worse next year. They are under the impression that there is no way out of serious problems. Therefore, we have been very responsible in our proposals and views on budgetary issues since last year, namely: we provide an entirely alternative budget in which we say where the money will come from and where it will go. With it, we will give the opportunity, if you support it, to mitigate the negative consequences for people of the appreciation of life. The new policies and parameters in our alternative budget will have little impact on the balance of government budgets. Our readings prove that all the priorities we have set in the alternative budget are feasible and do not weigh on public finances. Finally, I would point out that public social security, social assistance and social payments themselves play an important and crucial role in reducing poverty and inequalities. With the budget of state social security for 2019, the ruling majority offers us vision, policies, measures and does not respond to this challenge by improving the adequacy of benefits and pension. The policy pursued in terms of the proposed budget of state social security not only cannot reduce poverty and income inequality, but also creates serious prerequisites for deepening it in a purely short term. Of course, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will not support the government's proposed budget of state social security for 2019 because it is impossible for the normally thinking and socially oriented person to support such policies of freezing social payments and neglecting the real problems. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Next statement, Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable representatives of the National Insurance Institute and Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin, firstly, with praise and congratulations to the team of the National Insurance Institute for preparing a highly-expert structural budget of state social security for 2019. There is nothing by chance in this. Traditionally, the National Insurance Institute's Supervisory Board and the management of the National Insurance Institute each year serve the national representation seriously structured and expertly supported budget of state social security. I started with this commendation because these people with 1,04% of the costs this is their alimony, they work the way I told you just now. Three thousand and five hundred people from the National Insurance Institute system work with a maintenance of 1,04% of all costs. Just for comparison, the people of the National Health Insurance Fund work with 1.3% of the costs, and the Public Finance Act allows up to 3% of the public expenditure, but this is another topic. A few words on the macroframe of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first year, the transfer from the state budget to the state social security budget decreases below 4 billion. For next year it is about 3 billion. 900,000. lv. For information only, for 2018 the transfer, i.e. the tax money, which is included in the state social security budget, is 4 billion. 500 million. lv. However, I would like to point out immediately that, for the next budget of the year, all the funds of state social security, with the exception of a small fund, which is still under deficit, with the largest and most surprising for me, is in the security sector. 900,000. lv.. For information only, last year we increased the contribution to this fund by 20%. In other words, their contribution to the Fund is now slightly over 40% and again generates a deficit. I say this for a reason, I will come to another point in relation to the contribution between insurance contributions and the corresponding payments. In the next place, as a result of the policies we are proposing over the years, from the Kalfin reform, I repeat, there will be less than 7800 pensioners in the next year than the increased age and internship. In financial terms, we are talking about 13 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. less financial resources, i.e. the difficult conditions for access to the pension system cost state social security 13,5 million. With the 10 billion budget of the Fund, what are we talking about, is 13,5 million money making it difficult for the state social security budget and everyone who can't retire? It's a question of reflection for the next administration. Next, the growth of the average insurance income is only 75 BGN. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, and this increase in salaries in the budgetary sphere, with the increase of 20% in salaries in the field of education and in all other increases in revenues in the budget of state social security, we report an increase in average social income by only 75 BGN. And another thing is that 534 million is more money than last year for the Pancy Fund. As a result of the increase of BGN 534, see what we are talking about. The proposal is the average amount of pension for next year to increase to BGN 386. or with BGN 22, 534 million more "22 million more average amount of pension." Not to mention the minimum dimensions... will soon be about this as well. In terms of revenue. For this year, the expected revenue growth compared to the programme, compared to the plan, is 224 million more. Just last year, when I suggested that the revenues increase by 150 million, notice, not 224, but 150 million, so that we can increase some of the spending policies the Ministry of Finance from nine wells of water brought me to prove that this is not going to happen! Turns out there's about 224 million more revenue going on compared to the program. By the end of the year, they may decrease, because this is about September, but these are the estimates of the National Insurance Institute. Next, the revenue. Revenues increased by 732 million compared to this year's report. I am talking without transfers, and compared to last year's 2018 programme, revenues increased by 956 million. This is a commendable step to increase revenue, but the increase in revenue, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, is not due to some sober will or some cash bonus of the government, due to the measures that have started since the beginning of next year, and who are they? The increase of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring people from 510 to 560 BGN.; increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers from 350 to 560 BGN From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will no longer talk about this topic. I just told you in the Fund "Pensions" under art. 69 in the sector "Secretary" at 40% of the contribution, we are talking about singleness 99. 100 million, and what do we want from these most vulnerable layers of the Bulgarian population - farmers and tobacco producers? The growth rate is 600 million. From our parliamentary group we will offer an increase of 50 BGN, as we agreed with the Ministry of Finance last year. We will no longer comment on this subject. Let the government take responsibility for this. Next, the increase in maximum insurance income. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, can you tell me which election platform of the government, which document of whether in the three-year budget forecast, not now in the updated because there you changed this, but in the three-year pre-election budget programme, where it is said that there is a maximum insurance income of 3000 BGN.? There's no such thing! In the biparty format of trade unions and part of the team of the government, notice, without experts who understand this topic, an increase of 3000 BGN has been achieved. Whom do you burden with a greater resource, honourable colleagues of the government? Those who are the highly profitable ones in the IT sector vote for your political power. You didn't tell them in advance before the election that you were going to increase their maximum insurance income, now what are you doing? What arguments do you make this thing? With the arguments: to solve the problem with the maximum amount of pension. Even if you haven't decided anything there, it'll be about that in a little while. We from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms will propose that the maximum insurance income will remain at the levels of 2018, or BGN 2600. Take a look at what this is all about. One hundred and forty-seven thousand out of two million. $750,000. '760 thousand. provided employed and employed in Bulgaria. One hundred and forty-seven thousand are those that are limited by the maximum insurance income of BGN 2600. Now, when introduced, these people will pay the larger amount. The fiscal effect of this measure is 138 million, 138 million with nearly 12 billion budget of state social security. What are we talking about? I think we're talking about a shy, cowardly proposal so you can satisfy the unions. It's no coincidence they're happy now. Of course they'll be happy. They insist that there should be an increase in the maximum insurance income for a long time. Who are we burdening with more insurance contributions? Those who are highly educated, those in the IT sector, those whose activities lead to a higher value, to higher incomes, and now we burden them so that we can do what? So let's increase by 22 BGN. the average amount of the pension. If it's politics, I don't understand it that way. Next, in terms of spending policies. For 2018, 648 million is increased the costs of state social security. Here enter short-term, long-term, and pensions. For pensions only, the increase is 534 million "8.6% of gross domestic product." Soon I will tell you what this increase is due to. It is not due to an increase in pensions, but due to the old debts. It is an old obligation this year to pay all year round what the United Patriarchs insisted on. pension. It is an old obligation to pay the increase by 3.8% of the increase from 1 July last year. These are things that we need to consider when we talk about increased costs. And that's why the average size increases by 22 BGN, not by more. Next, the rate for each year of internship is increased from 1,169, as for 2018, to 1.2. Yes, but fanfarically and quite pompously you concluded an agreement between employers, trade unions and government in 2015, in which an agreement did not include a halt of 1.2% per year of service. There was talk of increasing this percentage to 1.5%. Why are we stopping now to 1.2% increase in the percentage of service? There's no explanation, no reading. We sit down trade unions and part of the government and decide without employers who pay social security contributions and are part of the social security system. Next, increase the maximum amount of all pensions from 910 to 1200 BGN. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is said in the current and at this time and hour the Social Security Code that the ceiling of pensions falls from 1 January 2019 on newly granted pensions. What we say to people who, in the implementation of the Law, have continued to be provided for three years on maximum social security income, to implement the Law as it is written, and at one point by a political decision we say to them: "No, no, the ceiling will not fall. It will be increased to 1,200 BGN For the execution of a law, you put up with a financial penalty for fulfilling the law, and you wanted to have a greater adequacy of the pension you received. Where is this thing, ladies and gentlemen of the House?! I'll be done in a minute. That's the most important thing. Those people who 36 months didn't take advantage of their retirement rights so they could then get the real amount of pensions, what happened to them? They're lying now. That is why I say that trust in the pension system is not built in this way with decisions made at the last moment, with decisions being made on the move. And the last thing I want to say to you. I'm addressing the Patriots. Minimum pension for internship and age. What's going on with your 300 leva, where are they? We can't see them. What's going on with the wheelchair pension audit? We don't see them for a year and a half. Do you know why we can't see them? Because there's no way that's gonna happen, there's no way that's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u64	They're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u65	I've said it many times from this tribune: you would have revised the disability pensions and increased the minimum pension with the savings. But I don't see the second budget in that. You lied to the voters. That's my answer. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]] And the last thing I'm graduating with. Look, you cannot, there is no pension system in Europe that has two ceilings, one to be determined each year according to the maximum social security income of 40%, and a second ceiling of 40% has one individual pension ratio of each of us. There are enough restrictive measures in this coefficient that do not allow it to grow. The problem with the categorical workers in the formula is not solved. What happens now? In addition to this individual pension coefficient, there is another coefficient of the maximum individual coefficient. The maximum individual coefficient is the ratio between the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income, which for next year is offered to be 3000 BGN. This is in the numerator. In the denominator is the average insurance income for the country that grows every month. Every month and every year the denominator grows. What is the benefit of this, with the other individual pension coefficient solving the issue? However, these are somewhat more expert issues that I do not want to go into. Finally, the budget of state social security does not guarantee higher levels of social protection. The budget of state social security, as proposed, deepens the disproportions in the system and guarantees only survival on the edge of misery, to great regret. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u66	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the risk of repeating a lot of the things that have been said, I would like to start with this. What is the budget of state social security? This is a political document of the government and of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which shows what is the vision of the government in the field of income, the fight against social inequality, poverty, the vision of the social and pension system, benefits, care for socially vulnerable groups and mothers. And what is the document we are looking at now? This is a budget with no clear vision, without an adequate direction to combat the screaming low incomes of the Bulgarian population. Even more so, there is no predictability and predictability. From what we propose in the Transitional and Final Provisions with amendments to the Social Security Code, what predictability and predictability do we give to Bulgarian citizens? What security do we give to those who currently contribute insurance to the insurance system when we reform the insurance and pension system every year?! I don't want to talk about the specific amounts, but I will mention just a few of them. Planned revenue. Unclear why, ruling ladies and gentlemen, are you betting such low growth on insured persons for next year? This forms the revenue side of the state social security budget. We're talking about the screaming need for footage that allowed people from third countries to come and work here in light mode. Why are you betting so few insured persons on top, given that this year you are over-executing the plan considerably more?! I don't want to talk about the other thing that's causing extreme confusion in the revenue section. I'm not talking to millions, I'm talking to percentages. You increase the average social security income by 8.4%, given that this year at the end there is overrun around 2.5%. Next year you increase by 10% for those who work in the budget area, increase the growth for those who work and contribute to the Master's pension fund. Why are you betting so low on height? And one more thing. You bet an extremely small increase in maximum insurance income. Here, I will oppose what has been said by the speaker in relation to the maximum social security income. From our parliamentary group, we believe that this is an extremely timid step. The maximum social security income must be significantly increased, and those who receive more must contribute jointly and equally to the insurance system. The maximum insurance income is far from what Bulgarian citizens expect. In the cost you do not give what is necessary to the unemployed or mothers, you take away the pensioners precisely because you reduce the income. I will read a sentence from Minister Biser Petkov from his comments on the budget of state social security. He says: "The budget of state social security guarantees the adequacy of all insurance payments. " What kind of adequacy are we talking about? I will now draw attention to the adequacy. We are raising the percentage of insurance income on basic economic activities by only 4.7%, and without any tools, for another year, given that the increase in the minimum wage is 9.8.9.9%. We only increase the maximum insurance income from BGN 2600 to BGN 3000. And again, the poor will give more than the rich. Refunds. For mothers, the amount of 380 BGN is maintained, provided that this is a very insufficient amount for raising a Bulgarian child. How do we stimulate birth rates? Do we think that these mothers will leave their children when they are one year old, when there are no necessary nursery facilities available in large cities?! It is high time for the compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age to be linked to the minimum wage. It's a tool used in past management. It is the fairer instrument because we are talking here not about a threshold of poverty, but about raising every Bulgarian child. I will also draw attention to the minimum amount of unemployment benefit that is maintained. The minimum size remains 9 BGN, as well as in the past year, which amounts to 180 BGN. monthly, which is far from the poverty line. I'll say this. If we open the Labour Code and see the grounds for termination of employment, all the grounds, except for art. 328, when it comes to reducing the state and reducing the volume of work, are based on the compensation that those who terminate mutual relations will receive and those who decide that the work they are given does not correspond to what they are offered in advance and leave the respective jobs. We'll leave the settlement at £9. and we condemn those people who will seek adequate work within just 4 months, again with 9 leva. Why didn't we think of an instrument that was tied to the poverty threshold and the minimum wage? If we remember last year when we proposed the maximum threshold for unemployment benefits, then we used the argument that the minimum wage was rising. And now that we're freezing the maximum amount, what argument do we use to freeze it after the minimum wage increases? There isn't one. Finally, in order not to bore the House, because, as far as I can see, on the right, they are not excited about what we are going to accept right now, because they have accepted that this document already has a finished appearance and should not be revised, I would like to say something about pensioners. In our view, this decisive turn, which you did two months before what was supposed to happen in early 2019, shows that there is no way that Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian population can believe in the pension model. I'll say it again because Mr. Ademov mentioned it. In 2015, you said that the people to whom pensions will be granted from 2019 will not have a ceiling. We are now putting the ceiling back on for two months before this reform takes place. Then you told people that the internship rate would matter. You said that every adult who needs to work has the necessary qualities and capacity is important to participate in the work system. You said the internship rate would grow, it would grow to 1.5%. What do we do now? And now, two months before 2019, we say that the internship rate will not grow, but remains at 1.2%. From what you propose in the budget for state social security with an increase of 5.7% in pensions from 1 July 2019, how do you compensate for all these increases that are happening at the moment? The minimum pension is increased by 12 BGN. medium-yearly. On average for the following year these 12 BGN are reflected, from 1 January 2019 to 6 BGN. Imagine: how do we survive the 70th - 75% of Bulgarian pensioners who live on the poverty line? We increase their pensions by an extremely low size and we are talking about the large increase of 5.7%. Our parliamentary group believes that proper, fair, solidarity and equal behaviour with regard to Bulgarian pensioners should be expressed in the recalculation of all pensions. We will propose this between first and second readings, and now we will not support at first reading our proposals Draft on the budget of state social security because it does not give the adequacy that Bulgarian citizens expect. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today our attention is the Draft Law on State Social Security for 2019. I will start by saying that he received overall support from trade unions and employers' organizations. The biggest advantage of the State Social Security Budget Project is that it simultaneously improves the financial stability of state social security and ensures a higher adequacy of pensions and benefits. It is evidence that, compared to the expected implementation for 2018 next year, pension expenditure is planned to increase by more than 553 million. BGN and the costs of short-term benefits of more than 85 million. lv. This is an increase of 5.9% and 5.5% on an annual basis. As a result, from 1 July 2019, all pensions allocated to 2018 will be increased by...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u70	Excuse me, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, it's a little louder than we can afford. Please give Mrs. Angelova a chance to speak calmly from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u71	Thank you. As a result, from 1 July 2019 all pensions granted until 2018 will be increased by 5.7%. We must emphasise that this is the largest increase in several years. This year, on 1 July, pensions were increased by 3.8%, and in 2014, I particularly recall the opposition, the pensions were increased by 2.7%. Thus, the income of over 2 million. 160,000. pensioners will grow in sync with inflation and wage growth. Speaking of the incomes of insured persons, it is no secret that in recent years wages have been rising rapidly. Thanks to the economic growth and labour market development policy, the number of employees is increasing and the number of unemployed is already record low. It is quite logical for careers with longer periods of employment and higher income to be rewarded by the social risk insurance system. Therefore, the State Social Security Budget project for 2019 sets out additional funds for the payment of short-term benefits at higher rates. Compared to the planned in the State Social Security Budget Act for 2018 in the following year, the daily rates of dependent on insurance income are the most massive benefits for pregnancy and childbirth, for unemployment, for a total disease will increase by nearly 10%. With the Budget Project state social security for 2019 is proposed from 1 July 2019 to increase the maximum amount of pensions from 910 BGN. £1,200. It should not be forgotten that the current legislation provides for the so-called ceiling of pensions to become BGN 1040. With the adoption of the Law the maximum amount of pensions will increase from 1 July 2019 by 290 BGN. or nearly 32%. This will bring about another important step towards a higher adequacy of pensions. Over 41 500 pensioners whose pension is currently limited to BGN 910 will be able to receive the full amount of pensions. Last but not least, the existence of a ceiling will not allow the payment of individual pensions, calculated due to distortions in the years, in amounts which do not correspond to the contribution of insured persons. The criticism that the ceiling of pensions should be dropped for newly granted pensions is insufficiently justified. If this had happened, conditions would have been created for receiving pensions in a particularly large amount.................................................................................................. In addition to contributing to the adequacy of pensions, such a measure must also be considered as an instrument for preserving the financial sustainability of state social security. This is the second topic I want to address. If we look at the parameters of state social security, we will see that it continues the trend of the transfer from the state budget to cover the shortages to decline. Nearly 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In 2018, in 2019 the transfer is intended to cover the lack of State budget funds, to decrease to 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In practice, approximately two thirds of the revenue will come from insurance contributions, and only one third will be the deficit to be covered by a transfer from the state budget. Thus, state social security is much closer to its model, financed by insurance contributions instead of financed mainly by taxes. Thus, for only four years the deficit in state social security will decrease from nearly 5% of gross domestic product in 2016, to less than 3.5% of gross domestic product in 2019. This is undoubtedly a positive fact that deserves attention, which strengthens the financial stability of state social security and, above all, reduces its dependence on the state budget. I would like to emphasise that these results, this reduction in the deficit in the pension fund, are not achieved by cutting social rights. The truth is that these results are achieved thanks to economic development policy and financial stability. They are also the result of the proper government policy on incomes. This is the increase in maximum insurance income, minimum insurance thresholds, minimum wage. While maintaining the amount of insurance contributions and income taxes of natural persons, these policies result in a greater available income for workers, but increase the insurance base and the income from contributions to state social security. These measures stabilise both the financial situation of the state social security and the protection of the long-term interest of the insured persons. It is good for critics of these management decisions to take this fact into account because, in addition to raising the income from insurance contributions in the system, higher insurance benefits give higher insurance rights to insured persons. Take, for example, the maximum insurance income. You know that one of the elements of the pension formula is the individual coefficient, which represents a ratio between personal insurance income and the average insurance income for the country. On the other hand, since 2000, the maximum insurance income on which insurance contributions are made has been in place. The maximum insurance income in Bulgaria has not been changed since 2015 and is at the amount of BGN 2600. For the same period, notice, the average insurance income for 2018 is nearly 900 BGN. In this period we have an increase in average social security income by nearly 25%. If this trend continues, incentives for insured persons with higher incomes to participate in the pension system will decrease. They will not be able to provide on incomes higher than BGN 2600 and the increase of the average insurance income for the country will reduce their individual coefficients and thus they will not be able to receive their real pensions, but will receive lower pensions. That is why the increase of maximum insurance income from 2600 to 3000 BGN. is in the interest of the insured persons. The increase is not only made in order to have more revenue in state social security but to protect the interests of insured persons providing for higher incomes. The income policies set out in the Draft Law on State Social Security Budget for 2019 are a step in the right direction. Finally, the proposals in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Social Security Code should also be commented. In addition to the parameters of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, these changes will bring justice to the pension system. Changes are subject to fundamental and universal social security principles. There can be no dispute that the amount of pension should reflect as fully as possible the entire career of insured persons. Finally, I would like to point out the arguments why the Draft Law on State Social Security for 2019 deserves to be supported. Firstly, it guarantees higher protection for pensioners and insured persons. On the other hand, notice, this is not at the expense of the pension fund deficit, the deficit of the pension fund is significantly reduced, the financial stability of state social security becomes greater, the insurance system will be more sustainable and less dependent on state social security. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I have a very short line. What policies in the budget of the State Social Security for 2019 are you trying to solve the country's severe demographic crisis? [[GERB lines.]] I don't know what those horny screams are. I'm asking questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u74	Guys, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u75	What policy are you trying to ease deepening inequalities and reduce poverty in general? In addition to the larger amount of money allocated through the budget of the State Social Security for 2019, what is different from the budget for 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Another line? Is there a second line? You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you said: "The Christians should take some facts. I will ask the budget defenders to take account of some reactions and realities. You say higher pension adequacy, and you're hiding among hundreds of millions and percentages. The truth is simple. The truth is that everything you talk about is translated into an increase in pensions by 8, 10, 12, 13 BGN. That's what this is about. Go explain to the two million pensioners who every day in the reception room ask you: how to live with 210 BGN. A month?! How do you live when my meds cost more than my pension gives me? Ask them that and then talk about adequacy. And one small question: when you talk about what they've done before and how much they've raised one or another, I remind you that pensions have been recalculated for the last time in 2008. 11 years ago! It wasn't possible sooner! Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, you increase and recalculate your salary every three months. So for one, it's not possible in 11 years, and for the other, it could be three months. [[Shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u78	Guys, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! I note to the MPs that, while explaining to the pensioners that it is not possible to recalculate their pensions, they recalculated their own salaries 44 times during the same period. That they can explain it to them and then explain it to us critics. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Third line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! Dear colleague Angelova, I'm afraid you did not properly put your statement because it lacked the comparative analysis. For example, it was missing that in 1998 the minimum pension was BGN 67. The government of Maslarova refused to index it not with 17 levs, but with 17 pennies. [[Applause from GERB.]] I also ask you not to miss to note that the government of the Triple Coalition has not paid off any recalculated pensions. Leave them for payment to the next government.. Boyko Borisov's first government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u82	Thank you. It's a hole. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable replicators! Apparently, populism is your trademark when it comes to income growth, pensions. You do not realize, that is what I said in my speech, the increase in pensions in the following year from 1 July 2019 will be 5.8%. This is the biggest increase in a few years, including, when you were in charge. [[Applause from GERB.]] In 2014, you also increased pensions from 1 July 2014 by 2.7%, increased the minimum pension then by 3 BGN. And a few pennies. This must not be forgotten. You have a short memory and you must be constantly reminded. In terms of increasing and recalculating pensions, we have also spoken in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Stop speculating about this recalculation of the pensions of all pensioners with the income from 2017, as you will suggest. Let us make it clear that this will cost 1 billion. 7 million. lv. Mr. Gokov, to ask you: who will pay this price?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Gyokov, in the manner of conduct. I'm asking you to keep it the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u85	Very brief in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, when you hear that this tribune tells honest lies [[GERB noise and lines]] by a man who was at that time a city councilman from BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u86	Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u87	...naturally, you have to interrupt it. Mr. Chairman, perhaps you should have noted that what he was saying was not true because the recalculated pensions in 2007 were paid by 1 January 2008 Yes, Mr. Chairman, interrupt such people who speak frankly untruthfully...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u88	That's different.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u89	...from here in the interest of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u91	And no matter how much they shout from there, it doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u92	Mr. Gokov, please! Mrs. Zheleva, you have the floor in the stands in the hopes of calming Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers! The gradual and gradual reduction in the deficit of state social security, which we can mention, is one of the small positive remarks on the budget, if it can be said to be positive, because the state of deficit of most of the funds continues, except one which is extremely worrying. 69, which was mentioned just now, given that the contribution was increased by 20%. A few minutes ago, a lot of comments were made and I will note it, the increase in old pensions by 5.7%. It has been said that on average a pensioner takes 250 leva. This is BGN 14, not to mention BGN 250. Almost as much as the minimum pension. And that's 1 million and 500 Bulgarian citizens. On the occasion of the lines just now, where is the money and if there is money for that, of course there is. They're distributed by one person. Ask how money is distributed at the end of the year through the so-called PMS and that someone gives it out of their pocket, for some municipalities that are close to the government. That's where the pensioner's money is. With this increase not only will not change the lifestyle of a pensioner, but will increase the difference between the old pensions, which are the lowest, and those that we are now increasing, even minimally, the ceiling of pensions. It's more disturbing than that. The minimum unemployment benefit will not only increase minimally, as the previous year, but remains nine levs. That's about 180 BGN. a month. You know how he's gonna get through a guy who's out of a job. It's nothing. [[Comments from GERB: "No unemployment. "]] Tell that to your constituents that there is no unemployment and there are no poor people. What social is there in that almost all social payments and benefits have remained unchanged over the years? One of the main problems of the demographic crisis is that there are no measures. On the contrary, they're frozen. The amounts of basic social payments that colleagues have mentioned before are frozen, I will not list them. The support policy for young families is zero, and we even have a demography minister. For another year a mother will raise her child in the second year with 380 leva. For years this amount has been shamefully small. A mother, a family will raise this child with a sum well below the poverty line and well below the minimum wage. Problems in the social sphere are the most sensitive to citizens. That is why reform is needed. That is why reform is needed, as we mentioned before, in pension legislation, reform of youth policy. Alternative to what you propose there is and we will do it with our proposals between first and second readings. Dear rulers, 4, 10 and 50 million is not a reform if you do not thus improve the lives of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I thought not to take the floor, but it is really nice to recall some facts and circumstances when it comes to the incomes of Bulgarian pensioners. This hypocrisy... I don't know, don't BSP have any shame when they say those things? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let us recall in the previous parliament, when we proposed a minimum pension of 300 BGN. indexing, with a coefficient, where were your MPs, Mrs. Ninova? Where were they? Why did you take them out of the room to vote only 20? [[Applause from OP.]] Because some of these MPs you have punished them now are not MPs, but they themselves told us outside: Mrs. Ninova told us to go out, to be no more than 20 people in the hall. And that increase wasn't achieved because of that. It took five more votes. That's the truth. When you go out and deceive people, you should have a little shame! I don't know how you're not ashamed.! There are BSP MPs here who are new and do not know these things. Check with the previous parliament. Check the last year of the budget. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] About what? There is. How many people voted for 20 people out of 50 of the BSP. [[Heckling]] 50 out of 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u96	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u97	Yeah, right, she wasn't! You can check it out. How could she not have been when you picked her right at the end? Yeah, she wasn't! [[Heckling]] You check very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Don't come in here and talk to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u99	Because the BSP didn't support the Patriots' proposals then, so they didn't pass, and today we wouldn't be talking about these things, but they would be resolved. It's the truth! Anyone can check it in Parliament's minutes. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, there is no way to delete...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u102	I apologize, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u103	...with the charge of BSP your disgrace.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u104	Mr. Popov, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u105	With the stolen Bulgarian passports, with the false promises you made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u106	Mr. Popov, it turns out you don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u107	Mrs. Ninova was not chairman of the BSP. Frankly, you keep lying here and now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u108	Abort the speech, please! Mr. Svilensky's procedure. That wasn't a line. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky, hold on. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Angelov. It was more of a challenge.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u109	I accept the challenges, so it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u110	Please just be careful!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u111	I call on the Bulgarian media to check in the last year of the previous National Assembly when the budget was voted, who was elected President of the BSP, how many people were from the BSP in the Chamber and how many votes this proposal did not pass. Let them conclude as well as the Bulgarian citizens whether this party is social or otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Svilensky's way of handling it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I waited for both the President of the National Assembly and the Chair of the Legal Committee to enter the Chamber. Dear colleagues, today at 13.30 you adopted a draft decision, which reads as follows: "In view of the roll call check carried out, Mr. Kirilov, Chair of the Legal Commission, makes a proposal to discuss and vote a draft decision with regard to the MPs who have not participated in this roll call check. [[Heckling]] In the manner of conduct, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u114	It's been a while, Mr. Svilensky. [[Radio and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u115	It's been voted on today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u116	Do you have something for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u117	Mr. President, I ask that you take account of my speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group so that I do not violate the Rules of Procedure and that you give me the opportunity for another 10 minutes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u118	Mr. Svilensky! [[Noise and lines.]] Be quiet, this is already a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u119	The draft decision, honourable Members, is as follows: 10, para. 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the Financial Rules of the National Assembly budget. We were impressed by both the media and Bulgarian citizens that perhaps the MPs who do not participate in the meeting will not receive the corresponding remuneration, which is normal. And which we'll see in just an hour, when the reports begin to be read, how many people will remain in the room. And that's normal. By asking for the transcript, Mrs. Karayancheva, I want you to come out and explain the decision, because now I will read Article. 10: The transport costs of a national representative shall be recognized when travelling with the state and municipal inland transport... and the water transport of the first class, and a sleeping space for the entire internal transport network. I mean, colleagues, this afternoon, if someone travels in a sleeping car, they won't be confessed. Mrs. Karayancheva won't pay the ticket. The transport costs of the Members of the National Assembly on private bus lines in relation to their activity shall be recognised. Here, Mr. Kirilov, you haven't asked any of your party founders, but I'm leaving it for another moment. Transport costs of Members of the National Assembly selected in areas with which there is an airline connection and more than 250 km away shall be recognised... I mean, if someone took off this afternoon, they wouldn't be recognized for their plane ticket. The Members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to accommodation and subsistence... [[Laughter, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That is, colleagues, today you are not entitled to accommodations and daily ones, but not you who are here and who did not participate in the inspection, but those who Ms. Karayancheva by her own act has posted them either abroad or elsewhere. That is to say, the President of the National Assembly is posting MPs to represent our institution, and Danny Kirilov is taking away the missionaries. Madam President, this indicates... [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] ...this way of legislation, where you amend the Rules of Procedure, which is a law in the State, with a procedure from this tribune of the President of the Legal Commission, without having a draft decision without going through committee without being discussed anywhere, you put it to the vote. My request is that you really go out here on this stand and explain the draft decision because there are colleagues who are posted abroad by you, and they now do not know whether they can represent the National Assembly abroad or cannot represent the National Assembly. Colleagues, I understand where your shoe tightens. I see where your shoe's tightening! It is difficult to do.. 121 MPs in a broken coalition. You can't put this structure together and it can't be stable. Only these 80 MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u120	Seventy-nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u121	Seventy-nine MPs on the left won't be able to buy them with 200 leva each. a day. These MPs have dignity and they know what they are working for in the Bulgarian Parliament. Don't do police and cop tricks. You won't be able to do name checks, you won't be able to devoid of accommodations, airline tickets and bedroom seats to get the MPs to sleep here in the hall. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll see you in just one hour how many people you'll be staying and I'll want the chairman to do a roll call and get a salary only those who were on the last committee report. Everything else borders on populism. Mr. Kirilov, please don't change the rules here from this tribune. Go to your office, go home, sleep over, think about it, and then get out on the stand. Stop messing around! You are the President of the Legal Commission and it is unacceptable for the Bulgarian Parliament to adopt such decisions which are contrary to the Rules, which is a law in the Bulgarian Parliament and which must be respected by all, even by the President of the Legal Committee, even by the President of the National Assembly. Mrs. Karayancheva, I invite you to explain to this stand the decision that was made just now. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u122	Mr. Svilensky, thank you anyway. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria...........................................]] Mr. Kirilov, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u123	I wish, Mr. President, that I could explain in two minutes, but colleagues from the opposition, of course, continue with the manipulations and it is no accident that a fellow lawyer came out to develop this argument, and a colleague from the Transport Commission... [[Noise and lines.]] No, I won't call it...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u124	Please, Mr. Kirilov. Here, look, and Mr. Letifov smiles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u125	I'll hold off. I apologize, Mr. Letifov, I highly appreciate the Committee on Transport and Information Technologies. Dear colleagues, I will start with the following: art. 130, sentence two, this is the legal position of the Member of the National Assembly. It is about the National Representative: the Member of the National Assembly can do this, but the second sentence is the following: The Member is obliged to participate in their work. Is there any doubts that the roll call check is an objective way of verifying the presence of the MPs in the plenary?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u126	What about the 2013 practice?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u127	Yes, Mrs. Ninova, we'll be back in 2013. I will also refer to your practice from 2013. The main obligation of the Member of the National Assembly is that he is obliged to participate in the work of all... [[Noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u128	Please, colleagues, listen carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u129	...including the roll call check. Right, guys, a roll call is a tool... You know as well as I do, there's no point in defining it... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u130	Mr. Milkov, please calm things down!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u131	...is a tool that... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u132	Please listen to Mr. Kirilov's arguments, just listen to them. You'll have a chance to think things over.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u133	I'm going to ask you to stop time until your opposition colleagues calm down. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u134	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u135	I'm not gonna yell at them alone. Screaming and screaming won't do it! Where is the manipulation in reading the Financial Rules of Dear Mr. Svilensky? I have chosen, dear Mr. Svilensky, the four norms. Please, Mr. Chairman, if you have the part of the express transcript, give it to me. [[Noise and lines.]] Here is my proposal: "In view of the verification carried out, I am making a proposal to vote on a draft decision with regard to the Members of the National Assembly... "
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u136	Where's the project?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u137	That's where he is, following the project. So there's the temporal action, they're outlined by the subjects. [[Noise, lines and shouts.]] In relation to them not to apply...... they follow the rules of the Financial Rules. That is to say, honourable Members, a procedural decision was presented to your attention, which is related to a specific failure to fulfil the obligation of a specific circle of determining Members of Parliament, which are also reflected in the stenographic protocol. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, fellow Members, regardless of your subjective understanding, my conviction and statement is that you cannot outsmart the rules of the Rules of Procedure. [[Laughter]] , the rules of the Rules of Procedure, [[noise, lines and cheers]] Not only do they operate in this National Assembly. They acted both in the previous National Assembly and in the previous. Let me remind you because Mrs. Nino lacks the memories of 2013, President Mikov then how he defined the quorum. He said, "There is a visible majority. [[Laughter, noise, lines and shouts.]] That was an extraordinary definition of the Rules of Procedure! In 2013, honourable MPs from the opposition, we received zeros. Zero! Not accommodations, not fuel costs, for those of you who have come today with their private cars, and for those who are going to announce a missionary for being in their electoral district. What cynicism, dear colleagues, what cynicism! [[Noise and lines.]] No, next time I'm gonna pull you out, I'm gonna pull out your travel reports for this weekend, because, yeah, but you're here today, aren't you? You've arrived and you're here. And you can't, you can't, why? Where are you today, dear Mrs. Ninova? Where are you as legal status today, according to the roll call check? Where are you? You don't have a registration, you don't speculate that you've been registered. You're not on registration. You walked in here like mice to register for the second vote! [[Strong noise, lines, shouts: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria. Partial applause by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I don't know how far we can go with the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, in relation to my colleague Svilenski's proposal, I also ask you to give me a punishment according to art. 156, according to the severity of the specific infringement. Yeah, I meant more like the mouse, not the mouse. Thank you. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues! [[National Representative Danail Kirilov is leaving the Chamber.]] Is this the way you're doing it again? Here you go, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Karayancheva! In this way, it cannot continue the current meeting of the National Assembly. I'm ashamed to come here and from this tribune to debate the other proposal at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u142	I'm ashamed too, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u143	You're ashamed of yourself, and that's why you're quiet! When the Chair of the Legal Committee first calls us the mouse, the mouse and so on, and witty about our parliamentary group, you didn't even mention it, but you have to apply the whole strictness of the Rules. Second, Mr. Chairman, you as President of the National Assembly, here is Mrs. Karayancheva [[turns to MP Tsveta Karayancheva, who sits at the first bank in plenary]] I am very interested in how amendments to the Rules are made. On a committee, with written proposals, they look at each other on a committee, not here to come, to get rid of this tribune. Well, I can say today and suggest not to apply the Penal Code or any of the provisions. [[Heckling]] It's the same thing! Absolutely because he has the power of law and is adopted by the National Assembly first in the Commission and then in plenary, but this is your hysteria regarding this grand, not so fragile coalition that you have. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I suggest we end this, really! [[Noise, lines, calls.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev, please come in. Please focus on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u145	Yeah, yeah! Of course, I'll focus on you. It's okay. Mr. Chairman, I am most certainly entitled to speak on this subject, as the most punished MP in this National Assembly. I want to remind you of some of the punishments I've had. For example, the first one, Mrs. Karayancheva, you were vice-president then... [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u146	To me! To me, Mr. Kutev! Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u147	To you. Of course it's for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u148	Leave Mrs. Karayancheva alone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u149	The first punishment you imposed on me, Ms. Karayancheva, as chairman at the time, was that I said to several of our colleagues that as ministers, this was related to the water in Haskovo, they slept through a report saying that there was infection and so on. Take this transcript and look at it. The words that several ministers slept through the report were an excuse to punish me. And now, Mr. Chairman, especially to you: what you do is a double standard. If that was punishment for me, I didn't question it. If I had challenged it, the Conference of Presidents would have to say that this was wrong, at the very least, so that I wouldn't use another word. I didn't argue with him just because I didn't want to ask the chairman for anything! But what you're doing right now is absolutely not serious. It's not a double standard, it's just an attempt to lower the National Assembly to its own personality! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u150	No, Mr. Kutev! It's not a double standard, and this thing can confirm it, Mr. Svilensky. I don't think the imposition of punishment, whatever it is, of a MP, has any role. [[Loud noise. Calling from the left: "Eee! "]] Am I right, Mr. Svilensky? That's right. Colleagues, we're moving on. [[(Noise, lines, cheers on the left:]] Mrs. Karayancheva, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u151	Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! A proposal was made in this House, a reasoned proposal, and I put it to the vote. The moment we voted, Mr. Svilensky asked what exactly we were voting for and asked for a reverse procedure. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] We were already in the process of voting, so I couldn't undo it. At the moment, colleagues from BSP, you were not in the Chamber to find out exactly what was going on in order to be able to answer. Dear colleagues, going or not going to work is a matter of moral, personal and civic choice. I won't say another word! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Svilensky, the way you run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u153	It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Kirilov doesn't receive punishment, I'm really afraid that this meeting will not end! [[Replying, cheering.]] As Mrs. Karayancheva quoted my name, I was in plenary and I wanted to make an exact opposite proposal because, first of all, there were neither arguments, second nor there was a discussion. Where were the 35 minutes of BSP that the Rules of Procedure have to discuss a draft decision? [[Noise and lines.]] Where were the 40 minutes of GERB that they had to discuss a solution? Where were the 16 minutes of the DPS, of the United Patriarchs, of Volya? How exactly did we take it? That's why we're asking the question. And for the insult that Mr. Kirilov did to 79 MPs, and you, if you keep covering for him and don't impose punishment, I'll allow myself to quote a conversation... But, come on, I'm not gonna say it now... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u154	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You insist I do something against myself. [[Noise, lines, shouts: "Eee!" by DPS and by BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's about that... [[Loud noise.]] All right, give me a chance to talk. I'm entitled to my two minutes, aren't I? I will put the matter on the Presidency Council and accept what the Conference of Presidents decides. Until then, we'll all meet... [[Loud noise, lines.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The punishment of a MP is not what we're all used to seeing, at least for me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Karayancheva! You clearly interpret the rules here, as the devil reads the gospel! It is precisely and explicitly written what measures are being taken against MPs who insult the institution because the insult of an entire parliamentary group is an insult to the institution, including its colleagues. The comparison of MPs with different species is an absolute violation of the Rules of Procedure! If you do not know how to lead this National Assembly, please resign. We've already asked for your resignation. Today it's okay for you to confess from this tribune, and do it. Do yourself a favor and do yourself a favor, do all the MPs a favor, because this agony that you are putting us through right now is no longer tolerated! We can't have the chair of the Legal Committee here, I don't know what biology has been receiving as a student, but today he has shown absolutely incompetent behavior and insult to the MPs! Mostly to the institution! [[Noise in the room.]] Indeed, we are called here to work, but not to listen to insults! Take things in the right direction. Otherwise, today really is the time to leave. It's the truth! We have nothing else to say to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I keep saying that the punishment of a MP, whoever he is, is not an emotional act. And I really think... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] No, it's not an emotional act! Yes, it is. lt is written in the Rules, but my view, Mr. Popov... [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] I'm talking right now! I'm speaking from the stands right now because I have the right to my two minutes. I really believe that a punishment can be imposed after a debate in the Presidential Council. This corresponds to the place we occupy here in this National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] There was a request of the word in the manner of conduct on the other side. Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, no matter how honored you may be, I would like to say to all my colleagues and everyone to realize that this is not a plenary session in the Bulgarian National Assembly! [[Loud noise, lines, cheers.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, because you are the chairman, don't you see that this is what they want? [[DPS lines.]] In this way, in which you lead the sitting, you enter into their script! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS, shouts: "Eee! "]] Get a hold of yourself and stop this bullshit they're doing with the institution! [[Applause on the right.]] Today's impression of these laws that we are adopting in connection with the state budget will be erased from everything that has happened in the last ten minutes. [[DPS lines.]] Some people who have been appointed to BSP to make scandals, fairs and hangings have now become raging once again and bring all of us into the eyes of Bulgarian citizens as people unworthy of being here! Therefore, you have this authority, respect the Rules. You have the right to impose penalties, so it says in the Rules, and behave accordingly!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u158	Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u159	Dear President, I would like to tell you that you are not holding this meeting as President of the National Assembly, but as a mouse! [[Noise in the hall. Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u160	Procedure, Mr. Kirilov. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, we've gone far! You're right, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u161	Dear Mr. President, since we are wasting valuable time in unnecessary debate, I repeat my request. It is right, indeed, to sanction this behavior. I apologize to my colleagues for the address. [[Applause from GERB.]] I mean, about the comparison sooner. I will accept any punishment, taking into account the gravity, please consider that, within the framework of the debate and in the context of the situation, I appeal to you not to impose the most severe punishment under point. 6. I agree with and accept any punishment, including removal from this sitting, in order to reassure my fellow Members that there is reciprocity in the measures imposed with regard to their abuse of rights today and their, I say, parliamentary conduct during the roll call, so that I too can be punished with all the consequences of removal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Lazarov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is your right to impose penalties under the Rules of Procedure. They are laid down in the Rules of Procedure: for the use of terms, insulting qualifications. If you are going to impose punishment, I ask you very much, when imposing punishment is still being taken into account, the gravity of the insults spoken should be taken into account, of the words spoken. If you intend to impose, Mr President, take account of the weight, for example, of the expression in the accusation of an entire parliamentary group, to two parliamentary groups: "You have killed, you are murderers, and the expressions spoken. There's got to be proportion in the punishment. This is my request, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u164	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. In the manner of holding Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is this: if you impose punishment on Mr. Kirilov, the same punishment to be imposed on a representative of the BSP, I will not mention his name in order not to ask for a personal explanation, which insulted you, which was very disgusting, because if it is to offend someone, it should offend anyone who thinks he has offended him and not someone else! And the other, when you impose punishment, those who are affected and have recognized themselves in this offensive word, to stand up and say: "I recognized myself as such, so I want punishment! " Let's see how much they recognize each other as such!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u166	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Kutev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, I don't understand what you didn't understand from art. 158 of the Rules of Procedure, which you should, as chairman of the sitting, know almost by heart. It is made by the President to a Member of the National Assembly, who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures, or threat. " If this text was not about Mr. Kirilov's statement, I understand, but he, as far as I understand it, clearly believes it concerns. I believe that this text of art. 158 refers to Mr. Kirilov's statement and I do not understand what you do not understand about this and why you do not take measures. About the thesis that you were going to discuss it at the Chairman's Council in art. 158 of the Rules of Procedure does not say anything about the Presidential Council. It says that if you impose punishment on Mr. Kirilov and he disagrees with him, he may apply to the Conference of Presidents to reconsider the punishment. What is your function here if you chair the sitting and you don't understand that?! You're just acting like a guy who's not about the place he's taking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u168	You wouldn't understand, Mr. Kutev. I'm not explaining. Mr. Topchiev, I thought you asked for the floor. [[Noise and lines in GERB. National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev explains with gestures that he does not want the word.]] Are you sure? Come. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't talk him out of it. [[Laughter]] The way you're holding Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Bulgarian People! We have never allowed Bulgarian citizens to be insulted, and Bulgarian citizens are also the MPs, as Mr. Hristov was offended, as a whole parliamentary group was also offended, as the entire Bulgarian people from the same parliamentary group were offended. We demand that you take adequate measures and impose penalties on all those who have allowed themselves from this tribune to say any insults at your address and at the address of BSP colleagues. Even though they use this language in general to the Bulgarian people. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Colleagues, with the explicit insistence, despite my disagreement, of Mr. Kirilov on the grounds of art. 158 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I impose on you for words of appeal referred to an entire parliamentary group. Mr. Topchiev will not be punished. Mr. Topchiev, you don't deserve to do this with me. You don't deserve this attitude. If you want, here's your tribune. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for my word. I want to tell you that I want you to punish me. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u172	Can you apologize like Mr. Kirilov did?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u173	I'll apologize in private.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u174	From this tribune, this way! You've made an insult to me from here! That's where you insulted me! Here's your tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u175	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u176	You can't do that. Don't turn around. I impose on Mr. Topchiev on the basis of art. 158 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Colleagues, we haven't finished the speeches yet. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I asked for the floor to thank for the discussions of the State Social Security Budget for 2019 in which both the strong and some weaknesses of the proposed draft budget were outlined. I would like to assure you that as the main financial plan of the insurance system The draft budget of the state social security for the next year guarantees the insurance rights of the Bulgarian citizens. The expected higher growth rate of the insurance contributions revenue by about 15% more than those in the budget for this year, or by nearly 1 billion. lv. more than planned for 2018, decisively reduces the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget. For the following year, as highlighted in part of the speeches, two thirds of the expenditure of the state social security budget will be financed by insurance contributions. This brings the insurance system back to its roots, to its core, namely: a Bismarck type insurance system, which is financed primarily from insurance contributions. I would like to stress that with the proposed changes in § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, more than 40 thousand Bulgarian pensioners from 1 July of next year will be able to receive the full amount of their pensions with the substantial increase in the pension ceiling proposed in the budget by 290 BGN from 1 July of next year. Part of the proposed changes to the Social Security Code result from the amendments adopted in 2015 but taking effect from the beginning of 2019 in the pension formula. I would like to emphasise that these changes aim to make a closer contribution to social security, and they are in several directions. First, they relate to the calculation of the individual income-based ratio after 31 December 1999 and accordingly the introduction of the explicit requirement that the individual coefficient should be calculated on a benefit-free basis for a period of no less than 36 months. These changes will also facilitate future pensioners in the exercise of their pension rights, as the pension will therefore be calculated on the basis of data from the register of insured persons and will also ease and speed up pension production, which will also result in the acceleration of the pension granting process. In conclusion, I would say that the proposed changes to the Social Security Code also facilitate the current pensioners who continue to work and provide them because the possibility of calculating and recalculating their pensions is introduced by the National Insurance Institute. With these few words, I would like to call on you to support the State Social Security Budget for 2019. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u178	Thank you, dear Minister. I vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019, No 802-01-46. Vote 189 MPs: 108, against 74, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a re-vote. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u180	Thank you. I re-vote the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019 with No 802-01-46. Vote 192 MPs: 112, against 73, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! And I, like my colleague from GERB, who voted the first time in conscience, voted against it, because this is another budget of state social security, which condemns the Bulgarian pensioners to misery and daily battle, not for survival, but for life. For a year and a half, we convince you that pensioners deserve at least a little hope. Their hundreds of protests during this period, in these years and in all your governments, are just a annoying noise to you. It is pathetic this policy and I assume that you have no idea how to live with a pension of 300 BGN, of which 200 BGN are for medicines and bills, with almost 3 BGN per day. It's sad because older people are made of different dough and they no longer have the strength to fight. You took them away, too. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor, Mrs. Ninova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u183	Dear President Karayancheva, Mr. Minister Goranov, especially colleagues! Before we begin the next point, I call for reason and for the following actions. You are invited once again to strike at the rule of law, by law and by the order in which laws are adopted in the country. You are going to open the point of the state budget, discuss it and vote tomorrow as the first item on the agenda. [[SIGHS IN GERB]] Without the tax laws being passed. Do not make this yet another mistake for today, but also in general for parliamentaryism, for legality and for the rule of law. Stop humiliating the institution of Parliament! You want today, now, to open the big budget with the reading of reports, see your agenda and accept it tomorrow, and then you have placed as an item on the agenda for the adoption of tax laws. Mr. Minister, as a financier, explain to the majority that we cannot accept the big budget in which you have set numbers as a result of tax laws that Parliament has not adopted. Stop squeezing the Constitution, parliamentaryism, institutionalism, the rule of law and order in the country! Which is why I want a break, I want the Presidential Council, I want understanding and reason, to put order in the work of the Bulgarian institution National Assembly, in the constitutional foundations of the state and to have respect for the law and order in Bulgaria! I want a break on behalf of a group and an extraordinary Presidency Council to change the agenda! I ask Mr. Goranov to get involved and start this institution working as required by the Constitution and the laws of the country! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. A line in the way of conduct? He had a proposal for a break. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] I want you to take that into account. You have the floor, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will certainly respect my speech, and I will draw attention to the following. It is very good for the MPs to know the Rules and when a law becomes a law. This happens after he passes the second reading. Nothing stands in the way and there is no way we can accept the state budget until we have adopted the relevant budget laws. Mr. Chairman, if anyone is trying to mislead you, please don't be misled. The adoption of a legislative act takes place with its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, printing with the state seal and after a vote in the National Assembly. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So we can't accept anything as much as some people want. There's no way we can bend our souls and say that we've bypassed any procedure. This is absolutely appropriate and it is nice to remind all MPs how a law becomes a law so that we do not conduct exams from this tribune because we are big and reasonable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u187	A vacation offer has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u188	I'm calling a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u189	Fifteen minutes off.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u190	I declare a 15-minute recess and request that the members of the Conference of Presidents be in the office of the President of Parliament. [[Noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u191	Colleagues, take your seats. We continue with the next item of the Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2019 Importer of the Council of Ministers. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u192	? Report to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Dimitar Radev, Governor of BNB; from the Supreme Judicial Council of Bojan Magdalinchev, representing the Supreme Judicial Council; Sevdalin Mavrov, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council; from the National Insurance Institute Ivaylo Ivanov and Vesela Karaivanova; Boris Grozdanov, Chairman of the Fisk Council. Minister Goranov presented the Draft and the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2019 -- 2021, indicating economic prospects and key assumptions, government fiscal objectives and priorities, focusing on the main parameters of the budgetary framework for next year. Key objectives continue to be the preservation of fiscal sustainability and the implementation of a consistent, transparent and predictable fiscal policy which will contribute to improving the business environment and stimulate the development of the labour market in order to achieve economic growth and employment, sticking to the objectives and measures set out in the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. I. Macroeconomic forecast for the period 2019 - 2021 Main macroeconomic indicators: 1. Gross domestic product The growth of gross domestic product is expected to rise to 3.7% in 2019 due to stronger public investment and public consumption and to remain at a level of 3.5% in the period 2020 -2021. Internal demand will remain leading to the growth of gross domestic product in terms of both consumption and investment. 2. Labour market Unemployment is expected to fall to 4.8 per cent in 2019 and the employment rate will continue to rise from the previous year. At the end of the period 2020, the unemployment rate is expected to decrease to 4% at the end of the forecast horizon. 3. Inflation Base inflation will make a major contribution to the growth of the overall index, while the impact of international prices will be minimal due to the expected slight change next year. The forecast annual average inflation (HICP) for the period 2019 " 2021" is to accelerate prices in 2019 and then start to weaken in line with the dynamics of international raw materials prices. II. Physical policy and basic parameters for the period 2019 "2021" The medium-term perspective is bound by the priority set for maintaining the stability of public finances and is expressed in pursuing the fiscal targets already set for continuing fiscal consolidation and maintaining a close to balanced position on the budgetary balance in the medium horizon. The basis for the development of the updated forecast for the period 2019 - 2021 is the expected implementation of the 2018 budget, which shows that an improvement of the budget balance is expected to be achieved compared to the target set. The deficit in the consolidated fiscal programme will not exceed 1,0 per cent of the projected GDP. Expectations are at the end of the year the budget balance on a cash basis to be an excess of 0,5% of gross domestic product. The fiscal targets for the period 2019 " 2021" have been maintained despite the expected improvement of the budget balance on a cash basis for 2018, and the opportunities for a sharp contraction of national expenditure are limited by both the envisaged new spending policies and the shifting of the time frame for the implementation of certain investment projects. The commitment of expenditure estimates for the next three years is also reported with the expected lower than that estimated for 2018 the absorption of EU funds and the need to speed up this process. III. Key indicators of the consolidated fiscal programme 2019: 1. Revenue: The amount of revenue, aid and donations under the Consolidated Financial Programme is 43,855.0 million. BGN, or 37.7% of GDP. 2. The amount of expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget is 44 455.0 million. BGN, or 38,2% of gross domestic product. The consolidated fiscal programme for 2019 provides for the amount of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the general budget of the European Union for 2019 to be 1 282,1 million. BGN, or 1,1% of GDP. 3. Budget balance: For 2019 it is envisaged that the consolidated fiscal programme's budget balance to be a deficit of 600,0 million. BGN, or relative to the estimated amount of gross domestic product, the deficit is minus 0.5 per cent. Expenditure policies and priorities. The priorities of Budget 2019, which build on the spring medium-term budgetary forecast priorities and assumptions for the development of sectoral and horizontal policies, are as follows: Social policy. - Social protection and equal opportunities for targeted heating aid are provided for an additional 40.4 million. lv. for each year of the forecast period, i.e. 50% more; - for people with disabilities - to ensure the financial framework of the bill for people with disabilities at its adoption are provided for an additional 150,0 million. lv. for each year of the forecast period; - for social inclusion in relation to the introduction of a new type of monthly assistance for children without the right to a deceased parent's inheritance pension according to the changes in the Family Aids Act for children, 7.0 million were estimated under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. lv. The amount of aid for 2019 is 115 BGN. Education. The policies for accessible and quality education shall be implemented through a comprehensive integrated approach based on the tied and coordinated actions of the institutions at national and local level. [[Noise, movement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u193	Mrs. Stoyanova, excuse me. Colleagues, what I see in this House is nothing like a National Assembly. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u194	Defense. The requirement to achieve defence spending is preserved to the defined percentage of GDP in accordance with the National Plan to increase defence expenditure to two percent of the GDP of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2024. Total defence expenditure for 2019 is planned to be 1,839.3 million. BGN, which represents 1,58% of gross domestic product. It's income policy. Besides already provided for in the medium-term budget forecast of spring of this year, an increase in the amount of minimum wage in the following years from BGN 510. At 560 leva. from 1 January 2019 to 610 BGN from 1 January 2020 and from 650 BGN from 1 January 2021, this forecast sets out a 10% increase in salary and social contributions from 2019, which will enable the individual basic monthly salaries of the employed to be increased, based on the post held and the evaluation of the results achieved. Mr. Chairman, I'll be replaced by Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u195	On a sector level in terms of income for 2019, additional estimates have been made: - for education, an increase in remuneration by an average of 20% for 2019 of pedagogical staff in order to reach double in 2021 compared to 2017 the remuneration funds of pedagogical specialists; - increasing the salary and remuneration of staff for electoral posts and for those employed in the judiciary system for which a mechanism for the formation of remuneration is legally regulated; - increasing the resources for staff in the system of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice in order to continue the policy of strengthening capacity. Measures with fiscal impact in insurance and pension policy shall include: - increase the maximum insurance income for all insured persons to 3000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - increase of minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, respectively for 2019 at the amount of 560 BGN, for 2020 s 610 BGN, and for 2021 six hundred and fifty-fifty BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - increase the minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers from 350 BGN. At 560 leva. from the beginning of 2019; - increase from 1 July 2019 to the maximum amount of one or more pensions received to 1200 BGN. "40% of the amount of the maximum social security income for the year concerned. From 1 July 2019 all pensions granted until 31 December 2018 shall be increased by 5.7% (percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code), taking into account the new burden of one year internship. The pension policy in the period 2019 is intended to continue to increase the age for acquiring pension rights from 1 January each year with 2 months for women and 1 month for men. The necessary insurance service for the acquisition of pension rights for both sexes continues to increase by 2 months each year until 36 years for women and 39 years for men in 2021. Budgetary relations of the state budget with the municipalities for 2019 Budget policies with regard to municipalities are aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development, improving efficiency and improving the quality and scope of activities at local level. A major challenge for municipalities is bringing fiscal indicators and debt and financial status rules into line with the requirements of the Public Finance Act, as well as continuing actions for financial recovery in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of municipal finances. The revenue of the municipalities estimated by the Consolidated Financial Programme for 2019 increased by 120,8 million. lv. in relation to those estimated for 2018, due to the emerging trend of the increase in proceeds from property taxes, incomes and income from property and municipal fees. The highest proceeds are provided for by property taxes by 60.4 million. lv. over those set out in the Consolidated Financial Programme for 2018 The draft budget for 2019 includes the amounts of the main budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget of a total of 3,745.8 million. lv. The planned increase compared to those adopted by the 2018 budget is 481.7 million. BGN, including the general subsidy for the activities delegated by the State........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ lv.; of the interest rate subsidy by 10,0 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 3.0 million lv.; of the capital expenditure target subsidy - by 15,0 million lv. Under the Law of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 1. Revenue, aid and donations are offered at a total of 25 693.3 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of the 2018 budget by 2,77.5 million. lv. This increase was formed by expected in more revenue from tax revenue by 2 092.6 million. lv. and in more revenue from non-tax revenue of 84,9 million. lv. 2. The total amount of expenditure for 2019 is 13 323,7 million. lv. and is greater than the costs of 2018 by 1,400,4 million. lv. The increase is allocated to current costs 869,2 million. lv. and capital expenditure 521.3 million lv. 3. The budgetary transfers-net relationship is 11,486,8 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. and received transfers of an amount of 18.5 million lv. The net budgetary relationship for 2019 increased by 404.7 million. lv. 4. For 2019, a contribution to the general budget of the European Union of an amount of 1 282.1 million is proposed. lv. This contribution is greater by 148.2 million. lv. from the 2018 contribution 5. The budget balance is proposed to be a deficit of 399.3 million. lv. and carrying out operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance of the same amount. The state budget deficit for 2019 is lower by 224.2 million. lv. from that year for 2018 Budget of the judiciary for 2019 The Supreme Judicial Council proposes for 2019 a total revenue, aid and donations of 116 million. BGN, total amount of the costs - 769,4 million BGN, or 178,3 million lv. More than the 2018 budget and the central budget budget's budget's budget's budget is 653,4 million. BGN, or 178,3 million lv. more than its 2018 budget The Council of Ministers proposes for 2019: - Total revenue, aid and donation of 116,0 million. BGN as much as the Supreme Judicial Council suggested. - Total cost of 704.3 million BGN, or more by 113,2 million. lv. versus 2018. The increase is given for current costs 101.7 million. lv. and capital expenditure 11,5 million lv. In the revenue and expenditures indicated by the Council of Ministers, the budgetary relationship with the central budget became 588.3 million. BGN, which is in excess of 113.2 million. lv. from the 2018 budgetary relationship. The 2018 reserve shall be maintained at the level of 2018. 600,000. lv. Budget of the National Assembly for 2019 The budget of the National Assembly for 2019 provides for revenue of 1.5 million. lv.; costs of 79,3 million lv. and budgetary relations with the central budget (transfers) of 77,8 million lv. The total cost of the current expenditure is 65,2 million. lv.; capital expenditure is 13.6 million. lv. and the emergency and unforeseen expenditure reserve is 0,5 million. lv. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held, where different opinions were presented. People's representative Rumen Gechev expressed support with regard to the more resources allocated in the social sphere and education. The representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria Doncho Barbalov stated principle support under the Bill in view of the planned substantial additional funds for municipal budgets approximately 500 million. lv. People's representative Dora Yankova expressed the opinion that there are good moments in the state budget for 2019 and especially when it comes to education. At the same time, she expressed concern about deepening interregional differences in demographic policy, lack of vision on the future of the energy efficiency programme, the freezing of reform in the water sector and the problem of expensive public services in small towns. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Vasil Velev expressed a positive opinion on the bill in principle, both in terms of the realistic medium-term programme and good management of the country's external debt and in terms of increased expenditure in the field of education. The representatives of the SNSB Mrs. Asya Goneva and KT Ms. Vanya Georgieva expressed their support under the bill, as well as their satisfaction with the new approach of the government on income policy. Under the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the Standing Committees of the Forty-fourth National Assembly at their meetings have examined, discussed and expressed their support under the Bill, with the exception of the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, which has not supported the Draft on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:? 4 Members of the National Assembly, 13 Members of the National Assembly, except for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:...... 13 MPs........................ 9 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u196	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, MPs! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its meeting on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director, Mrs. Asya Parvanova, Mrs. Stella Boyadjieva and Mrs. Elena Atanasova, Chief Experts; Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev from the Supreme Judicial Council and Ms. Margarita Radkova from the Financial Director of the Finance and Budget Directorate; Mrs. Theodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector, and Mrs. Krasimira Nikolova from the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The draft budget of the judiciary for 2019, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Mr. Magdalenchev, who pointed out that the budget of the judiciary for 2019, reflected in art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. With regard to the revenue section, the proposals under art. 2 in both projects coincide and the trend is to maintain values compared to 2018. The total revenue is estimated to be 116 million. BGN, of which 100 million lv. are planned to be revenue from judicial fees. The SJC project proposes that the total cost is 769,4 million. BGN, of which 723.6 million lv. are current costs. An increase in costs is proposed by 178.3 million. lv. for 2019 compared to the approved budget for 2018. The reasons of the Draft Budget of the Supreme Judicial Council are reflected that the estimated costs reflect the established budgets for 2018 and are necessary for the proper functioning of the judiciary, ensuring the swift administration and establishment of information systems for the implementation of electronic justice. It is noted that these funds are necessary to index wages and provide for clothing costs, training of candidates for junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators, introduction of electronic management and management of real estate. The Council of Ministers, taking into account the requests made by the Supreme Judicial Council to secure the payment of remuneration and social security to those employed in the judiciary, according to the legal requirements and budgetary capabilities of the budget, with a view to the fiscal policy to safeguard the stability of public finances, provides for an increase in expenditure compared to the budget adopted for 2018 by 113,2 million. lv. or a total of 704.3 million. lv. The funds planned include the cost of staffing the judiciary, as well as the costs of securing the introduction of e-government. The Project of the Supreme Judicial Council also sets a reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenses of 900 thousand. BGN, which is 300,000. lv. more than bets on the Council of Ministers project. In relation to the proposals made by the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 2 of the State Budget Bill for 2019, the Council of Ministers generally supports the text on para. 2, approving the proposed indicators. The Council of Ministers accepts the SJC's proposals for the provisions of para. 4 " 7" and does not support the proposal for editing of para. 8. The Council of Ministers states that its powers comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and are limited to the possibility of approving additional expenditure on the budget of the judiciary at the expense of the central budget when the balance of the state budget is not violated. Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that the proposed by the Council of Ministers Draft budget for the judiciary for 2019 is different from the proposed by the SJC project, but stressed that the proposed by the Council of Ministers will provide the necessary funds for the functioning of the judiciary. He added that the cost gap is due to the fact that the Council of Ministers' project foresees wage growth of 10 per cent and the SJC project foresees an increase of 17 per cent. Other reasons for the difference in budgets are planned by the Supreme Judicial Council additional remuneration of up to three basic salaries in the workload of the relevant authorities, up to 6 salaries for the specialised bodies respectively, while the Draft Council of Ministers provides for the additional remuneration to be up to one basic salary. The representative of the SJC summarized that despite the difference in expenditure, the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, after having been familiar with the estimates of the Council of Ministers, finds that the budget proposed by the Council of Ministers is balanced and should be supported. Ms. Tochkova expressed her support regarding the Inspector's budget to the Supreme Judicial Council proposed by the Council of Ministers. She pointed out that the budget of the judiciary proposed by the Council of Ministers, in the part of the Inspectorate, will provide the necessary funds for salary and compulsory insurance contributions, capital expenditure and technical security. She added that the Inspectorate is implementing a project under the program "Good management" for providing software and technical security and building administrative capacity, with the approved budget being 700 thousand. lv. Ms. Tsacheva pointed out that she was satisfied with the work in the course of the conciliation procedure for discussion of art. 2 of the Bill. It clarified that there was an increase in the 2019 budget compared to the 2018 budget by 113,2 million. lv. and thanked the Plenum of the SJC for the expressed support to the proposed by the Council of Ministers project of art. Two of the bill. Mr. Petrov added that the proposed budget by the Council of Ministers has main priorities that require a huge resource. This is an increase in income for the entire budget area of 10 per cent, an additional amount of 150 million. lv. in relation to the two bills, a bill for people with disabilities and a bill for personal assistance. An increase of the teachers' salaries by 20 percent is envisaged and the mechanism for determining the salaries has been adjusted. He summarized that the provided under art. 2 budget creates the necessary conditions for the implementation of constitutionally defined functions of the judiciary. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Justice, reflected in art. 13 of the bill, Mrs. Tsacheva pointed out that she supported it by stating that according to the income indicator the level of 2018 is maintained. She added that in the part of the expenditures there was an increase in the budget for 2019 by 43.2 million. BGN, which represents an increase of 18.7 per cent. The Minister of Justice has detailed the reasons for the additional costs provided and summarizes that they are intended for staff costs and for the implementation of electronic management. The estimated staff costs provide the additional 200 staff members at the Directorate General for Punishment and the General Directorate for Security and the increase of salary by 10 percent. During the discussion took part the MPs Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov, Yavor Bojankov, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova and Hamid Hamid. Mr. Popov, Mr. Bojankov and Mr. Zarkov said they will only support the draft budget of the judiciary, drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council and will not support the State Budget Bill for 2019 proposed by the Council of Ministers, focusing on underfinancing on certain items. On Mr. Popov's question Mr. Magdalinchev added that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council will be provided funds under the Operational Program "Good management" and in case of lack of funds the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council will take the necessary measures to secure his work. With regard to the proposed version for a new para. 8 in art. 2 of the Bill Mr. Magdalenchev added that after the introduction of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council with the estimates of the Council of Ministers and given the increase of the budget compared to the budget for 2018, its need has been dropped. Mr. Hamid's question regarding the building fund and the technical security of the courts Mr. Magdalenchev explained that the funds planned by the Council of Ministers will be able to secure the work of the courts and pointed out as a reason for the difficulties in these areas the delay in the absorption of capital expenditure funds in the previous years, which will be overcome. As regards the technical collateralisation of the courts, it has been stated that there is a coherent budget of 10 million. lv. with the State Agency "E-Management." Mr. Kirilov and Mrs. Atanasova indicated that they will support the 2019 Bill with the included Draft Judicial Budget with the opinion of the Council of Ministers, expressing satisfaction with the positive assessment of the Plenum of the SJC on the budget of the judiciary presented by the Council of Ministers for 2019. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: The proposed article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in - with 6 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers, including a draft budget of the judiciary, composed of the Supreme Judicial Council; - with 11 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers and without abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers, including a draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers. The proposed article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the - with 11 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers on October 29, 2018 - No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on October 29, 2018 - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u198	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kirchev. Here you go, Mr. Kirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: This Regulation on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018, together with its annexes. At its regular meeting, held on 31 October 2018, together with the Committee on Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. The meeting was attended by Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy; Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, and Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The main priorities of the state budget for 2019 are social policy, income policy, education and defence. The expected economic growth is 3.7 per cent, with gross domestic product growth forecast to be accelerated mainly through public consumption and investment and nominally to the level of 116 billion. lv. at the end of 2019. The average annual inflation in 2019 is expected to be 3 percent. The unemployment rate will permanently decrease and in 2019 it is expected to fall to 4.8 percent. A positive trend for a permanent reduction of Bulgaria's public debt against gross domestic product and an expected level of 22.5 per cent at the end of 2018 is forecast to decline to 19.1 per cent at the end of next year, or a nominal decrease of 2.1 billion. lv. The consolidated fiscal programme balance for 2019 is estimated at a deficit of 0.5 percent. In 2019, total revenue under the Consolidated fiscal programme is expected to reach 43,9 billion. BGN, which is 4.7 billion. lv. More than 2018 In 2019, 44,5 billion will be redistributed. BGN, or 38.2 per cent of gross domestic product, following the fiscal rule for the amount of public expenditure below 40 per cent of gross domestic product. Expenditure shall be targeted as a priority: - to ensure the financial framework of the draft Law on Persons with Disabilities lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the target heating aid, which has been doubled due to the increased prices of the energy carriers, for which an additional 40,4 million is provided. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - to introduce a new type of monthly aid for children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent, as amended by the Family Aid Act for children. The amount of aid for 2019 is BGN 115.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - to increase the minimum wage of BGN 510 At 560 leva. from 1 January 2019; - for an increase of 10 percent of the salaries and social contributions from 2019 to those employed in the budget sphere, and the pedagogical staff are provided for an increase of remuneration on average by 20 percent for 2019; - for defence expenditures - 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is 1.58 The funds for the three major investment projects of the army are also guaranteed. - nearly half a billion leva additional funds are provided for municipalities. According to the draft budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2019 Minister Karanikov pointed out that revenue was laid down, amounting to BGN 26090 000, which is equal to the planned revenue for 2018. The planned amount of expenditure for 2019, which will implement the policies - Sustainable economic development and competitiveness and the external cooperation, as well as the programme of and administered costs.. 24 700 000 BGN. Under the Project Budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2019 Minister Angelkova pointed out that revenues of BGN 9 823 800 were laid down. The planned expenditure for 2018 amounts to BGN 19 352 800. In 2018, the Ministry of Tourism will implement a policy on sustainable tourism development, which amounts to BGN 16 749 700. and is implemented with two programmes:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... During the discussion, the people representative Rumen Gechev from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) said that there are no policies in the state budget for 2019 and noted that according to BNB data foreign investments in 2018 have decreased three times, compared to 2017; the recommendations of the European Commission for structural reforms are not implemented and additional funding of unreformed sectors with unknown effect is envisaged. National Representative Hristo Prodanov asked Minister Angelkova why, against the background of announced revenues from concessions, fines and sanctions, the allocated revenues in the budget of the ministry are underestimated. In response Minister Angelkova pointed out that only 10% of these revenues are transferred to the account of the Ministry of Tourism. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:..... 11 Members of Parliament...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018, together with its annexes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u200	Thank you, Mr. Kirchev. The Energy Commission report will introduce us to the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev. I would like to remind you that according to art. 80, para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure, the reports of the accompanying committees could be presented in a summary. Please take this opportunity. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll present the report as a summary. ♪ I can't believe on a State Budget Bill At its regular meeting on 1 November 2018, the Energy Commission discussed the bill. The revenues provided for in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 amounted to 155 299.9 thousand. lv. at 173 324.2 thousand. lv. for 2018, allocated as follows: - Fund's revenue "Radio-active waste" and "Radio-active waste" and "Risk out of operation of nuclear facilities" "84 963.0 thousand." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Revenue for the implementation of the National Investment Plan - 28 194.9 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Revenues from concessions collected under the Law on concessions and the Law on Underground Capitals..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN, which is reduced by the amount of the taxes due "value added tax" and tax under the Corporate Income Tax Act by 15 million. 200,000. BGN, or planned for 2019 revenues from concessions, amount to 35 200,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Other revenue - revenue from state fees, revenue from fines, penalties and penalty The expenditures provided for in the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 of the Ministry of Energy amounted to 84 737,4 thousand. BGN, in the case of an established budget for 2018 98 673.3 thousand. BGN, with a reduction in costs for 2019 of 13,935.9 thousand. BGN, mainly due to a reduction in the costs of implementation of the National Investment Plan. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:........................... 12 Members of Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Energy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the State Budget Bill in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u202	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you go, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Chairman of the Board of the Agency of Road Infrastructure, Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities, experts from the two ministries, Mrs. Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and experts from the Association. On behalf of the importers, the draft was presented by Ms. Nadezhda Genova, who presented to the MPs information on the general framework of the budget, the forecasts of the three-year budget forecast and paid detailed attention to the forecasts of the draft in its part about the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities in general and in individual functions. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 provides for a total amount of relations between municipalities and the central budget of 3 745.8 million. BGN, of which total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 3 234 390.2 thousand. BGN, transfers to local activities including total matching subsidy 294 022.0 thousand BGN, and transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 38 228.1 thousand. BGN, target subsidy for capital expenditure 179 110.2 thousand lv. Budget policies with regard to municipalities are aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development, improving efficiency and improving the quality and scope of activities at local level. An increase in the size of the main budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget for 2019 is envisaged compared to 2018 by 481.7 million. BGN 10,0 million of the matching contribution. lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 3.0 million lv.; of the capital expenditure target subsidy - by 15,0 million lv. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova presented to the Commission the draft budget of the Ministry and information on the funds provided for in the project under the main policies, programmes and activities carried out by the Ministry. The Minister paid attention to the funds provided for in the Project for the implementation of the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and the National Building Control Directorate, pointing out the reasons why the respective areas are forecast to increase or decrease expected revenues. In conclusion, Minister Avramova summarized that the budget provided for the Ministry is balanced, giving policy opportunities in the relevant areas, but insufficient to meet expectations in certain activities. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressed by Mrs. Silvia Georgieva, proposals were made to increase transfers in certain activities. The reasons and the specific amount of additional funds required for municipalities are detailed in the minutes of the consultations on the bill signed between the Minister of Finance and the Association and in the opinion provided. An increase in funds for municipal roads has been proposed by increasing the total target subsidy for capital expenditure, increasing the total matching subsidy, additional resource for the poorest municipalities, for the social services delegated by the state, for municipal hospitals in the hard-to-reach areas and others. During the discussion the MPs raised a number of questions related to the different parameters of the budget to which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development responded. Attention was paid to the issues related to the possibilities for the realization of sites in the road infrastructure and the impact of the revenues from the introduction of the system, the energy efficiency programme and the renovation of residential buildings, as well as the proposals of municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities. Proposals were made between the two votes of the bill to seek additional mechanisms and opportunities to provide additional funds both for certain activities carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and for municipalities, taking into account the specific characteristics of the formation of the budgets of individual municipalities, with a view to ensuring the necessary financial resources for municipalities to operate independently next year. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government without......................................................................... 1 and 2, not to be adopted in the first vote; - with 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers on the draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under Art. 802-01-49. 1 and 2 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Following is a Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I strongly remind the reports to be presented in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law No 802-01-49 on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a regular meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft law on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2019 was presented by Emilia Kraleva For the purposes of programming budgeting and given the administrative functional distribution in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, three policies have been formulated to achieve greater accountability. Within these policies, eleven programmes have been allocated to systematize tasks and objectives before the diplomatic service. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 defines: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main parameters in the 2019 budget project in its part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are as follows: - The own revenues amount to BGN 59 789 000. - The costs are BGN 132 669 600. - The subsidy is 75 643 200 BGN, of which 2 762 600 BGN. for transfers between budgets and accounts for EU funds. The allocation of expenditure on policies and budgetary programmes shall be confirmed as follows: - Policy in the field of development of an effective diplomatic service 10 295 500 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Public Diplomacy Policy - BGN 853 200• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - policy in the field of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy - BGN 21 520 900 The maximum costs that can be borne in 2019 and the maximum cost obligations that can be incurred in 2019 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are respectively 105 805 300 and 105 755 300 BGN, shall be confirmed. Targeted current and capital transfers to abroad for official development aid and humanitarian aid totaling BGN 6 000 000, which cannot be spent for other purposes, and no more than 5% of these funds can be spent to administer the aid. In order to ensure the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the 2019 budget, additionally agreed and provided funds shall be as follows: - 2,375 300 leva. for an increase of 10% in salaries and social contributions from 2019, which will enable the individual basic monthly salaries to be increased on the basis of the post held and the evaluation of the results achieved and the increase of the minimum wage. - £2,800,000. provide additional funds for the long-term secondment of staff to diplomatic and consular missions. - BGN 1,401,800. implementing a decree opening a new diplomatic representation in Saudi Arabia, pursuant to PMS 168/09.08.2018 on maintenance and capital expenditure. - £12,100. on the provision of services between the Republic of Bulgaria and the NATO Agency for Communications and Information on the provision of communication and information services for the new NATO Headquarters. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 4 votes against, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote Draft No 802-01-49 on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u206	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Thank you for your creative approach to providing information. The report by the Defence Committee. Mr. General, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u207	♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 No 802-01-49 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2018. At its meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Defence Committee discussed the quoted bill. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Minister Anatoly Velichkov, Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Andrey Botsev, Permanent Secretary of Defence Anton Lastardzhiev and Director of Planning, Programming and Budget. A representative of the Ministry of Finance was the Head of the Department of State Expenditures "Iliana Vladova. In his exhibition, Deputy Minister Anatoly Velichkov noted that defence expenditures increased for a second year in a row. It is particularly important that, along with staff funds, those for maintenance and capital expenditure are also increasing, and with the provision of funds for investment projects, it is ensured that the modernization of the Armed Forces is developed. People's representatives Kolyo Milev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Milen Mihov, Simeon Simeonov, Valentin Radev, Slavcho Velkov and Konstantin Popov took part in the debates. After the discussion was concluded, 20 MPs took part in the vote. With 11 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 2 votes abstentions, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2018 [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u208	Thank you, General Popov. Tighter and more military. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u209	♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a regular meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. With regard to the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 by the Ministry of Interior, the report was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov. The draft budget of the Ministry of Interior provided a total of 1 514 790.2 thousand. BGN, which is 218 390.2 thousand. lv. above those established for the Ministry with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Mr. Tzipov also noted that the determined capital costs for 2019 amounted to 14 947.0 thousand. lv. The allocation of the expenditure of the draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2019 on policy areas and budgetary programmes is envisaged as follows: When presenting the draft budget of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the chairman of the Committee Evtim Kostadinov specified that total expenditures 3 791.0 thousand were provided. lv. in this current expenditure 3,711.0 thousand. BGN 2,655.0 thousand for staff lv. and capital expenditure 80 thousand. lv. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 provides for a total of 2 930.0 thousand. BGN 2,654.0 thousand lv. for running costs. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 on the activity of the State Agency "State Reserve and Wartime Stocks" provides for budget funds of 121 468.3 thousand. lv. including current expenditure 20 888.5 thousand. lv. The following debates were attended by the MPs Georgi Andreev, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov and Dimitar Stoyanov, who reported the increase of the budget for staff expenditure under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2019 as positive but disagreed with the funds for capital expenditure. People's representative Valentin Radev expressed his opinion in support of the bill and said the planned increase in salaries for the employees in the Ministry of Interior will also increase their motivation for work. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u210	Thank you, Mr. Nunev, for the tight and meaningful report. A report from the Commission on Agriculture and Food follows. Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Summary of: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 31 October 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The main parameters in the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry provided for in the revenue are 149,4 million. lv. The cost ceiling is close to 192,8 million. BGN, of which: for personnel BGN 7,8 million for capital expenditure lv. According to the State Fund's budget, the cost ceiling is around 371.2 million. BGN, of which: for subsidies and transfers to non-financial corporations For capital expenditure, BGN 16.6 million. lv. The common agricultural policy for direct payments provides for 1,554.4 million. lv. European funds. In order to finance market measures, the total budget is 135,4 million. lv. For rural development 1, 260,5 million are envisaged. BGN 1,029,9 million lv. European funds and 230,6 million lv. National co-financing. The tax reference rate for reduced excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production is maintained and 84 million are established for this purpose. lv. The tax relief under Article will also apply. 189b of the Corporate Income Tax Act. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Food: - without a vote, 8 votes against abstentions and 9 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. - with 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers on October 29, 2018 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under Art. 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on October 29, 2018. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u212	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Ademov, please submit the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. The budget has the task of redeploying 38.2% of the created by Bulgarian citizens and businesses. This represents, in nominal terms, about 44,5 billion. lv. Without changing tax policy and thanks to the government's efforts for stable economic growth, budget revenues have increased by more than 4.5 billion. lv. Minister Goranov is convinced that the strategy to move towards a balanced budget balance is correct. The increase in the minimum wage, and hence the cost of labor, is a factor in keeping more people in the country. The economic growth achieved helps increase incomes. Minister Goranov stressed that the commitments made to disabled people and their families were fulfilled, providing an additional 150 million. BGN, which will be distributed fairly according to the changes in the legislation in this area. Nearly 900 million more are the funds that go for social expenditures, mostly for pensions, but also for people with disabilities and for energy aid because of rising energy prices. The increase in pensions by 5.7% is expected to result from the Swiss rule. That is why a pension reform has been made to reduce early retirement and ensure long-term stability of the pension system and an increase in pensions. Raising pensions under the Swiss rule is important in order to increase incentives and ensure those currently working. In this sense, it is positive and a significant increase in the ceiling of pensions. The insurance policy and the insurance revenue for the period 2019 and 2021 in respect of social and health insurance contributions shall provide: - preserving the amounts and ratios of social security contributions for the public funds; - increase of the maximum insurance income for all insured persons - 3000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - increase the minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers from 350 BGN. At 560 leva. from the beginning of 2019; - maintaining minimum insurance income levels for the main economic activities and groups of professions; - maintaining the amount of the health contribution - preserving the amount of the social security contribution for the Teacher's Pension Fund "4.3 per cent." - no contributions shall be made to the Fund. The policy for the integration of people with disabilities is aimed at creating conditions and guarantees for equality, social integration and the exercise of rights, protection of people with disabilities and their families, as well as their integration into a working environment. The problems of people with disabilities are a wide-ranging problem of human rights and subject to legal regulation. Key performance indicators and target values for 2019 are the following: monthly supplements for social integration - 502 thousand total. Medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities (p. mes. No. persons) - 10 000; persons with disabilities and persons over 65 years of inability to self-service to whom a service for personal assistant, social assistant and household assistant (number of persons) is applied; integrated people with disabilities in the society by providing them with translators and escorts for visits to public, health and cultural institutions supposed to 36 500; persons with disabilities involved in rehabilitation and social integration activities 3600. In order to ensure the financial framework of the Draft Law on Disabilities in its adoption under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, additional 150.0 million are provided. lv. for the three-year period of the budget forecast. In relation to the government's commitments to adopt legislation for disabled people, the state budget for the medium-term budget forecast provides funds for projects and support programmes for disabled people, as follows: 71,5 million. lv. For 2019, 77,2 million lv. For 2020 and 82,6 million lv. for 2021, with the order to provide them will be settled with the draft Law on Personal Aid, to which the service relates, a personal assistant. Following the completion of the presentation of the State Budget for 2019 and the discussion held in which MPs and representatives of employers, trade unions and pensioners participated, a vote was held. With results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, with an importer the Minister's: no.... 8 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, with an importer the Council of Ministers: 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, 8 votes against the Council of Ministers, without the votes of abstention, The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u214	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Damyanova, please submit the Report to the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u215	The report is in summary, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its regular meeting on 31 November 2018, the Education and Science Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. The Law was presented by Krasimir Valchev in the Committee on Education. The cost increase in nominal value compared to 2018 is 450,5 million. lv. with a source of the national budget. The funds allocated to the system of pre-school and school education for 2019 increased by 422.1 million. lv. For 2019, the higher education funds that have been allocated increased by 27.9 million. lv. and their total amount reached 777.5 million. lv. Public funding expenditures in the science sector in the 2019 budget have increased to 529.1 million. BGN, or 0,5% of gross domestic product compared to 0.4% of gross domestic product for 2018. The following discussion included MPs Anelia Klisarova, Irena Anastasova, Stanislav Stanilov, as well as representatives of trade union and civil organizations in the field of education, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Council of Rectors. At the end of the discussion Minister Krasimir Valchev answered the questions, also stressing that for the first time in many years BAS received 40 million. lv. additionally, which represents almost 50% above its subsidy. On behalf of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, a proposal was made for the removal of paragraphs 1, 3 and 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill. The representatives of the National Sectoral Trade Union "High Education and Science" (SSC) and the National Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology (National Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology) were announced in support of these texts. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with results: 12 votes for the National Assembly, 8 votes for the Bulgarian Republic for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Mr. Dinev, you are welcome to present the Report of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to you as a summary: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting, held on 31 October 2018, examined and discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. Within this part of Budget 2019, which falls within the competence of the Commission, Mrs. Vanya Koleva presented the budget in the field of youth and sport policies. In her exhibition Mrs. Koleva pointed out that with the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 the Ministry of Youth and Sports set costs of 79 million. 718 thousand. BGN, which is almost 4 million. lv. more than the funds allocated for 2018 The allocation of the costs of meeting the objectives and activities in the field of sport for students and sport in the free time for 2019 amounts to 17 million. 534 thousand. lv. In 2019 they were financially secured by 52 million. 699 thousand. lv. sports development programmes for excellence, Olympic training and development of sports clubs and support activities for hosting international sports competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The allocation of expenditure for the implementation of the policy objectives in the field of bringing together sports facilities and facilities in a form corresponding to the current international standards for 2019 amounts to 3 million. 508 thousand. lv. In the area of policies for young people, the envisaged funds amount to 3 million. 305,000. lv. As regards children's policies, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy indicated that 21 million were laid down in the Ministry's 2019 budget. 594 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Nine hundred and ninety-six thousand. lv. for the budget of the State Agency for Child Protection, which grew by 8.3% compared to 2018. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 10 votes.... 8 votes against................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018 together with the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2020 [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u218	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Dear Dr. Daritkova, please introduce us to the Health Committee Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u219	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, who introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. In 2019, a level of expenditure is planned to ensure the financing of commitments and activities that are legally assigned to carry out through the budget of the Ministry of Health. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural $575,000. BGN 900, which represents an increase of 53 million. 331 thousand. £700. to the budget of the Office for 2018. These funds will finance activities, policies and programmes in the field of public health protection and control, activities under national health programmes carried out by the budgetary structures of the Ministry of Health, emergency aid and all other public health activities. The health policy will be aimed at achieving the priorities of the National Health Strategy? 2020 by implementing the Action Plan to improve the efficiency and satisfaction of citizens from the functioning of the sector. Programmes and measures are provided to support the implementation of the specific recommendation of the European Commission to Bulgaria to improve the efficiency of the costs of the health system, in particular through the revision of health activities and strengthening of outpatient medical care. During the three-year period it is envisaged to improve the functioning of emergency medical care in order to ensure better quality, sufficientness and timeliness in accordance with the concept of the development of the emergency medical system in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 " 2020" adopted by the Council of Ministers. Priority areas and activities will continue to be e-health, mother and child health, assisted reproduction, hospital care facilities as well as drug policy. The budget of the Ministry of Health will finance programmes and activities carried out by public health budgetary structures, emergency aid, stationary psychiatric assistance, medical and social care for children, treatment abroad and others. The planned financial resource will be spent to secure national programmes and central supplies for the prevention, control and treatment of socially significant diseases, to provide vaccines for compulsory immunizations and reimmunizations, as well as training for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system. The state's commitments regarding the financing of certain activities in hospital care institutions that remain state-owned..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Measures are also envisaged to address regional imbalances and ensure functional interaction between individual levels of medical assistance. In 2019, the Ministry of Health will provide a transfer to the National Health Insurance Fund to finance the costs of medicinal products. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act, activities for health uninsured persons, including intensive treatment, complex dispensary, observation in patients with psychiatric diseases and complex dispensary, observation in patients with skin-venerical diseases under art. 82, para. 1, t. 1a, 3a and 6b of the Health Act, for health-insecure women under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act, for the treatment of persons up to 18 years of age under the Health Act, for the treatment of persons older than 18 years of age under the Health Act and for the additional payment of the amount for a visit to a doctor/medical doctor and to medical institutions by persons who have exercised the right to a pension for internship and age. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the above results, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u220	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. With the report of the Committee on Environment and Water, Mr. Hristo Grudev will introduce us. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Waters was attended by: Neno Dimov Minister, Iva Talanova Director of Finance and Mihaela Gabrashkova Acting Executive Director of the Enterprise for Management of Environmental Activities (POSDOS); by the Ministry of Finance: Maria Ivanova Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditure and Nikolina Apostolova Senior Expert in the same Directorate, and Angel Angelov State Expert in the Directorate of National Fund. The Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water gave the floor to Minister Neno Dimov, who presented the part of the budget concerning environmental policies. He stressed that Budget 2019 is an ambitious budget covering the priorities and agreements of the government coalition, including a 25% increase in teachers' salaries and all other commitments. The Minister also pointed out some specific parameters for MOEW: expected revenues in 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, expenditures - 52,6 million BGN, including 10% increase in the average wage. Mr. Dimov explained that for the entire structure of the Ministry the average salary will increase from 950 BGN. of BGN 1305 and 60,5% of the expenditure part of the budget are for salaries of staff, 36,3% for maintenance, and 3,2% are related to capital expenditure. He noted that the Ministry will continue to finance policies in the field of environmental activities through the environmental management tool. He also noted that the two transfers made by MOEW to the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and the Institute of Oceanology remained 2.5 million. lv. The Minister also pointed to the additional 70 million targeted. lv. for 2019, the POSO for the recycling of closed waste depots in connection with the criminal procedure and expressed the opinion that a special hearing may be held in the Commission by the end of the year on the activities of the Operational Programme. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva thanked the Minister and gave the floor to Mrs. Maria Ivanova from the Ministry of Finance for presenting the macro framework of the budget. Mrs. Ivanova noted that the growth of gross domestic product is expected to be 3.7 per cent for 2019 and 3.5 per cent for 2020 and 2021, in the case of forecast inflation for 2019 and 2021, 3, 2.5 and 2 to 3 per cent respectively, and a tendency to reduce unemployment to 4% for 2021. She also said that the deficit is 0,5%, while in 2020 the budget remains balanced and will continue reforms in education, defence and social policy. Attitudes on the bill took the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Ivelina Vassileva. Ms. Ivelina Vasileva expressed the opinion of GERB's parliamentary group for full support of the proposed budget, noting that until now there has been no budget with such parameters. Also point out that experts in the MOEW structure, whose salaries are below the average for the public administration, will be able to receive an increase. She stressed that the items in the spending area are good and balanced, funding is provided for the reclamation of the old depots and growth of costs for past environmental damage. Following the end of the discussions and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 10 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and without abstentions, expressed the following opinion: The Commission supports the Draft Law and its indicators regarding the protection of the environment and water and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49 tabled by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u222	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Mr. Letifov, please give us a summary of the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 31 October 2018, a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 was discussed, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Nikola Kolev, Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission; Mr. Kiril Doychinov, Secretary-General of the State Agency The main macroeconomic framework of the State Budget Bill for 2019 was presented by Mrs. Maria Veselinova. The Minister of Transport briefed the MPs on the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with all the figures for revenue and expenditure. During the debates on the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the President of the Commission Mr. Halil Letifov expressed his opinion that the planned funds are insufficient for the implementation of the policies in the Transport sector. National Representative Georgi Svilenski raised questions concerning the obligations of the BDZ as well as the lack of funds for subsidies and compensations in rail and road transport. The upcoming concession of Sofia Airport was also the subject of his speech, the State-owned company's subsidy for transport construction and recovery and state-owned company "Communication construction and recovery" in relation to the public tasks entrusted to them, as well as the funds allocated to the Bulgarian Post Office for the compensation of the universal postal service. During the discussion spoke also the national representative Stanislav Ivanov, who expressed support for the policies in the field of transport, information technology and communications. The People's Representative Rosen Zhivkov took an attitude towards the Bill. Following a vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 9 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u224	Thank you, Mr President, for introducing us to the most important of the Commission's report. The next report belongs to the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 1 November 2018, the Culture and Media Officer at a regular meeting discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October. This Decision shall Representatives of: Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television, Council for Electronic Media, National Library St. St. Cyril and Methodius. The Union of the People's Chitalishtes. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mrs Amelia Gesheva presented the budget to the Ministry of Culture. The state budget for 2019 was presented by Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director of the Ministry of Finance Directorate. The budgets of Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Council for Electronic Media, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television were presented. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no........................................................................................................................ 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. National Representative Anton Kutev as Chairman of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints has submitted a Report. The text of the report will introduce us to Mrs. Atanasova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October This Decision shall At its regular meeting, held on 1 November 2018, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints examined the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October. This Decision shall On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 is accompanied by the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2019. In the submitted draft State Budget for 2019 in its part for non-profit legal entities: Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities: According to the State budget, 70 326, 3 million BGN of which: - under the central budget of 12 373,3 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - included in the budgets of the ministries and departments lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The municipalities - 73, 4 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. the year 2018; - Under the National Fund "26.7 million." lv. to finance projects with beneficiaries of non-profit legal entities under the European Funds; - State Fund................................................................................................. lv. or a 1.8 million reduction. lv. As compared to 2018 As a general rule, the amount of subsidies of non-profit legal entities: by central budget for 2019 is maintained compared to 2018, except for the increased subsidy of the Bulgarian Red Cross by 200 thousand. lv. and Bulgarian Institute for Standardization with 110 thousand. lv. The funds provided for shall be intended to support and define the implementation of the relevant activities and policies. In general, the amount of subsidies to non-profit legal entities: in the 2019 CB, the amount of subsidies should be maintained compared to 2018, focusing on the following changes: In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 49, para. 1 is included a new national representative organization for people with disabilities "Bulgarian Association for Recreation and Tourism." - Due to the lack of national representativeness, the Association of the National Association of people with acquired disabilities is not offered for funding. Outside the roll-calls referred to in art. 49 of the draft non-profit legal entities, in 2019 under the central budget on the basis of art. 4, para. 8 of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities for the Promotion and Financial Support of Public Projects of Non-Profit Legal Entities for the Implementation of Public Use is estimated to amount to 1 million. lv. Attitude under the State Budget Bill for 2019 took the popular representative Mr. Krum Zarkov. He said that after major changes in the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, there is again no strategy for the development of civil society, as well as in 2018. The civil society in Bulgaria must develop and need freedom in funding, Mr. Krum Zarkov emphasized. People's representative Anton Kutev expressed his opinion that the ratio should be changed in the funding of the nationally represented organisations and the funds to be spent after the adoption of the rules of the Civil Society Development Council. After the discussion, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 7 votes for the National Assembly, 8 votes against the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. The report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights follows. The report was signed by President Krasimir Velchev and his content will introduce us to Mr. Alexandrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, State-funded expert at the Department of Finance; Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; Mr. Baki Hyuseinov, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination; Mrs. Petya Parvanova, Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers; Mr. Emil Velinov, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Justice and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, who introduced the MPs to the general framework and priorities in Budget 2019 focused on the sectors of social policy, education, defence and income policy. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is provided a budget of 3 159 000 BGN, with 185 000 BGN. more than the 2018 budget Mrs. Maya Manolova noted that more funds are needed for the effective functioning of the institution. The activity has increased many times, with the number of complaints this year compared to previous years growing nearly twice. The focus is also on the need to provide a building for the institution's activities from the state building fund. Mrs. Maya Manolova said she did not support the State Budget Bill for 2019 in the part of "Ombudsman." For the Commission for Protection against Discrimination the estimated costs amount to BGN 2 784 000, with BGN 214 000. More than the 2018 budget, Mr. Baki Hüseyinov pointed out that the funds at stake are not sufficient for the effective functioning of the Commission as an independent body for prevention, control and protection against discrimination. Despite the measure at stake in income policy and the 10% increase in staff wage and remuneration funds, problems related to the turnover of qualified employees will not be overcome. With regard to the European Commission report against racism and intolerance, the Commission is obliged to open and manage four new regional offices, while regional representatives must be appointed to other offices. The granted subsidy for religions registered under the Religions Act amounts to BGN 5,500 000. With 500,000 leva. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Mr. Emil Velinov informed the MPs that with the allocated subsidy for 2019 churches will be built in Bucharest, South Africa, Hamburg, Edirne and Madrid. For the first time this year, funds of 40,000 BGN are provided. to promote interreligious dialogue, religious tolerance and prevention of discrimination. At the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, the budget for 2019 is planned at 8 963 800 BGN, with an increase of 463 800 BGN compared to 2018. The budget forecast for 2019 amounts to BGN 12 059 800. The forecast was developed on the basis of expanded reception capacity and forecast migration flow to the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms. Parvanova noted that the planned budget is insufficient to implement the Agency's activities in carrying out the state policy for granting international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria. For the effective implementation of the activity it is necessary to increase the budget of the Agency by BGN 1 525 200. Staff costs and capital expenditure. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Vasil Antonov and Pavel Shopov. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 9 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u230	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. We are about to hear the Commission report on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you go, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Commission on Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its regular meeting held on 31 October 2018 examined in the first vote a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018, together with the updated preliminary budget forecast for the period 2019 - 2021, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Draft Budget of the Judicial Authority for 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Finance Ms. Marusya Garbacheva, State Expert at the Department of State Expenditure. By the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: Mrs. Daniela Vasileva, Secretary General; and Mr. Tsvetomir Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of Finance and Property Management. Ms. Marusya Grbacheva provided a detailed report on the draft Law on the State Budget in its part on the budget of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. It reflects medium-term economic prospects and key assumptions, government fiscal objectives and priorities in the area of prevention and countering corruption, focusing on the main parameters of the budgetary framework for next year. A new point in the content of the forecast is the inclusion of more information in the presentation of spending policies with both fiscal measures and key indicators to measure the extent of their implementation. Mrs. Vasileva expressed her opinion that the Commission for Countering Corruption and For the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property should function seamlessly with the parameters thus scheduled. The draft budget of the Commission for 2019 estimated expenditure of BGN 20 453 000, including: Staff costs s 14 036 300 BGN; alimony 4 496 700 lv. and for capital expenditure intended for the acquisition of fixed assets and major repairs The increase in the cost of KKCONPI is due to the fact that new structures are infused there under the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and in the central budget are provided for separately BGN 2 000 000 000. for the major renovation of the building provided for the management of the Commission, as well as the means to secure the activities under the PKCONPI and for free travel of entitled persons under the relevant laws. The planned costs of KKCONPI are to finance the implementation of the functions assigned to it in countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, establishing a conflict of interest, imposing sanctions and other measures in the event of an established conflict of interest. During the debates Mr. Tsvetomir Ivanov was also heard, who expressed support for the presented budget in the support part of the committee. According to the bill the MPs Boris Yachev, Kristina Sidorova and Slavi Netsov were concerned. After the discussion and vote, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 5 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly that the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria should be adopted for 2019 by the National Assembly. No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018 together with the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2019.. 2021, representing reasons for the draft Law, taking into account the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Draft Budget of the judiciary for 2019.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u232	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. We are about to get acquainted with the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. [[Applause.]] Mr. Ivanov, come in. I ask for a summary of the otherwise very detailed and meaningful report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance. In view of the specific nature of its activities, KEVKEF examines the parameters of the project for the state budget for 2019 concerning the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget for 2019 as well as the planned revenue and expenditure under EU funds. Our country's main financial commitment to membership in the European Union is expressed in the national contribution to the EU budget. For 2019 it is envisaged to be 1 billion. The Commission $100,000. lv. This forecast was prepared on the basis of the Council Decision on the system of own resources of the EU (2014/335/EU, Euratom), which entered into force on 1 October 2016 and took effect retroactively from 1 January 2014. It is envisaged that the aggregate amount of revenue, aid and donations under EU funds for 2019 will be 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning These include EU funds accounts for EU funds of EU funds of EU funds of EU funds; National Fund and other EU funds and funds accounts under other international programmes and contracts to which the EU funds account regime applies. The estimated aggregate expenditure for 2019 under European programmes and projects amounts to 4 billion. 116 million. $800,000. or 3.5% of GDP, including: 2 billion The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. European The Commission $700,000. lv. national co-financing or 1.1% of GDP. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the European Union, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u234	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Lazarov, you are welcome to brief us on the Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u235	♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At a meeting held on 1 November 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Military Information Service, Mr. Angelo Prokopiev, Deputy Chairman of the State Intelligence Agency, Major General Dancho Djakov, Head of National Security Service, Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Information Security Commission, Mr. Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. The Managing Authorities of the Structures of the Sector "Secure" briefed the Commission on the Draft Law in its part concerning the policy in the field of "Secretary of National Security and the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria" for the period 2019 " 2021" and the developed budgetary programmes. They stressed that the increase in budgets compared to the previous year will be mainly spent to reduce the lack of staff and motivate employees, as well as to invest in technical provision and acquisition of new capabilities, which in turn ensure an adequate response to changes occurring in the nature of work. During the debates regarding the bill took the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Philip Popov and Dimitar Lazarov. Members of the Commission have expressed satisfaction with the work of the services. People's representatives from the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.................................................................................... After the discussion, the Commission with 5 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 3 votes against, and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u236	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. The report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Donchev. Mr. Donchev, you have the floor. There's one more besides the one we're about to hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 in its part on Policies towards Bulgarians Abroad. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister, Elena Sekerletova, Permanent Secretary, and Jasmina Ananieva, Director of the Department of Education and Science The draft budget of the Ministry of Culture was presented by Deputy Minister Amelia Gesheva. It stated that approximately 194 million were at stake in the part concerning the "Culture' function. lv. For 2019, of which 38 million lv. are for schools, increased and the support that the Ministry of Culture traditionally provides during national international festivals and events, providing 500 thousand. lv. The National Fund is also increased, with the estimated increases of one million five hundred thousand, or the growth is approximately 100% compared to the budget of the previous year 2018. An increase in the budget in the sectors of the Office of Information Service is also envisaged where it is planned to be provided. Two million. lv. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by Deputy Minister Georg Georgiev, who announced that the expenditure ceiling for 2019 was increased by 6 million. 699 thousand. 200 BGN, which is 132 M. 669 thousand. 200 leva. The Deputy Minister pointed out the areas and policies on which it will focus in 2019. These are: 295 thousand. 500 BGN, with two programs to be implemented in it: Administration and provision of the diplomatic service and the management of foreign-border representations and support of Bulgarian citizens abroad. In the field of public administration policy, 853 thousand were provided. 200 leva. with the following two programmes: for public activities and for cultural diplomacy. In the third direction: "Politicals in the field of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy" are envisaged 21 million. $520,000. lv. The project budget for 2019 by the Ministry of Education and Science was presented by Mrs. Vanya Balcheva. She explained that for the implementation of policies for Bulgarians abroad from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science 13 million are planned. 336 thousand. 900 BGN, as the largest feather this year is for the Bulgarian state and Sunday schools abroad - 11 million. 336 thousand. £900. Funds are also planned for the secondment of lecturers to the Order of the Council of Ministers No 103 in Bulgarian language, literature, history and geography to provide literature for lecturers in foreign secondary schools, as well as for their qualifications. National Representative Georgi Yordanov asked Mrs. Balcheva what is the number of Sunday schools abroad and is the number of schools expected to increase. In response to the question asked, Mrs. Balcheva announced that a total of 361 schools had started last year. Of them under PMS. 207, and beneficiaries under the national programme.. 154. The increase is 33. The draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad for 2019 was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, Chief Expert at the Directorate of State Expenditure, at the request of the President of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad Mr. Andon Donchev. Mr. Tanev informed the MPs that the draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad amounts to a total of 994 thousand. lv. During the discussion the President of the Commission and the MPs discussed the possibility of providing funds under the Programme for support of Bulgarian organizations and media abroad. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 6 votes for........................................................................................................... and 10 famines..................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 9 votes...................................... and 1 vote.......................................................................................... and 1 vote.......................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October This appropriation is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u238	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Dear MPs, it remains for us to listen to the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling on the bill. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you are, Mrs. Gusheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. At its regular meeting on 31 October 2018, the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling in cooperation with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism discussed and voted on a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 802 01 49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The draft was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, who introduced the members of the Commission to the general framework and priorities in Budget 2019, focused on measures related to continuing reforms in the sectors of education, social policy, health care, raising incomes, defence and security and absorption of funds from the European funds. The main objectives of tax policy during the period are improving the collection of revenue, tackling the shady economy and reducing the administrative burden and costs for business and citizens, which corresponds to the recommendation given by the Council of the European Union to Bulgaria. Tools for achieving the objectives set are the implementation of legislative changes and administrative measures to limit tax fraud, prevent tax evasion and evasion, through enhanced interaction between institutions and exchange of information on a national and international scale. In order to increase budgetary revenue and lighten the shadow economy, amendments have been made to tax laws to improve control over supply and movement of liquid fuels, optimize control activity and improve excise collection, refine administrative penal provisions, in order to prevent and determine penalties, in accordance with the gravity of the infringement, limit the possibilities for tax evasion in respect of registration/de-registered for VAT purposes, improve the effectiveness of third party liability provisions for outstanding tax obligations and social security contributions of obliged legal persons. The interaction between the Customs Agency and the NRA is deepened in order to strengthen control over the movement of risk goods across the Bulgarian borders, including through bilaterally initiated updates of the list of risk goods in the module. The focus was placed on the funds invested in Project Budget 2019 for policy in the field of effective collection of all state revenues amounting to 100 million. Seven hundred and 100 leva. And 45 million. 154,000. £600. for the protection of society and the economy against financial fraud, the smuggling of goods, money laundering and terrorist financing. The funds provided for shall be aimed at ensuring conditions for the functioning of administrations with a view to carrying out the activities assigned to them and tasks related to the conduct of the country's internal and foreign policy in all their aspects. The functioning of the sustainable system is ensured to achieve maximum efficiency in tax collection and insurance contributions, reduce corruption, improve the quality of administrative services, improve customs control, fight against customs and currency violations, smuggling and others. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Stefan Burgeev, Adlen Shevked, Dora Hristova and Emil Dimitrov. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 1 voice for................................................................................................................................. and 12 votes.......................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 11 votes..... 7 votes against................................................................................................................... As a result of the vote, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes to the National Assembly: 1. The draft State Budget Act for 2019 shall not be adopted in the first vote, including a draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 2. To adopt in the first vote the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1, Art. 1. 2, No 802-01-49, submitted on 29 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-06.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Gusheva. This was the last report submitted by the parliamentary committees on the occasion of the first reading of the draft budget for 2019. We will continue our work tomorrow at a regular meeting at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
