ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, from the Central Election Commission, we have sent a proposal of Decision No 4897-NS of 3 October 2017 to announce a elected MP: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 4897-NS of 3 October 2017 on the announcement of Elena Stefanova Axieva as MP from the Sixteenth electoral region of Plovdiv By letter No 026-729-09-NC of 2017, the CEC received a decision of the National Assembly of 29 September 2017, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Nina Pejcheva Mitkova as MP from the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, erected from the list of the Party of Volya in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Elena Stefanova Axieva, with the respective UNN, from the list of the Party of Volya. Please, the Quaestors, invite the new MP for an oath. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Mrs. Axieva, come to the stands and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Loud applause and lines. People's representative Veselin Mareshki offers a bouquet to the new MP Elena Aksieva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u3	I'll read you two messages. On 4 April 2018, a General draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act was submitted and distributed to the MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, be quiet! The project was adopted on the first vote on 4 April 2018. The project was drawn up by the Energy Commission on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 4 April 2018, a report of the Energy Committee was received and distributed to the MPs... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, this is the third time I've made a remark! Report of the Energy Commission on the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the conduct of lots, pursuant to § 41 of the According to the rules of procedure adopted, the termination of the term of office of the dropouts on the basis of the lots held will take place by means of an act of the National Assembly and a decision to elect new members. Proposals for the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be made by Members of the National Assembly or by Parliamentary Groups in accordance with the lots held. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Energy Commission through the President of the National Assembly until 17 April 2018. New requests for the period from 30 March 2018 to 4 April 2018 from: - MP Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs at Ekaterina Zaharievka, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the compensation of Thracian refugees. The reply should be made in plenary on 27 April 2018; - Evgenia Angelova to Nikolay Nankov "Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works," concerning the Trans-Caspian Transport Corridor. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 30 April 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova Gusheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva, Kristina Siderova and Nadya Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from MP Tasco Ermenkov. Before we begin the debates there is a declaration on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In just a few days, Orthodox Christians will welcome their brightest holiday the Resurrection of Christ. The celebration that has given us faith and hope for 2000 years. In the difficult and sad days of the Passion Week we remember the sacrifice of our God who was crucified to save us. These are the days of reckoning and humility, these are the days that every Christian experiences in anticipation of the Resurrection. In Bulgarian history, Orthodox Christianity plays a fundamental role in the creation, preservation and resurrection of the Bulgarian statehood of baptism, performed by the Holy King Boris the Baptist, in the Middle Ages, when the foundations of the monolith Bulgarian cultural community were laid, during the five centuries Ottoman rule, during which Christianity proved to be the only hope for self-preservation of the Bulgarian spirit, until the Revival and struggles for church independence, which formed and returned to the map of Europe the Bulgarian nation and statehood. Through Christian religion we received and had the opportunity to donate our writing and culture to a number of Slavic peoples. Thanks to the baptism and subsequent Christian enlightenment, the Bulgarian people built their identity, which during the period of trials kept its spirit. We should not forget that our religion and cultural belonging to Christendom were preserved with the efforts and immeasurable sacrifices of tens of generations in different historical ages. This fact obliges us to keep this heritage, to honor it not only through rituals and not only during holidays. For Bulgaria, Christianity is more than a religion, it is a foundation of the Bulgarian national identity, without which the Bulgarian society would lose meaning and orientation of its existence. Because Orthodox Christianity is the only thread that connects us to Holy King Boris the Baptist, and his son Simeon the Great, to the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and their disciples, to the activists of national revival and the wrestlers for church independence. If we lose this thread, we lose everything, especially ourselves! This year's Passion Week coincides with a founding date in Bulgarian history related to the Day of the Resurrection. On 3 April 1860 during the Resurrection of the Holy Mass in the Church of St. In Constantinople, the Bulgarian Bishop Ilarion Makariopolski, instead of speaking the name of the Royal Patriarch Cyril VII, announces to the crowd: "Remembrances, Lord, every Episcopateate of Orthodox! " According to the church canons, the bishop's refusal to mention the name of the Constantinople Patriarch means that he rejects his authority. The words of Ilarion Makariopolski were greeted with joy by those 5800 laymen who were in the church and in her court, and a year later he and those who supported him - Avksentiy Veleshki and Paisiy Plovdiv, who paid for their courage with a three-year banishment from the Constantinople Patriarchate. With this act, however, Ilarion Makariopolski, the bishops who supported him and those 5800 lay the beginning of the struggle for church independence of the Bulgarians, which ended with success ten years later. Then, in 1870, on the map of the Bulgarian Exarchy appears the modern Bulgarian nation, which in 1878 will give rise to the new Bulgarian statehood, whose spirit will always carry within itself and the words of Deacon Ignatius, who says: "In Bulgaria all peoples will live under some clean and holy laws for both the Turk and the Jew, whatever they are, for all the same will be. Dear Members of the National Assembly, let us remember the Christian virtues of family values, love for neighbor, mercy and humility before the Day of Resurrection! Let us not only in these days try to help those suffering, regardless of their religion and ethnicity! Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before the Day of Resurrection, let us remember the Christian virtues of family values, love for neighbor, mercy, and humility! Let us not only in these days try to help those suffering regardless of their religion and ethnicity! Let the upcoming celebration become an occasion for remembering that our nation and statehood rose on Easter, among the icons of the church of St. Stephens in Constantinople, and this obliges us even more to guard that spirit of persistent aspiration for freedom and dignity, which made possible the appearance of the new Bulgarian statehood! Happy holidays and may God be with us! [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u5	Mrs. Zaharieva, thank you for the nice words. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 3, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the term for the United Energy Bill with importers Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs to be shortened to four days. I am making it clear that the four-day deadline will actually expire on 18 April 2018, which means that from today until the deadline of 18 April, including, we have 14 days, that is, two weeks. In fact, with the reduction due to the parliamentary vacation, we are extending the deadline to two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. There's a counterproposal. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in the practice of the National Assembly, since it was created, bills that are adopted before the holidays and shortening the period during the holidays raise doubts about lobbying interests, especially when it is in the economic sphere. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] We change the overall philosophy, Mr. Dobrev, no matter how much you say: I don't believe that during the Easter vacation, during the visit and the painting of eggs, you will be working on the Bill. Please, if possible, extend this period by one week after vacation. However, let us, at least this time, make a working bill, not a bill, which is then three days after its adoption, like the Corruption Act, to wonder in what way to change the main members. Therefore, I suggest: let us extend the period between first and second readings by one week, so that you can assimilate and realize that what you adopted yesterday, especially Iskren Veselinov's Bill, is absolutely not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. I put to the vote Mr. Delyan Dobrev's proposal to shorten the deadline. Vote 172 MPs: 107 against 11, abstention 54. The motion is accepted. Mr. Antonov, please come for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a few days, Orthodox Christians all over the world will greet each other with........Crisce!......................... we will think about the essence of human existence and what makes us human. As lawmakers and rulers, we are chosen to take care of people, and we often forget the essentials of ordinary life and the course that follows. We ignore human emotions and feelings... something more, as if we have immunity against them. Now we're in one of the most important days of the year where we can take care of our soul. These are the days of the Passion Week that remind of the last of Christ's life path on earth. It is right to read the messages again, answering the questions: why did He drive the merchants out of the temple, who instead of a house of prayer, turned it into a marketplace, and do we find an analogy with the temple that we are in? Why did Judah sell his Master for 30 pieces of silver, and at the Last Supper he committed betrayal, by kissing him to the soldiers? Why did Christ bear the torture and pain he received from us, the people, as a reward for his mission to help and make this world better? Do we often, with our work, not cause suffering and pain to humans through the consequences of our thoughtless and often thoughtful actions? We certainly haven't learned our lesson. Betrayal and sale are part of our existence. It's like we've gotten used to them and passed them lightly. Today, the resurrection of life and the Bible is not just after death, it is hope that after all evil comes good, that after all suffering there is joy, that everyone repents, receives forgiveness and a second chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u11	Colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u12	That's what Orthodox values teach us. Let us, in our weekdays, address them more often and follow them. Today we live in a troubled world. World and regional conflicts follow one another and are too close to us. And we consciously or not, through action or inaction, are part and product of them. Dear colleagues, this year the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy is turning 25 years old. The Assembly calendar provides for several significant celebrations. One is now in the days between Catholic and Orthodox Easter, in the capital of Lebanon, with the participation of representatives from 70 countries. It is an honor for Bulgaria that the first festive event dedicated to the anniversary took place a week ago in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, for the first time Bulgarian MPs do not participate in this celebration in Lebanon these days. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the quest for revival and creation of better opportunities for all people is open to us who lead the people to resurrect human beings in our souls. Then our work will be more beneficial to society and peace between men. Happy Easter Holidays for everyone! Health and prosperity, more goodness and faith in our days! Congratulations on the resurrection of Christ! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov, and thank you for your wishes. Colleagues, we're moving on to: REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES TASKE ERMENKOV, CRISTINIA SODOROV, LOBOMIR BONEV AND STALK ADVANTAGE TO THE MINISTER OF ENERGY TEMENUQUES ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTRY OF ENERGY IN THE AREA OF TOPLOSCATION. At the questioning of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov is responsible for the meeting on 30 March 2018, Friday. At the same meeting, 58 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the MPs in electronic form on 30 March 2018, on Friday. Project for a decision to be voted on: "Project for a Decision tabled by 58 MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria." Who in the parliamentary group will present it? You have 10 minutes to present the proposal for a debate and the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The largest power to protect consumers of heating companies has the sectoral regulator Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It controls the fulfilment of the terms of licences, amendments and validation of the general conditions and rules for working with customers, validates the prices of heat, rule on consumer complaints. However, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission does not control consumer rights. The Commission for Consumer Protection has more limited powers in the sector..................................................................................................... This is because of the lack of contracts of many consumers with the heating companies, although there are many users in places with individual contracts. However, in many cases, the Commission's powers are limited to the submission of collective claims under the general terms and conditions of those companies. The complaints received by consumers of heat are, in almost all cases, forwarded by the Commission for Consumer Protection to the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory or to the Ministry of Energy. The Commission for Protection of Competition is of the opinion that, in view of consumer problems and their effective resolution, the legislator and the public authorities concerned and non-governmental organisations must analyse the regulations governing consumer rights in order to examine the problem areas and adopt regulatory changes that would make this institutional framework more functional and effective. The transfer of responsibility and the limited responsibilities of the Commission for Consumer Protection have led to this, I will refer to the example in Pernik that although, at the beginning of the verification, Deputy Minister Krasimir Parvanov of the Ministry of Energy announced that the accounts of the subscribers of Although they were cold and despite the promise of the Deputy Minister, the residents of the town, who did not have a contract with the company, had to pay almost the entire amount of their bills, and the bills themselves were corrected by only two levs. For two months, from January 1st to February 27th, the Pernik Topplofication has 17 accidents, shows the Commission's energy and water regulation check. One of the biggest accidents left nearly 30,000. people without heating for two weeks, and the rest were removed within 48 hours. We can see for ourselves how many days there are without heat. However, consumer protection is limited and there is no one to satisfy their demands. It is known that in the country investment in the thermal network, if any, is minimal, and repairs are made in pieces. The main repair of the network has not been done in years.. Maybe nearly 40, as we found out in your questioning. Therefore, the problems, despite the hundreds of publications in national and local media, despite the years of discontent of consumers of heating, will continue to deepen. People will continue to freeze if the Ministry does not take measures and force the owners of the companies to invest in the networks. In relation to everything that has been said so far, we propose to the National Assembly within two months from the date of this Decision that the Ministry of Energy should provide information on the technical condition and operational suitability of the energy outlets in the country in the area of heat supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Colleagues, I will read you the time available to the parliamentary groups. In the time of the groups, the lines and procedural questions shall be included, except those relating to the manner in which the sitting is conducted. In the time of the groups do not enter the duplicates and the time for personal explanations. Political party GERB has 19 minutes, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. You're ready, I'm watching.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u16	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I brought this folder, but don't be afraid of the Great Thursday I won't read you everything. This is only the report which the Commission for Protection of Competition prepared in February regarding the heat supply in Bulgaria s a very interesting report, and I advise anyone who deals with energy or is interested in this topic to read it. There are references inside, there are solutions. Some of the things that I am about to say are related precisely to this report, because what we want to discuss today is a little wider than just the technical state of the heat supply system and the investments that are being made in it. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, speaking of heat supplies, first of all, we need to base ourselves on two basic principles. The first principle, as always, must be to protect the public interest through as much transparency as possible in the process of centralised heat supply, especially in those sections that are called measurement, distribution, trade relations and the responsibilities of the various participants in the process. The second thing we should also bear in mind is that centralized heat supply is non-alternative, as the most efficient and ecologically covering all European standards a way of mass urban heat supply. Among other things, in all our actions, we must also comply with that limit which only experts in the functioning of the system, whose crossing would lead to collapse and irreversible public damage. There is hardly one person in this Chamber who understands little about energy and he is not convinced that the heating companies in Bulgaria are an element of the entire energy security system of the state and that if we, with our policy, do not bring things to the possibility of operating in the interests of all those involved in this activity, starting with the enterprises, go through those who are engaged in heat supply, and most importantly That's a problem, and he's standing right in front of us. Given the discontent of many consumers, we are obliged to find those solutions to this problem, which will ensure the further development of the sector. I'm not gonna stop here on what heat supply is. I think every smart guy knows what it's all about. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the service is a hot service which is not written in our legislation and which is actually the main reason why we should have such discontent is that it is a collective service. It can't be another, it can't be individual. There can be no possibility that the heat supply service could be individual. It is planned in the neighbourhoods and in urban areas as collective and in any case must also be solidarity as a use. It is this solidarity that creates the main problems in the heating system and some nonsense that are related to the distribution and reporting of energy that lead to consumers' distrust of the quality and quantity of what they have received, respectively, of the amount of what they pay. There are many problems that are related to the heating companies, both as investments and as emissions that they need to pay, and as a price that they need to form in order to enable them, on the one hand, to maintain their network and installations in the necessary technical suitability, but on the other hand, to comply with the price of the final product. There are problems with so-called thermal accountants who, on the one hand, have contracts with end-users, but end-users do not have the opportunity to make claims to the heat companies because this is a result. In the law, we have given the possibility to heat companies to play the role of thermal accountants, but they do not have this activity in their licences. Among other things, there is a danger of turning this into a monopoly situation and of having problems with the Commission for Protection of Competition. All the problems that exist in front of the system, and problems that we have to solve. In addition to what I have said, it must be borne in mind that because of its nature, the product is a non-market commodity and therefore the parameters in the contracts between a supplier and a customer, price, quality, parameters and quantity are validated by an independent regulator, that is to say, very few options for further negotiation between a supplier and a consumer of things that are outside the so-called contract under public general conditions. It is for this reason that everything I say requires a wider discussion of the problems. I don't think we're gonna make any decisions today. I would just like to remind you that in 2013 and 2014, the Energy Commission, at that time under Mr. Ramadan Atalay's presidency, he is here, I suppose he can relate to the matter, held a lot of meetings dedicated to these problems, while with wide participation of consumers, of heating companies, at all to all who are interested in this sector. Unfortunately, then we didn't have time to change the legislation. In this regard, I, as Vice-President of the Energy Commission, will also ask the President of the Commission to set up a working group with the participation of all stakeholders: the Association of Heat Supply Companies, Energy Accountants, representatives of the Ministry of Energy, representatives of consumer organisations and MPs, of course, to achieve that consensus, which will allow us to develop heat supply in line with consumer interests, but I stress................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Today, however, it is obvious that, in order to get to this group, we need technically correct heating companies. I therefore ask you to support our decision that the Ministry of Energy should report to us on the technical state of companies, because we are in danger of making wonderful laws in the working group, of reaching consensus, but of not having technically correct companies to implement and comply with this legislation. That will be my request. Madam President, I would like to make an editorial amendment to the decision that we have proposed because, speaking yesterday after the parliamentary session with the Minister of Energy, we have come to the conclusion that it is good that the period in which we should be presented with our decision the information about the technical condition is in line with the beginning of the heating period. I propose the following editorial change: in the text, the words "two months from the date of this Decision" shall be deleted from the words "1 October 2018" in their place. The decision sounds like this: "The Minister of Energy will present to the National Assembly information on the technical condition, the suitability of the energy sites in the country in the field of heat supply by 1 October 2018. Colleagues, this is an important matter. True, it concerns not all Bulgarians, but much of them, and it concerns everyone, given the importance of the heating companies for the security of the entire energy system of the state. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today's topic shows that in the field of energy in the National Assembly, things are overparty, rather expert and we are looking for a solution to the problems that have accumulated for years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u19	Which is very good, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u20	Of course, thank you for the deadline Mr. Ermenkov proposed because he understood the arguments. I think it's a better option. The Minister will be more prepared once the emergency repairs are carried out, the investment, respectively, so that there can be a more complete picture of the report he will propose to us. So what's the actual situation? We have 12 heat companies, 11 of which are private, one is municipal. All of them as infrastructure and as operating machines are de facto 40 that and more years of internship. They need a lot of investment in order to be supported. If these companies are left to fail and fail to function, there will be quite dramatic events in the cities in which they operate. Firstly, critical infrastructure power grids will not last, because they are also quite a year old, on this top they are not estimated for this consumption that would have come, provided that they will not work. Worse still, as we monitor the clean air in cities and see that we are not in the first places in air cleanness, especially in winter months, then this air will seem much cleaner than in this case, when households will start burning solid fuels so that they can compensate for the heat that will not be delivered centrally. Only one of the companies, unfortunately, works on gas. Everyone else is working on solid fuels. I know that attempts are being made in Sliven, in Ruse, where to try to burn and organically manufactured stones, straw and so on, so that, first of all, it becomes the cost-effective service that is being delivered, and, second of all, so that econorms can be fulfilled. We see the problem that has come up with the requirements for large combustion plants, which are imposed as good practices in Europe and will continue to be imposed. This puts enormous pressure on all companies, firstly, as suppliers of the service, heat, and, secondly, as part of the electricity supplied throughout the country. They are also balancing capacities, can support peak energy and balance the different fluctuations that are generated both from consumption and from different renewable sources. In other words, we need a comprehensive strategy for these companies in order not to allow us to go back decades and not be able to react to the processes that will arise if these companies do not work. A comprehensive strategy must because of the fact that we have to take care of the ecological purity of the air that our children breathe. It is a good solution to see what repair and investment actions will be done at the end of this period before the heating start, but only this will not be enough. You are absolutely right, Mr. Ermenkov, that it is not bad to have a working group, I know that there is such a working group in the Ministry of Energy in connection with the Energy Act, but I think that the National Assembly will not have this capacity. First, let the Ministry of Energy with the capacity at its disposal give the basis, and from that point forward, let us start working on the proposals so that we can enrich them, see them from different perspectives. Apart from the Energy Act, I think that this strategy should be bet on Bulgaria's Energy Strategy, because this is an important part of this energy strategy. Here I have a reference on the basis of the fact that we know that the process is controlled by two institutions - the heat supply companies: one is the KEWRC from a licensing point of view, the other is the Ministry of Energy. Minister Petkova, I suppose he will focus more on this issue. However, it is impressive that, since 2007, in 2299 complaints in 2017, the complaints are 451, which means that there is such control, but we need to find a way for them to enter into the good practices of the European Union. We have given the opportunity, through cogeneration and high-efficiency production, to be able to compensate for the heat supply service by producing electricity and to pay it at higher prices. However, we must also encourage these companies to be able to invest in new technologies, in greater efficiency, so that they start to compensate for all the infrastructure and replace it so that they can reduce the emergency. In fact, this is what we need to bet for years to come and we need to be calm that at some point we will not be looking for emergency options to save both energy infrastructure and heat supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Replies to Mr. Nikolov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you've spent more time in the Chamber since yesterday than in the Ministry. I hope that both your presence and all that is being discussed today will benefit the public interest. That is why colleagues are asking the question, and we are debating now. Dear colleagues, if we follow all that is written in the Law, in Chapter "Topplofication" and the obligation of the Minister in the Law, we will find that there is a system and this system, if it is respected, should have eliminated certain gaps that happened this winter. But since they have not been eliminated, there is also a problem we MPs today are debating this problem, which has been going on perhaps since the heating companies have been created their design, their exploitation. Members of the National Assembly are doing everything possible in the chain to create those conditions for which the recipient of the service does not feel the possibility that someone on his back is receiving more money than he has delivered. That's the problem. What do we do with manufacturing plants? That's where we introduced the co-generations. They get premiums for everything they produce for high-efficiency production. At the same time, it is clear to us all that they do not receive those funds that are necessary for innovation. In the same way, the blood system is the transport system, and euro funds for the supply of steam to the relevant distribution stations. Pipes have been replaced. A lot of money has been invested in Sofia and has been replaced, I think, over 12,000 stations. Colleagues, however, the discontent of society still exists. We arrive at that point when years ago, not to advertise myself, thank you for being quoted by this tribune, I doubt when they begin to praise us, but we then conducted a thorough investigation in Chapter "Toplofication," Madam Minister. We've entered subscriber stations. What was found? If, on the basis of these audits, we do not change the Law, supply and reporting, just as those non-governmental organizations have introduced a bill to Parliament... is standing somewhere and we cannot accept it, this problem will always be there. What is it? The heat produced must reach the subscriber station. It reaches the subscriber station so far we are looking for responsibility for the technical support, for the operation, for everything of the heating company. From there, however, colleagues, that energy that was delivered to the subscriber station that entered the building, the return of the amount of heat used and the delta, the difference in this thing at 100 units, 70 units used the subscribers, 30 units were a loss. Or 30 units of the building is heated. Let's say a building installation or pipes, whatever. The public must be aware that these 100 units of energy delivered to the subscriber station must be paid. There's nothing else we can decide with this law. This thing if we don't solve it, no matter how many reports you give us, no matter how many studies we do... I hear my colleague from Pernik that a week or two was cold, that they were waiting for a discount and only got 2 leva. from the discount. It's all a fact, colleagues. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has an obligation every autumn to call on all heating and generating capacities to report to the National Assembly on the preparation for the autumn-winter season, what is their readiness. Do we get reports like this? We get it on paper. Was there ever a case where a heat pump or an electrical supply company told us that it was finished and there were no emergency situations? There was. Back to the enchanted circle again. Why is there one? Because they didn't get paid enough money to make the new investments so there wouldn't be any accidents and deliveries. Including under the pressure of GERB and BSP, when we divided the supply of heat to be different from the one that reports, so there is no doubt that the supplier of heat manipulates the system in any way, you have returned and the heat reporting has the opportunity and the heat efficiency company to do so. What have we accomplished, colleagues? An additional doubt. Madam Minister, I don't know what report you will give us here today, but my request is My request to all who use the service is to pay for it because payment of the service provides them with security for the comfort they receive. I don't want to question it, but energy efficiency in cities with heating companies is much better developed than in those settlements where we don't have central heating. The cities where there is central heating received from the government, from the state up to 2 billion. BGN to make energy efficiency. The effect of it will someday be taken back into account by this tribune. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Madam President. I won't abuse you. I think the subject is significant, public interest, but today we will hardly find a way out of this situation. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Replies to the statement of the MP Ramadan Atali? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Madam Minister, please come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for putting this extremely important topic on the agenda and making this extremely important and meaningful debate. Indeed, the topic of heat supply with the activities of the heating companies is extremely important because it concerns a large part of the Bulgarian consumers, a large part of the Bulgarian society. It's a very timely subject. And in the answer I had the opportunity to give last week, I pointed out that out of 12 heating companies working on the territory of the country, 11 are entirely private, only one is owned by a municipality. All these companies themselves assess what their investment programme should be so that they can carry out the necessary investments which are undoubtedly returned as quality of the service. For information only, I would like to point out that, for the period from 2013 to 2017, under the National Investment Plan of 12 heating companies, 11 benefited from this mechanism and the funds invested amounted to 67 million. lv. For the period from 2013 to 2017. All these projects have taken into account investments made against which the heating companies... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u25	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u26	...have received free allowances for over 3 million. Thank you again. I also thank my colleagues from BSP for accepting our arguments. This report will have a much greater value if we provide it immediately before the heating season, as from mid-April to early September repair activities are carried out in all these companies. The objective assessment of the technical condition in which the heating companies will be clear at the beginning of October. Thank you all for this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I will first put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov to replace the words two months from the date of this decision. Please, voting mode. They voted 167 MPs: for 167, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The motion is accepted. I will now read you again the draft decision with the adopted editorial amendment, which we will vote on: Project! DECISION in connection with the debates on questions by MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy of the Ministry of Energy in the field of heat supply, No 854-05-18 of 8 March 2018. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED By 1 October 2018, the Minister of Energy shall submit to the National Assembly information on the technical condition and operational suitability of the energy sites in the country in the field of heat supply. Importers supposed to Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u28	The procedure is formal, in the manner of conduct. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to thank you for your understanding. Today, on Great Thursday, we have shown that, indeed, when it comes to people's interest, we can unite and we can seek common solutions. Thanks and happy holidays to all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We do have an Easter miracle! Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We should thank Minister Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in the debates. We are going with questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. The first question is from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov on permits issued and fees charged for water use by the Dams of Dushantsi. [[Part of the Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber. Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov, perhaps we should wait for our colleagues to take their seats or leave the hall. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u30	Please have the MPs take their seats or leave the hall to have conversations outside. That's how we disturb normal work in the gym. Please, guys! Let's wait another minute until everyone takes their seats or just walks out. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in response to my parliamentary question, you pointed out to whom water permits were granted by the dams of Dushantski and Zhekov Vir. Please answer me: from whom have these fees been collected, on what legal basis and in whose budget have they entered? Is there illegal fees collected and, if so, is the responsibility of the institutions and employees responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u32	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kirilov! On the basis of art. 195a of the Water Act, fees for the right to use water for water use, use of water and pollution, as well as fines and property penalties, shall be paid on the budget account of the Basin Directorate indicated in the authorisation granting the right to use water, respectively in the criminal decree imposing the fine or penalty. In relation to the above of the permits issued by the Swimming Directorate of the East-White Sea Region to take water from the Dam of Dushantski and Zhékov Vir.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 196 of the Water Act, through transfer, have entered the Environmental Protection Management Company. The authorisations shall be issued by the competent authority under art. 52, para. 1 of the Water Act in the face of the director of the Swimming Directorate under the conditions of operational autonomy. Until 1 January 2018, the permits issued by the Director of the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea Region for the water use of the Dams of Dushantsi and Zhekov Vir........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Ministry of Environment and Water has not received any information about your case. During this year, the municipality of Pirdop has challenged before the Administrative Court of Plovdiv, two decisions of the director of the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea Region for the continuation of the permits for the water use of the dams of Dushantsi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u35	Dear Minister, I am not pleased with your answer and I will tell you the arguments why I have such an opinion. You answer to a previous written question to me: "According to art. 52, para. 1, t. 3 of the Water Act a competent authority to issue a permit for water use by a surface water site public municipal property is the mayor of the municipality, whose property is the municipal water site. In the next question you answer what fees have been collected by the Swimming Directorate since 2010. According to the answer to my previous question they have been collected illegally. I leave the documents here there are acts of public municipal property and a reply to the Swimming Directorate when the case is filed? 2018 that they are not the competent authority to issue this permit. I believe that they were issued in the previous ones and continued illegally. [[The National Representative Lalo Kirilov leaves the documents on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u37	Mr. Kirilov, I hope this file is for me. I take the commitment to perform a very detailed examination and to inform you without having to ask me a question, which you can naturally do, but as soon as I have results, I will inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The second question to Minister Dimov is from the MP Nikolai Ivanov about the problem of flooding homes and public buildings in the village of Hayredin, Vratsa district. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! You know well that for years in the village of Hayredin there has been a serious problem with high groundwater, threatening homes and public buildings from collapse. The reason, according to the villagers, is the existence and operation of the Small hydroelectric power plant of the Ogosta River in the area of the settlement. In relation to the above, my question to you is: what checks have been carried out at the small hydropower plant so far on this and other occasions, what are the findings of them, what will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to solve the problem, and is there an expert opinion already on what is the cause of this difficult situation with the properties of those living in the village of Hajredin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! With regard to the operation of the MTEC, I would like to inform you of the following. Under the Water Act, the Ministry, respectively the Swimming Directorate, issue permits for water capture and control the fulfilment of the conditions under which the water collection permit was issued. The permits issued shall grant rights to use water as a natural resource subject to the requirements of art. 62 of the Water Act. The agreement of the investment project, the technical solution for the implementation, and the permit and acceptance of the construction shall be subject to an illegal arrangement in the territories and related regulations. The pool directorate shall not have jurisdiction over the application of the LOC rules and shall not exercise control over their implementation. On 17 October 2012, the Ministry of Interior adopted the State Admission Commission and operated under the authorisation issued by the DNCC. Our competences are limited to controlling compliance with the conditions of the water collection permit and the provisions of the Water Act. In detecting violations, we are taking appropriate administrative-criminal and forced administrative measures. Until now, checks have been carried out by the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region on 16 January 2013, on 9 January 2015 and on 28 March 2018. Those checks have identified increased levels of groundwater in certain properties of the village of Hajredin, which are located above the working water level of the MPP. The operation of the MTEC is not found to be the cause of the increased levels of groundwater in the area. During the verification of the MTEC, Elena was working according to the established permit restrictive working cat of 48 m, imposed until the implementation of the Water Harmful Impact Protection Project. The technical solution for the facility of MVEC "Elena" was made according to approved by the municipality of Hajredin Detailed Development Plan. In designing the work project of the MPP, Elena "was agreed with a project of the municipality of Hajredin to correct the river in order to protect against the harmful effects of the water, for which the municipality of Hajredin has been granted permission to use a water site. The municipality did not realise the investment intention to build these facilities. In accordance with art. 19th para. 1, t. 4 (d) of the Water Act the protection facilities as well as the facilities and systems for strengthening river beds within the boundaries of the settlement are public-municipal property. In accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Water Act policy related to the activities of operation, construction, reconstruction and modernization of the water system and municipal property facilities are still carried out by the mayor of the municipality. Individual checks on citizens' alerts shall also be carried out annually on compliance with the conditions of the authorisation issued by the Ministry of Transport. No violations of the terms of the permit were found during the checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line from Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but it is clear that there is a problem in Hayredin. The municipality has some design readiness to implement an investment project related to the water use authorisation received, regarding the creation of the necessary infrastructure to protect against the harmful effects of the waters of the Ogosta River. My appeal to you is your ministry, your experts to provide the necessary methodological assistance and support to the Hajredin municipality in terms of supporting the financing of this important and necessary infrastructure problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the experts of the Ministry are always available to provide assistance. I would like to emphasise that the permission to use a water site has been granted since 2009, that is, nine years have passed. Moreover, it expired in 2015, so the local authorities must also assume their part of the responsibility. If we combine the efforts of the local authorities and the central government, I am sure that the continuing problem in the village of Hajredin will be prevented, but we expect the mayor's initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov regarding the use of subscription cards for the public transport by employees of the Ministry of Interior. You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Radev, my current question is dictated by information received and conversations with the Ministry's staff that some kind of reform is being prepared to lead to the cancellation of the use of subscription cards by the employees of the Ministry of Interior for Public Transport, which they are currently using. Please answer me: Is the Ministry really preparing a change in the regime of use of subscription cards for public transport by employees, mostly uniformed employees, what are the reasons for this thing, what is the reason, what you think such a change will lead to and will this improve the work of the employees of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on the basis of art. 185, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, employees of the Ministry travel free of charge in public public transport in the performance of their duties. This right shall be exercised by the employees of art. 142, para. 1, t. 1, t. 3 and para. 3 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The amount of funds for the transport of employees enjoying the right to travel free of charge in the performance of their duties, I stress, where provided by law, is determined annually by a decree of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year. The funds are provided by the Ministry of Finance of the Municipalities, which have complied with the statutory order for the award of public road transport in the form of targeted transfers from the central budget through the system of electronic budget payments. By letter from the Ministry of Finance, registration No 04-04-9 of 12 January 2018, funds were set for 2018 to compensate for the cost of free travel in the performance of official duties of the Ministry of Interior employees of 13 million. Seven hundred and fifty-five The employees of art. 142, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law, with status under the Law on the Civil Service, do not fall under this category of persons. You know that we already have those who are entitled to travel free of charge, using name cards, because the Law on the Civil Service has not provided for such an opportunity in the Law on the Civil Service. There's about 2,000 of them, by the way. The funds for the purchase of unpersonalised cards or tickets to be provided to them, if necessary, when using public transport by fulfilling their duties, may be provided on the basis of another member of the Council of Ministers' Order of 22 December 2017 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. According to that provision, on the basis of the duties and job characteristics, the employer confirms the list of persons, i.e. me, entitled to transport costs. These costs shall be incurred within the framework of the budget and shall not be considered as social expenditure. By my order, a working group has been set up to draft a new order setting out the order for the application of an employee's card with a view to the need for the performance of its duties, using public public transport. At present, the working group has prepared a report note to me proposing the draft order drawn up to be submitted for an opinion to the trade unions and to draw up guidelines for the allocation to the authorising officers, in the event of a financial opportunity to bear the travel costs and to that category of staff. Today, between us is the 5th, we must meet the Social Partnership Council and this order, after being discussed with them and our proposal, the working group, will report it to me and I will take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Radev, yes, you are right, indeed in the Law it is arranged that this status of employees should be able to use free urban transport, but in the end, we did not understand from your answer what direction your conversation will be and what is the proposal of this working group to have a restriction on the travel by urban transport of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, or not to have such a restriction? If any restrictions are actually introduced and the size of travel is reduced or in any way limited, it will certainly make the work and performance of the Ministry of Interior employees difficult, especially of the uniformed employees, because they are the main problem. Yes, you're right, civil servants who, with the latest amendments to the Law, have been separated from the specialized administration of the Ministry, are under another regime. But it bothers me, and most of all, the employees who perform and carry the patrol service, will they be affected? I really ask you to answer me, because if you do, it will really cause a big problem. I don't know if it will ultimately be in the direction of them, walking more, doing this work or not knowing what the goal is. But really, please, answer me in your duplicate in what direction is the decision of the working group, because this thing will actually affect the work of the Ministry of Interior employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is not a solution, it is a proposal of the working group. I told you that after they discuss it with the Social Partnership Council, I will make the decision. But you're right about the proposal, I can make it public right now, what they're offering and what the idea is at all, I didn't tell you that because I'm waiting to hear the unions say what they're going to say. And the idea is this 13 and a half million, I say, the number you've heard is 700 and... the exact number. I'll tell you one more thing. When they gave me the first order, without me, they gave everyone business cards. And I ask: "Well, there are employees in the ministry, directors, deputy ministers and all the others who use service cars, why do they need these cards? " BGN 2, 3, 5 million, for example. BGN, and let's give them to buy computers, whatever it takes, in the districts, for the household conditions. This is the subtext of the entire review that I asked, and look how long the administration has been fighting and cannot make a decision. I understand that this is also a social gain, but you are right and you asked me exactly about them, which I thank you for... what about the uniforms, what about the posters? None of these guys are gonna get hurt! Anyone who needs it for official service will get it. That is, of 13 million, the proposal for them is that at the beginning it was about 36 thousand employees with cards, now there are about 20. 21, that is, this difference, this money I have the promise of the Minister of Finance, the difference of that 13 million, for example up to 10 million, or as it will be, we will calculate it, will go for such needs. And those who don't need cards because they're... I'm not saying anything bad about those who aren't, there are uniformed employees, they don't need them. One bowl of cards takes, goes, travels between ministries, they are in different buildings, comes home, leaves it, takes it another. There's no need to have a personal card and spend that kind of money. That's the idea, and I think you'll agree to save money, but by no means one of those who perform such functions that you ask me about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u53	Thank you, Minister, for participating today. Question to the Minister of Education and Science, Krasimir Valchev from the National Representative Irena Anastasova, Donka Simeonova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for providing conditions for work, qualification and development of senior staff in the secondary education system in the country. Mrs. Simeonova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in art. 254 of the Law on pre-school and school education, as well as in the Rules on the structure and functions of regional managements of education, the status and functions of the head of regional management of education are defined. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 3, p. 1 of those rules say that the head of regional education management conducts state policy in the field of pre-school and school education in the area concerned, such as art. 5 says that this chief is appointed by the Minister of Education and Science, of course, after the respective competition. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 257 of the Law on pre-school and school education is determined that the management and control bodies of state and municipal institutions in the education system are directors. That is to say, there is no doubt that the heads of regional managements of education and directors of educational institutions are the people who have the responsibility and must have the respective competences, because to a large extent it is up to them to implement the policy on the ground. At the same time, with the continuous strengthening of the burden of administrative work, in general of the responsibilities of the heads and directors, on the other hand, of the admitters that we have had with colleagues, the issue of problems in the competitions for the conduct of directors and chiefs, political appointments, for carrying out checks on anonymous signals in order to remove uncomfortable people. Since we see the great responsibility that the management staff have, we believe that the Ministry of Education and Science should have a policy that ensures the respect and dignity of the management staff in the education system. Therefore, our question is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for creating conditions for the work and development of the management staff in the education system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, on specific issues, I have presented to you the main reasons for the release of heads of regional governments in the coming years. The other activities we conduct are regular workshops, conferences, discussions on current problems in pre-school and school education and those related to working conditions. The implementation of these measures involves all stakeholders in the face of the Ministry, educational institutions, employers' organizations and representative trade unions. The qualification structure of pedagogical specialists in the professional-qualification degree is improving. There is an increase in the share of those with the fourth and fifth grade acquired, which increased from 10.7% in 2007 to 22% in 2017. In 2017 the focus of the National Programme was on strengthening the practical direction of the trainings for contemporary management of educational activities so that the student can be an active participant in the process of education. Achievement of a higher quality of education is also associated with increasing the efficiency of the work of educational institutions. Management is seen as a continuous process of development and improvement of the priorities of educational institutions. The results of the training activities carried out at regional level are enhanced qualification of RVO experts, methodological and organisational support, increased administrative capacity of directors, vice-directors and other pedagogical specialists. A mandatory qualification has been introduced in the qualification credit system and ensuring the increased competence of pedagogical specialists to increase students' educational performance. That's in terms of qualification. With regard to competitions, yes, there are a number of school principals in the system of school education who have reached retirement age and others who are temporarily acting. We provide for the start of competition procedures at the end of this or the beginning of next month - perhaps the best time is in June and July so that they can enter from the beginning of the next school year, and perhaps the most appropriate date for entry is 1 August. In May, it is inappropriate for competitions. We know that in June there is also a concentration of work in educational institutions. With regard to staff stability, heads of regional governments, directors, we are more often criticised for having long-standing directors than for having this constant exchange rate. With regard to the heads of regional governments, at all of the management posts, at a higher level of leadership, the stability of the position is always balanced and with higher responsibility. It is often the director or the head of regional government who is responsible. And if you want, it is also associated with a higher level of waste than daily work, which may be a reason and in some cases we have a termination of relationships at the request of the persons concerned. We have heads of regional governments who have more than 10 years of internship. With regard to signals, we're trying to respond to all signals. In general, anonymous signals should not be reacted, but there have been cases where we have also responded to anonymous signals, of course, if they contain data with a higher degree of information, with a higher degree of risk and reliability. However, in general, anonymous signals should be approached with an increased dose of suspiciousness of the reported information, as well as regional managements, respectively, react to the signals they have regarding schools. This is one of the issues we also discuss that a large part of the time is wasted if you want, in response to signals. On the other hand, in a large system it is normal to have multiple relationships, situations that require verification. It is statistically inevitable, so to speak, to have local problems in one educational institution or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. It has become clear that you have understood why we are asking this question In the reply that you give me on 7 March 2018 to the written question concerning the dismissed officers of the office of RIOs, respectively, the RIO, the data is, to say the least, worrying because 75 chiefs were released in that period. The most common reason is by mutual agreement We don't need a mandate in this situation because they can't make it through their mandates. Our call to the meetings that we have held, indeed to make education more political and not to make constant shifts after each coming of a new government. Specially for the anonymous signals, we were asked by colleagues. The accusation wasn't so much against the Ministry as it was against regional governments. Because directors say that there are constant checks and ask the Ministry again to sharpen the attention of the heads of regional governments, as you say: only exceptionally can one do so, not rather by an anonymous signal, but not by using them to deal with directors who are inconvenient. The working conditions are already extremely severe and we appeal for a reduction in the administrative burden of directors. Of course, the good conditions for qualification to continue, dignified pay and a proposal that was made at the last meeting of our series for educational workers: to consider personal pensions for deserving workers of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Thank you. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Irena Anastasova on the actions of the Ministry of Education as a reduction of the administrative burden in the activities of teachers in the secondary education system in Bulgaria. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In recent years, especially with the implementation of the Law on school and pre-school education, the administrative activity in the Bulgarian school has increased several times. It's not just my finding, there's a lot of talk about it. I'm sure the Ministry knows, too, because at all meetings, that's the first problem to be posed. I'm sure you too, Minister, are aware of that. But you certainly didn't feel it on your back. As responsible as you approach its resolution, you are hardly fully aware of this burden. To illustrate exactly what this is about, I will quote a small part of the so-called check-in between fellow teachers in one of the groups on the social network. To a question from a colleague: what plans to work with each parent they developed, which hit me in itself, the answers were many, but the one I quote struck me very seriously. The answer was: I think that in the plan for general support in a school programme for the implementation of institutional policies for support for citizenship, health, environmental and intercultural education, in the Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for the promotion and enhancement of literacy, in the Annual Plan for School Festivals and projects, in the Programme for prevention of early departure and reduction of early departures, in the Programme for the provision of equal opportunities for inclusion of children and students from vulnerable groups, we are betting enough on the inclusion of parents in the process of pedagogical interaction. I purposely wrote all these plans to see how many there are. I would add: in the Educational Work Plan, in the master's plans, in the work plans of the pedagogical advisors, in the School Development Strategy, and I am convinced that I am missing something. Do you think that's normal? Do you think all these plans, the number of which has been increasing in recent years in geometric progression, have led to more effective work with parents? I'm saying this because that's the example. This question concerns every direction of activity at the Bulgarian school. Since I think you can't help but know this, and since you publicly stated in the autumn of last year that the Ministry of Education is aware and is trying to reduce the administrative burden and excess paperwork at school.. something that you confirmed days ago in Plovdiv, I read, I ask you to answer the question: what action has the Ministry taken to reduce the administrative burden in the activities of teachers in the secondary education system in Bulgaria so far? How do you assess the effectiveness of these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, yes, this is one of the biggest problems in the system. As you said, perhaps the largest. At the meetings I hold, this is a question that is most acute and that we may be having the longest conversations. If I'm familiar. I'm sure every single person who works in the system is more familiar than I am. We've got a lot of information, we've taken action. These actions must not be campaigning, they must be permanent. Unfortunately, there is one such reflex often when writing legal documents and mechanisms in the system, it is required to record the obligations, as you said, to draw up some plan. That doesn't work. We realized that. One of the actions is to change that approach. The other is to change specific legal documents. In October, changes were made to the Ordinance on Inclusive Education, which improved the organisation and quality of work in carrying out general and additional support activities for the personal development of children and students by limiting documentation. These changes are not sufficient, changes in new volume must be made. This is what we find and our colleagues are working at the moment. The mechanism for countering harassment and violence in the pre-school and school education system has been updated and the algorithm for its implementation has been simplified. Two times the administrative procedures have been relieved and the classification of the types of violence and harassment has been reduced and so on. Part of the changes made to the Ordinance on the organisation of activities in the school education system are also aimed at easing activities when organizing different appearances by kindergartens and school. Together with the Ministry of Health, we have developed amendments to Regulation No 10 on health requirements in preparation and compliance with weekly schedules, in force from the beginning of the second academic period 2017/2018 on the conditions for easing the administrative procedure, for introducing the possibility of using an electronic service. Draft regulations relating to quality management in institutions are currently being drawn up. You know that we have abolished this regulation because we have decided that, until it is replaced by another regulation, it would create an additional administrative burden. One of the main objectives of drawing up this project is precisely to reduce the administrative burden. The Regulation on the status and professional development of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists is under way, which is also aimed at easing the administrative burden and optimising its content. We are also taking other measures to change the existing legislation in order to reduce the administrative burden on pedagogical specialists. I hope that, in these formats that make the changes, the voice of more pedagogical specialists will be heard to a greater extent. Regulation No 8 on information on documents in the pre-school and school education system is also being amended, which will enter into force before the mandatory documentation for the beginning of the academic year 2018/2019. The aim of the next school year is to enable diaries to be kept on paper or in electronic form until the implementation of the electronic sections of the module Institutions may use their own software products for their electronic management, which ensure the development and availability of all the information reflected in the paper version's props. Upcoming optimization of the submission of information from the Centre for Evaluation in pre-school and school education by the RIO for the record of the results for exams and the acquisition of secondary education from the state matriculation exams. As I told you, easing the administrative burden is one of the most important activities. You said yourself that it interferes with the actual activities of teachers. All these activities that have been completed or taken are not enough, and this work must continue. It is also very often a matter of attitude from those working in the Ministry to regional governments, from regional schools. I am trying to create a culture of respect for each other's time and work to have economics in the requested information, in the bet mechanisms. Many of the mechanisms are thought of with good intentions, but they have sometimes led to an increase in administrative work and less to real other results, because even if there is such a plan, it does not guarantee that the activities under it will be implemented. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u64	Mr. Minister, I was listening to your answer with interest. Let me tell you, however, that I have bothered to attend several metropolitan schools and therefore I will speak with facts. You quoted the amended Regulation on Inclusive Education and its new version, in which administrative procedures as laid down in the previous regulation should be relieved. It's not like that. For example, when punishing a student, the steps are 13 - we are talking about a student. It starts with a report to the Director describing the specific case and not explaining what else; the Director addresses the report to the school coordinator; the coordinator arranges a meeting with the parents, which is reported, explains the case; a letter of notice is drawn up to the parents with the measures; an order of general support is issued to the student with certain measures and deadlines by the Director. After the expiry of the period laid down in point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers. 5 That's 13 feet! The 13th step is the order being served on the parent of punishment student within three days of its issuance. This is for every student! Supplement to the old regulation is the requirement of all students, for whom the Bulgarian language is not mother tongue, to provide general support, additional hours in Bulgarian language. 14, with this overall support being for all students who received poor grades for the term. These hours can be up to 80 hours of study time and up to 30 hours of vacations. These classes aren't paid to teachers, but that's not what this is about. Can you imagine how motivated suggestions from each teacher to the principal must be made in each school and how many orders he has to issue for this thing alone?! I've checked several schools, the number moves from about 50 to about 150 for failing grades, and for each student there should be a separate order. [[Reply from Minister Krasimir Valchev.]] I reacted the same way: couldn't this happen in an order? You can't, because every single order must be given to every single parent. I asked my colleagues from several schools to refer me to their orders for the period 15 September 2015. "20 March 2016', 15 September 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, s 20 March 2018, i.e. to compare the situation of the old law in the introduction of the new law and now, after the promised reduction of administrative burden. And since I'm limited in time, I'll only quote the numbers for two schools, and they're respectively 501, 675, 733; 1087 commandments, 1350, 1400; 477, 711, 765. The figures say that at least in this indicator we do not have any improvement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You ran out of time a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u66	I am finishing with this "Most of my colleagues believe that more than 50% of their time goes into filling out documents, because in each inspection they evaluate them according to documents. And as a school psychologist said, it takes me time to work with 12 children with special educational needs that I have. I'm gonna keep an eye on that, because this is a big problem at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u67	Thank you. Dear Minister, the next question to you is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev on the implementation of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." Please, Professor Bachvarova, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, honourable ministers! Our question with our colleague is related to the implementation of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." It is no secret for anyone that the implementation of the Programme in the part of the Research and Technology Development is lagging behind in its development and realization. The reasons are different, perhaps the main thing that is required is that the Ministry of Education and Science for the first time manages such projects and this creates prerequisites for many of the procedures and administrative requirements regarding the programme to be delayed. A problem has also occurred in the selection of evaluators. I must tell you that it is not yet clear to me how the projects have been ranked, which have so far come up on the basis of the assessment of these experts, as there is absolutely no publicity as to how the classification has been made. At the time when the question was asked, contracts were not signed either with regard to the projects for It is also not yet clear the fate of the third component of the Programme, and this is the creation of regional centres with a resource of nearly 100 million. lv. Our questions are related. They are specific because it is important to get a specific answer.. What is the time schedule for signing contracts in both directions? If they are signed, as I understand from the media in the last week, but this may not be relevant at this time, do you think that the projects will be implemented within the deadline and Bulgaria will not lose funds at the end of 2018, when an interim evaluation of the projects is made and therefore there should be individual achievements achieved in implementing the Programme? What is the fate of regional centers? How will the funds that are not allocated at this stage be agreed on are not allocated to the High Achievements and about 11 million for the Competent Centers? I hope that the answers will be specific because it is important for the scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u69	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, on February 28th, the Head of the Managing Authority signed three grant contracts worth nearly 130 million for the construction and development of Centres for Achievement. BGN, "Informatics, Information and Communication Technologies" for nearly 30 million. lv. and component "New technologies in creative and creative industries" for nearly 30 million. lv. Unfortunately, according to the component of the Healthy lifestyle industry, there are no classified projects. On 30 March, the Head of the Managing Authority signed six contracts worth nearly 120 million. lv. By component "Mechatronics and clean technologies" two projects have been agreed "Clean technologies for the sustainable environment" and "Water, waste and energy for the circular economy" for nearly 24 million. lv. and the Centre for competence, intelligent mechatronic, eco- and energy-saving systems and technologies, worth nearly 23.5 million. lv. By component "Informatics, Information and Communication Technologies" the project "Digitalization of an economy in a large data environment" was developed at a value of more than 13 million. lv. By component "Industry for Healthy Life and Biotechnology" the projects are sustainable use of bioresours and waste for nearly 24 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. and is financed under the new technologies component in creative and creative industries. The Managing Authority is currently completing the verification of the declared circumstances and documents provided under the second-ranking project under the "Informatics, Information and Communication Technologies" component. Under component "New technologies in creative and creative industries" there is no second project proposal that is classified for the financing of the evaluation committee. The initial design was set to be financed in the four directions of one centre of excellence and two centres of competence. The total value of the contracts concluded under the two procedures at the time for the construction and development of the centres of excellence and the centres of competence is nearly 250 million. lv. The implementation of the projects depends, first and foremost, on the beneficiaries themselves and on the aid from the Managing Authority. The term for the implementation of the contracts is up to the end of 2023. The Managing Authority shall organise for all beneficiaries under Priority Axis 1 both introductory and specialised trainings. The aim is to support quality, timely and in accordance with the implementation procedures as set out in the activities and objectives of the project. At your request for individual loss of funds at the end of 2018, I inform you that at this stage there is still a risk regarding the reserve under Priority Axis 1 of 14.6 million. Euros. The total value of the reserve under Priority Axis 1 together with the national co-financing is 17 million. 179,000. Euros. The reserve is not allocated by transaction and is related to the performance of the indicators, but is still actively working to minimise it. According to the 2018 Managing Authority's 2018 analyses, there is no risk of loss of funds under the Regulation Working hard on the preparation of the procedure for regional scientific centres. There is a draft selection criteria for operations that are in the process of updating. The Managing Authority of the Operational Programme organizes a series of meetings in the country to consult stakeholders at the earliest stage and stimulate the partnership between research organizations, business and local authorities. On the basis of the feedback made with the target groups, the criteria to be discussed in the Research and Technology Development Committee shall be finalised and subsequently submitted to the Monitoring Committee for approval. The ambition of the Executive Agency is the procedure for building regional scientific centres to start in October this year. With regard to your question about the remaining free resources under the two procedures for the construction and development of centres of excellence and the Centers of competence, I inform you that its total value is over 87 million. lv. These funds are not lost under the Programme and the Managing Authority examines possible options that will allow other project proposals on the reserve list to be financed with the residual resource. The final decision will be taken in coordination with the partners of the European Commission and approved by the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme in May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Rather, it will not be a reply, but additional questions, because your answers have provoked additional questions that are important to be answered at this time. You say that there is no risk of loss of funds, but in 2018, the intermediate indicators must be taken into account that for each axis the objectives have been achieved. The fact that in the other directions of the Programme we have good achievements and payments does not mean that the "Science" has fulfilled these criteria. I would like to ask: is there a recommendation from the European Commission at the beginning of February to transfer funds from the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" to the Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness"? Such information came out in the media. Is it important to know whether there is such an administrative procedure or such a recommendation from the European Commission at all? I am impressed that in all these projects it is very important that the power of herbs is seen as a project of great value, creative industries, but the food industry has completely disappeared from the projects that have so far been ranked, and Bulgaria is one of the countries in which this industry has an extremely important place to develop the economy as a whole. Since I was impressed that the last approved projects, which are related to the centres of competence, the means of construction, construction and repair work, are greater than 10%. I would like to ask: is there a change in the Programme, since up to 10% in the Programme should have been the funds envisaged for projects for construction works, for building a laboratory. There's even enough to buy buildings here. In the last reception there are projects where such funds are provided for more than 20%. It is important that you answer me because I personally do not know that there is a change in the program, but still, if this plus is renegotiated, please excuse me for not knowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u73	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u74	Mrs. Bachvarova, I said that with regard to the rule "n+3" there is no risk to the amount of verified funds, but with regard to the reserve related to the performance of the indicators, such a risk lies with the person. Is there a recommendation? Yes, we have received a letter from the European Commission commenting on the implementation of Priority Axis 1. There is nothing new in the letter regarding the analysis. We know we have a delay. Last year's real procedure has started. As you can see, they're almost done with the contracts to date. We are about to decide whether the non-negotiable funds will be directed to projects from the reserve, or whether procedures will be rebooted. This letter also states that it should not be excluded to discuss the possibility for these funds to be administered through the Innovation and Competitiveness Programme, which is the only other programme on which we have funds for this specific objective. This is not only a matter of mandatory transfer of funds, but also of a joint operation that is more focused on business and on priorities that are in the Smart Specialization Strategy. We have no solutions, no procedure at this point. It's just a recommendation and we have to do the analysis, I think by the end of April, I risk not being accurate. With regard to food projects, as far as I have information, there have been such projects. I have no right. I can't comment on the evaluation process. I don't have any information on the scientific value of the projects. I regret that in this area in which we have capacity, there is no approved project in this particular area. Perhaps this is also related to the lack of an approved project in the direction of the Healthy lifestyle industry in the operation. Otherwise, funds under the First Axis of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" with a source of the European Regional Development Fund, where are primarily funds for implementing measures to improve the infrastructure, including in the projects for the "Achievement Centres" and "Centres for competence" and more than 70% of the funds are provided for improving the infrastructure. Here, rather, the restriction is the opposite of the fact that we cannot use these funds at a higher remuneration rate or for other soft measures. A minimum of 70% of these should be used to invest in scientific infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation today. We continue with questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska regarding the payment of the apology notes by the general practitioners. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u76	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! According to Bulgarian legislation children's healthcare is free. Is it true, though? It turns out that in the last year in Bulgarian medical practice there is already the payment of medical notes. Pass of the law allows personal doctors to determine a fee of up to 3 BGN. for the issue of a medical note. In the last months of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, patient organisations, as well as general practitioners' organisations, went out to protest. One of the demands was to drop the payment of medical notes for children and that this activity be taken over by the Health Insurance Fund so that personal doctors, who already have enough commitments, would not be harmed. In this regard, we ask you and ask for your answer: what measures will you take to abolish this injustice and child health in fact be free of charge? As we know, according to the legal documents in force, the Health Insurance Fund does not have the activity of issuing apology notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Sidorova and Zhekova! The medical activities provided to patients and not paid by them are regulated in Ordinance No 3 of 20 March 2018 laying down a package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The issue of a medical note justifying the absence of children for health reasons is not included in the package of medical activities carried out by general practitioners. In this regard, the possibility of a medical opinion regarding the need for the child to be absent for health reasons to be provided by checking the outpatient list by analogy of the hospital list, and by means of a software decision will automatically fill in all necessary data. It is envisaged that the opinion will be a separate part of the outpatient list, which can be separated from it and provided to the patient. The National Health Insurance Fund has taken action to change the outpatient list in accordance with the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. However, there is one concern that this is a possibility that will happen somewhere in the future. What do we do with all the cases that happen today, tomorrow? When did you really, what deadlines have you given yourself for realizing the idea you have? I want to put things back in terms of our complex question. As you know, 45% of the Bulgarian population lives below the poverty line and 550 000 Bulgarian children are at risk of social isolation. It is these children and families today, tomorrow, in the future, God forbid, to get sick, that they will not be able to pay the corresponding amount in order in any way to certify that they will not go to school for health reasons. I am convinced that many of these families will simply make sure that their children do not attend school, which is at special risk. Please, in your reply to give us a deadline for what you plan to do in the software, because the real administrative burden that falls on general practitioners is large enough. They have reason to have a fee. The logical thing would be for the Cashier to pay for this administrative service. What you are proposing is also a good reason to drop this fee. The other thing that will in any way ensure that we are familiar with the opinions of general practitioners regarding this fee is that there is some commitment to the school's parental commitment, which in any way attests to the validity of these documents, to be checked by the parent concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u82	What I can say at this stage is that the National Health Insurance Fund has begun to work. Keep in mind that this is a technological process. I guess it'll take a certain amount of time to develop the new infirmary sheet. I hope by the end of April that this job will be completed, or at least I will follow it and mobilize the Cassata team to work more speedyly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I see that colleagues are satisfied nodding with satisfaction. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova, Ilian Timchev on Project for improving the conditions for the treatment of emergency conditions, Operational Program You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! One of the things that the whole community and Bulgarian patients are waiting for is the happening of the widely promoted rehabilitation project, a reform of emergency aid. As we know, it's about two projects. My question is in connection with the implementation of the Project "Improvement of the Terms of Treatment of Emergency Conditions",................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What is the number of emergency medics undergoing training? Will you be able to fully implement the Project within its term until 2019?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Naydenova and Dr. Timchev! As of 28 February 2017, the Ministry of Health has implemented the Project "Improvement of the conditions for the treatment of emergency conditions" under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020, with the main aim of improving the quality of emergency medical care provided through investment in human capital. The total budget of the project is 7 million. lv. 100% financial assistance to the Ministry of Health. So far, the following has been done. First, an analysis of the need for training of staff from the emergency medical centers and revealed affiliates and exported teams to them and to the staff in the emergency wards of the medical facilities has been prepared. Secondly, a contract was announced and conducted for the selection of a contractor for the supply of specialized medical equipment, furniture and stationery for the needs of the National Centre for Training and Qualification. Thirdly, the building in which the Centre will be housed is defined and quantitatively-valued accounts for the necessary construction and repair activities have been drawn up. Fourth, the administrative construction of the Centre has been completed. A Director has been selected and experts appointed in accordance with the establishment plan. Fifth, in the process of holding is a public procurement for the selection of a contractor to ensure publicity under the project. Sixth, in the process of preparation is the preparation of complete documentation for the conduct of a public procurement contract for the selection of a contractor for carrying out construction works on the project. In the process of preparation is also the establishment of a methodology and programmes for initial, periodic and continuing training of all categories of staff from emergency and emergency centres and the development and introduction of periodic evaluation methodologies for qualification and professional skills in emergency medical care. The preparation of public procurement contracts for the selection of a contractor providing logistics for emergency medical care staff and the selection of a contractor who will organise and conduct the training of all categories of staff from emergency medical and emergency care centres. In view of the statutory deadlines for public procurement, the start of the trainings is expected to begin in mid-September 2018. The Ministry of Health, together with the National Centre for Training and Qualification, has developed a graphic plan, according to which the overall implementation of the project will be completed within the prescribed deadline of December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u88	I want to thank Minister Ananiev. I've rarely received such a well-prepared and detailed answer. I hope that this important Bulgarian Health Project will be implemented in accordance with what Minister Ananiev said. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u89	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you don't want the back. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Georgi Gokov on the established deviation in the indicators of drinking water in the village of Kazanka, Stara Zagora municipality. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question to you is an established deviation, an increased concentration of uranium in the performance of drinking water in one of the 52 villages in the municipality of Stara Zagora, the village of Kazanka. Given that the public attention to the subject is heightened, Mr. Minister, the village is not large. Its land is 38 sq. km, and the residents are officially 132, although because of the wonderful place in which it is located its proximity to Stara Zagora Mineral Baths makes it an attractive place to live more and more young families. However, there is also a problem in the vicinity of the military polygon "Zmeyovo" and its water sources are in the territory of the polygon. Recently, on 17 March 2017, a press release of the Regional Health Inspectorate "Stara Zagora" appeared, saying: "In water monitoring carried out in a central water source in Kazanka, Stara Zagora municipality, a deviation of the chemical performance of water for drinking and drinking purposes was found. Regulations, applications and norms shall be quoted. So the drinking water from the village's water sources is contaminated with uranium. In this context, the Regional Health Inspectorate Stara Zagora makes a prescription for temporary limitation of the use of drinking water and for cooking to improve its qualities. Second control samples were taken which were sent to the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection in Sofia to re-examine the concentration of uranium in the water. You'll tell if they're ready. Regardless of the reason for the pollution, the intrusive mention in the press release of the word "natural" in a combination with the word "uran" does not in any way soothe the locals. It is clear that a source of natural, unenriched uranium can only be the deposits developed or abandoned of this highly toxic radioactive metal to man. There are no such deposits in Stara Zagora. The closest ones are located in Haskovo region. At the same time, the water source that feeds the village of Kazanka is located in the territory, as I told you, in the polygon of Zmeyovo and this makes the locals feel worried and not only they, but all Stara Zagoras that the presence of uranium is the result of the activity there. Mr. Minister, the questions are: when and how were Kazanka's residents known for the pollution and is there a delay in notification? Who is the source of uranium contamination at the village's central water source? Is it possible that the pollution directly or indirectly is related to the activity of the current or past in the military range of the Snake? Is it normal for a water supply source, whoever it is, to be located in the territory of a polygon where weapons and ammunition are being tested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The responsibility for the delivery of clean and safe drinking water to the population, as I shared with you, the MPs of last parliamentary control, answering the question of the state of drinking water in the town of Bregovo, is distributed among state institutions according to their expertise and competence and is not only a commitment of the Ministry of Health. That is why I am providing you with the following information in the competence of the Ministry of Health and the Regional Health Inspectorate. " Stara Zagora, about the situation in the village of Kazanka. A control monitoring carried out in 2017 by RZI "Stara Zagora" was found to exceed the control level of total alpha activity in the drinking water of the village of Kazanka. In accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 9 on the quality of water intended for drinking purposes, RZI "Stara Zagora" provides water supply companies with a prescription for carrying out further studies. On 8 March 2018, RZI "Stara Zagora," the water supply company received protocols with the results of samples provided for the analysis of radionuclei and the chemical indicator of natural uranium in BAS by the water supply company - Stara Zagora. The very same day they were sent to the Department of Radiological Protection (RZI) of Plovdiv, which exercises radiation health control on the territory of Stara Zagora region for the preparation of an expert opinion on the determination of an indicative dose, which is a health significant radiological indicator. On 14 March 2018, in RZI, Stara Zagora, an expert opinion was delivered by RZI Plovdiv, according to which the assessment of the indicative dose was less than the parametric value of 0,1 mSv, and specific recommendations were given regarding the established values of the natural uranium chemical benchmark, according to which the use of drinking water should be limited to drinking and cooking by the population. On 15 March 2018, a team of RZI experts, Stara Zagora, collected and analysed all available information on the water supply scheme, the results of the state health control carried out in the water supply area, the data from the monitoring carried out in the previous years, which showed no deviation from the natural uranium chemical benchmark. On 16 March 2018, a working meeting was held at the Ministry of Health with representatives of RZI "Stara Zagora," which indicated methodical assistance on the case, discussing the follow-up. On 17 March 2018, RZI "Stara Zagora," gave prescriptions to the manager of the water company "Stara Zagora," for limitation - temporarily, until the quality of drinking water is restored, drinking water use is prohibited, by requiring the operator to supply the population of the village of Kazanka water for drinking and/or bottled water, as well as to immediately inform the residents of the village of Kazanka of the situation created. On the same date, RZI Director Stara Zagora informed the district governor, the mayor of Stara Zagora and the mayor of the village of Kazanka about the problem, recommending to the mayor of the village to inform the population accordingly. A letter dated the same date also notified the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate "Stara Zagora." A letter has also been sent to the Basin Directorate of the East-White Region to take action from their competence. On 18 March 2018, in order to track the indicator during the different seasons, one sample was taken from one of the drainage drains and one sample from the location of the crane in the user. On 19 March 2018, a sample was taken from the consumer. On 19 March, a sample of the other drainage water was taken. On the same day, the three samples were provided by the Water and Water Department of Stara Zagora for analysis of the natural uranium indicator at the National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection. At present, all prescribed measures are implemented by monitoring the drinking water supplied with a tank for the needs of the population of the village of Kazanka. According to data of RZI, Stara Zagora, Stara Zagora, actions have been taken to explore and build a new water-based facility in the village of Kazanka, outside the territory of the polygon. With regard to the questions you have raised concerning the identification of the source of uranium contamination at the central water supply in the village, we inform you that the Ministry of Health does not have the competence and expertise to respond to them. These issues are the competence of other bodies entrusted with water management, as well as an expert assessment of the scientific circles working in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving the Minister the opportunity to answer to the end, because it is extremely important for the people living there, this question. Mr. Minister, I know it's not the Ministry of Health's commitment, so before I ask myself whether I should address you or the Ministry of Environment and Water. Since our Rules do not allow such complex targeted questions, I have asked it to you because people's health is more important than anything else. There have been frequent cases of uranium in drinking water and now again in your statement, in your response, you are talking about natural uranium. Where did this natural uranium come from when there are no such deposits? Perhaps we should explain to the people in order to dispel the doubt, because the Old Zagoras and the villagers who live there on the continuation of the polygon "Zmeyovo" have some special feelings about the polygon that something is being done is not wrong, but something to the detriment of their health and we must distract them if we want this polygon to do its work. Is it, after all, natural, unnatural, this uranium? To what extent is it dangerous, if it is natural or unnatural uranium, if I may say so. However, if it is natural uranium, the question arises: why hasn't the water samples previously indicated the presence of such uranium, or if it was decreed, why didn't it become known to the population? I would like to ask you to order in the next few months, not for months, but for the next few years to collect data, to analyse, to assess the risks of continuous monitoring of water quality in the area more often than usual, I mean, so that people there can live a little more peacefully. We can talk a lot about this, but we are running out of time, so the last thing I want to say is that there may be some standard guidelines for action in such cases, maybe they should update them and become known to people so that they don't feel threatened by such future cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I can also tell you what measures will be taken if you want to talk afterwards and why there is uranium, there is radon elsewhere, by the way, another topic. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on dispatch units in the emergency services centers. Dr. Timchev, come in, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, with the emergency assistance reform, a new model of disclosure of emergency call teams, known as 112, was built. With this was officially closed phone 150, but its structures.. dispatchers remained in the emergency medical centers, supporting the system of disclosure and playing an important role in it. In recent days, your experts, in the context of their speeches, on the occasion of the Emergency Aid Development and Modernization Project, have expressed an opinion on the removal of dispatch units and digitalisation of the publicity system. Our question to you is: is this kind of reform envisaged, and what is your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u97	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Dear Professor Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The emergency medical care system was finally built in 1996 with the structuring of 28 emergency medical centers. Parallel to system structuring is built and communication information system providing connectivity between all 198 emergency medical services branches. A regional coordination centre with a corresponding number of dispatch teams has been established to receive and transmit emergency calls to mobile medical teams. Until the National Emergency System has been established with a single European number 112, emergency calls shall be received directly by dispatch teams in the regional coordination centres via telephone 150. With the construction of a single European number 112, the direct connection of district coordination plants via phone 150 is interrupted. Emergency calls begin to be received through the six centers of phone 112. In 2015, due to difficulties in communication between patients seeking emergency medical care and district coordination facilities via 112, the emergency medical call and telephone 150 were restored. However, calls via phone 150 do not directly fall into the regional coordination centres of emergency medical centres, but are transmitted through the centers of phone 112. Due to the reported difficulties in communications within the emergency call system with number 112 itself and in communications with all emergency services, as a result of depreciated communication equipment and obsolete technologies, an interdepartmental working group was established with orders of the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Health with the task of developing a concept for the establishment of a new system for receiving emergency calls and resource management to emergency response services, based on a single platform to improve the service single European number 112 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the creation of the concept, the working group discusses all possible options that will lead to improvement in the reception and transmission of emergency calls. Proposals for closure of regional coordination plants and reduction of dispatch teams have not been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. Before I give the floor for a reply, I would like to inform you that guests of the parliament today are students from the secondary school............................................................................................. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] You've got a line. Here you go, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to tell you that 112 is a key stage in the organization and implementation of emergency medical care of all teams in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In recent years due to non-payment and maintenance of the software by the Ministry of Interior respectively this phone has been blocked and there have been a great deal of problems in the emergency system with late calls and this has jeopardized both the health and the lives of the emergency call teams as well as the lives of the users of the service are threatened by this is the Bulgarian population. I hope that you and Minister Radev will enter into good dialogue and synchronization for the maintenance of 112 phone. Of course, for me, the level of emergency assistance and what is aimed at moving towards the electronicisation of the system is good, but I think that at this stage Bulgaria is not ready to maintain in such a complete order the system of phone 112, so there is also a need for the teams on phone 150, which assist in the performance of the duties by those working in the emergency care system. Finally, I want to thank you, to wish you a happy Easter holidays! Alive and well!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u101	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You don't want to take advantage. Let me thank the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Let's wish him a happy and bright holiday!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u102	Thank you. Happy and bright holidays to you and your families!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u103	Thank you. We continue with a question to the next minister, Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. She will answer a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Kristina Sidorova, regarding the removal of the commitment of the declaration and receipt of a certificate of criminality with the residence of the person. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as of the end of February 2018, the last amendment of Decree No 26/2008 on the functions and organisation of the activities of the Criminal Offices has been in effect. The electronic official criminal record was entered and arranged, which is a means of achieving the official exchange of data necessary for issuing a criminal record and removing the requirement for citizens to submit documents to the administrations of the executive bodies. This presupposes a functioning data exchange system maintained by the Criminal Offices. The changes were presented as an expression and in order to reduce the administrative burden. Against this background, at least oddly and vaguely, the absence of a change in the rule of proofs and references to criminality, outside the hypothesis of electronic form, to state and receive the most in the place of residence of the person, namely no revision of art. 34 of the above-mentioned regulation. Taking into account the fact that electronic evidence and criminal records, respectively, the data exchange system, have been part of the criminal record system since 2012, our question to you is: when do you foresee a change of art. 34 in Decree No 26/2008, which will enable persons to declare and obtain a certificate or a criminal record from a place of free choice, irrespective of their place of residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, Mrs. Sidorova, first of all it is about amendments to Regulation No 8 Indeed, in connection with the implementation of Decision of the Council of Ministers No 338 of 23 June 2017, to take measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement and presentation of paper-based documents by citizens in different administrations, in February this year the amendments to Regulation No 8. In short, to remind you, I have repeatedly explained what this is about. These amendments relieve citizens and businesses by providing for the reduction of the administrative burden, i.e. not required, but simply removes the provision of a copy of the birth certificate or birth certificate in original, or notarized copy, or other document issued by a competent authority certifying data on the parents of the person. An electronic application by the executive bodies, national and territorial authorities, as well as by the Supreme Judicial Council, by the judicial authorities has been created and an electronic evidence of criminality is issued by the judicial authorities. I am in a hurry to make it clear that this is only valid in respect of citizens for whom there is no operational data on crimes committed, including in accordance with art. 78a of the Criminal Code.. This is about the imposition of administrative punishment. With regard to the question that you are asking, the Ministry is working on it, as this is related to the technical possibility to take place in any place a citizen to submit an application and receive one accordingly. To this end, the Ministry of Justice is currently implementing a project under the Operational Program "Good management". This is the programme under which we use the financial opportunities and it is named.. The realization of the Centralized Automated Information System. The legal status is expected to be created by the end of the year in order for the persons to be able to declare and receive a certificate of jurisdiction, regardless of the place they choose................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By the way, such an option is available at the moment, however, only for those with electronic signature. We all understand that we are talking about a technical opportunity, about software that needs to be made, to be implemented and accordingly the administration to implement it, but think about it. I hope this will be a fact by the end of the year, a major priority of the government, in particular the Ministry of Justice, on the relief of citizens and businesses under the administrative burdens that exist at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u107	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Here's your cue, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Tsacheva, thank you for your reply. I sincerely hope that this project will happen as soon as possible and that really Bulgarian citizens will feel a reduction in the administrative burden. Because at the moment when we are talking about reducing the administrative burden, you can not from any part of Bulgaria to draw evidence of criminality is definitely not a reduced burden, but is complicated. So I believe that this project, which you said will happen, the software will be ready and as soon as possible the Bulgarian citizens will be able to benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Here you are for the coat, Minister Tsacheva you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, there is no increase in weight, the opposite, because there is simply no change in this part. Never before has such an opportunity existed electronically. The project is being implemented. This will happen by the end of the year, because we are taking into account the ministers at meetings of the Council of Ministers on a major priority in the cabinet's management programme to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses, but then and when this is related to technological time, so I gave you the deadlines, I expect this to happen at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-05.u111	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mrs Tsetska Tsacheva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We conclude today's meeting with a wish for humility, understanding, and kindness during the next bright holidays! The next meeting is on 18 April 2018 at 9.00 am. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
