ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I will start with several messages before moving on to item one of today's agenda, which is: Draft decision for early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as member and chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. Messages: The National Assembly adopted Decision No 717 of 28 June 2018 on the file of KPC No 301/2018 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted a secret analysis of the competitive environment of the media market in the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. On 29 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2018 to 25 June 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2018 to 25 June 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). No 824-00-6 and n.e.c. No 824-00-7 was received by the National Assembly: Opinion of the Court of Auditors on the Financial Management and Control Report of the Internal Audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2017 and Annual Report on the Status of Financial Management and Control Systems of the Internal Audit of the Court of Auditors for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Statement to the Committee on Budget and Finance and are available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. The National Assembly has received a report from the Chairman of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 May 2018. "24 June 2018 and Protocol No 28 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 June 2018, at which the report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the minutes were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about the price indices of a producer on the domestic and international market in the industry in May 2018, and the Industrial Conjuncture June 2018. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point of today: PROJECT OF A DECISION FOR THE PRESENT TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWERS OF IBAN NIKOLAEV Ivanov AS A MEMBER AND PRESIDENT OF THE COMMISSION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION. With the motives of the importer will introduce us to Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on 26 April 2018, the National Assembly adopted a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. With the votes of 142 MPs, including 70 MPs from GERB, 45 MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. 6, which creates a new t. In Article 23a, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 of the Energy Act. In accordance with the text of the adopted law in competence and with the power of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, it is expressly entrusted with the authorisation of actions by order of shares and shares representing more than 20 per cent of the capital of commercial companies engaged in a licensing activity in the transmission and distribution of electricity or gas with a view to ensuring the security of supply in the protection of national security and public order. On 28 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 28 June 2018 to 25 June 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2018 to 25 June 2020 ("the Committee') appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2018 to 25 June 2020. The report on the activity of the Energy In the course of the discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission found an occasion and made an interpretation of the norm of the new item. 23 in art. 21, para. 1 called by him, I quote: "Blanket text" which does not correspond to a few basic things. Apart from this definition of Mr. Ivan Ivanov's interpretation, it became clear that he had no intention of obeying and implementing the Law. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is the body that regulates activity in energy and water supply. As such, he does not interpret but implements the Law. The law on legal acts explicitly and comprehensively determines who has the opportunity and powers to interpret the laws. And the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, including its President, are not among those who do this. The power and obligations of the Commission for energy and water regulation are clearly defined by the law on energy. They do not need interpretation and they are all reduced and expressed in implementation of the Law. Actions in the interpretation of a rule of law and, in particular, in an attempt to explain why it is not implemented, are unacceptable behaviour for a member or president of any state body established by definition for the application and enforcement of a law or policy. This, in the face of the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Mr. Ivan Ivanov, is undoubtedly a serious, fragile violation of the duties within the meaning of art. 125b, t. 5 of the Energy Act. That is why we present to your attention a decision for early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as a member and chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u4	Project! DECISION on early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as member and Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 12b, t. 5 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He suspended the authority of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as a member and Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Dobrev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure by Ivan Ivanov, Evgenia Haritonova, Penka Trendafilova, Remzi Osman, Vladko Vladimirov, Alexander Yordanov and Georgi Zlatev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Please vote on the procedure for admission. Vote 168 MPs: 143 against 16, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. I'm opening the debate. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! There is not a very high influx of speakers in relation to the activities of the independent Commission and body, and this is somewhat understandable. This is partly the case because such a commission, such an institution, is honoring every democratic state. That is, the requirements for them, the standard in which they must work, are subject to particular sensitivity and attention. The big question is: is this our case, is this the behaviour, is this the activity, is this the framework in which the KEWRC operates? Turns out I didn't realize that most of my colleagues in the KEWRC knew them personally. I've worked with some of them in civilian life, but that's not what we're discussing here. We're discussing something completely different here. Do we need such a democratic conquest of an independent body and of independent bodies if it does not comply with the Law? Do we need such a structure, an institution, such a part of the administration, which, here where the legislator makes decisions, explains to the legislator himself that at this stage he does not intend to comply with the Law because he has claims against it? What are the big requirements, what are the main questions, what are the tasks facing such an institution? Keep in mind that this independence, which these authorities have, implies an apodic function - I will say it in human language, they must have a way of working and action that depends on nothing else but themselves and must have a pro-active position in each case. Since 2017, with the case of CEZ, Ginka Varbakova, we have dozens of reasons to say that public and national interest has been violated. We have dozens of reasons even in the old legislation to make a claim or at least to request prior information about what is happening. We've had wonderful examples since 2001. The Energy Development Strategy and the Power Sector Detention Strategy, which shows how high the requirements were back then. I do not believe in the thesis that when it is disbanded or privatized, the conditions must be one, and when there is a subsequent sale, there must be another. In other words, I do not believe that the state should constantly reduce its criteria in terms of protecting public interest. I don't believe it! What's going on right now? What are they showing us? When you kill a civil servant, you tell everyone else: "Look, this will happen to you! " When an independent institution comes in and says, "I will not implement your law, because in my opinion it is not perfect, a model of action is given to all other state structures, which says: The National Assembly in this country is worth nothing. These can pass laws, and we can not obey them or wait for someone to call and say what to do and what not to do. I would like to thank the Bulgarian Prime Minister for yesterday's decision to withdraw the amendments to the Law, which concern the excise duty of smokeless products, but the model...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u9	Please, on the subject, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u10	Madam President, I give it as an example of an illustration of the model. Is this supposed to be the model in a democratic state? Is that how we're supposed to solve the questions? Dear colleagues, we have many other reasons, many other arguments, and we have many more reasons to request the resignation of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, who, by the way, I think is a good professional. However, this is about conducting state policy in a sector that is among the few that have such a high public and national interest. We have a lot of letters from independent civil society organizations and structures that speak and resent what an abridged procedure means, without discussion, when raising electricity prices, heat, gas. How is that possible? Dozens are examples. I'd like to, and with that, I'd like to finish, return you to my first reasoning. We have democratically conquered positions, institutions that honor the Bulgarian state. The criteria for them must be uncompromising if we respect ourselves as a nation and as a country. That is why we believe that in this format and function Mr. Ivanov goes against the interests of the democratically conquered institutions. Thank you. I support our motives. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Replies to the statement of the MP Atanas Kostadinov? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our disputes regarding the implementation of the power of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have started, I recall, since the announcement of the possible deal with the assets of the CEZ Group in Bulgaria. Even then, we have argued and continue to argue that the Commission, under the provisions of the Law, has sufficient powers to refer and request relevant information about this transaction. We had repeated correspondence with President Ivanov on this issue. I will only recall some of the allegations to make it clear to the House the essence of the debate that we are challenging today. In no way do we accept the Commission's claims that, if you see, the Commission has no right and reason to intervene in the disposal of the assets of the electricity distribution companies in Bulgaria. In this regard, I will recall the provisions of the Energy Act. There it is stated: the applicant authorises the disposal of property by which a licence activity is exercised in the cases provided for in the Law, as well as other transactions which lead or may lead to a breach of the security of supply due to the debt of the energy undertaking. As a result of the debt of the energy enterprise! The transfer of shares from the capital of the above companies, according to the Commission, on the basis of the reply we received, does not constitute an order of property exercising a licence activity under this law. The first big gap that we have, which we explained to people in the following way: in order to sell a platform, the Commission needed permission, however, to sell the whole company the Commission does not interfere because, you see, it was not within the scope of its activities. The arrangement with the capital of the company was not an order of property of the company. We believe that the spirit and letter of the Law is another, that it has given the Commission powers precisely to ensure the public interest in such cases. Notice, in the correspondence we had as MPs, I read official correspondence addressed to the President of the Commission, there is a very interesting statement regarding our questions why the Commission does not apply its powers to this transaction? First, it is argued again that the shares will be pledged not by the licensed companies but by the future owner of the shares, i.e. there is no deal. That any future buyer would bet everything he acquired is not a deal, as no one would bet CEZ's shares. The next sentence, however, is more worrying: betting of shares does not result in the debt of CEZ "Electro Bulgaria" or CEZ "Distribution Bulgaria" insofar as "Inercom" Bulgaria is not a licenser, but the person who will pay the loan. The possible failure by Inercom. Bulgaria to comply with the terms of the loan agreement can lead to the payment of the financial institution through cash proceeds from the sale of these shares, i.e. the transfer of ownership of the shares of CEZ and CEZ to a third party. This is the official answer Mr. Ivanov signed to us. In a word, the Commission considers that it does not intervene in this transaction, there is no reason to intervene in this transaction, but clearly describes the possible hypothesis, if there is a deal with In a word, the great role of the regulator is absolutely meaningless because we can witness how a third party will become the owner of these companies without any role, no involvement in this process. I consider the arguments put forward by my fellow Members here to be correct because, at the beginning of 2000, the state started a process of disbanding this sector and then set, I think, European standards and criteria. They're tall enough. Standards to ensure the development of this system, standards to ensure security of supply. It doesn't make sense for years after that that that we're bringing down these criteria and standards ourselves. This understanding was also a product of the debate in the Chamber when the last changes to the Energy Act were made. You can see that with the latest amendments to the Energy Act, we have cleared precisely the texts existing so far in the Law, which have allowed the regulator to claim that there is no reason to intervene. The legislative body has been adamant and has replaced this right from now on with the Commission. And from now on, Mr. Ivanov, you and the members of the Commission have a huge responsibility for how and how you will apply the Law and not comment on it. How and how you will apply it! I believe in the independence of Bulgarian regulators, however, this independence can only be placed on the Law, the provisions of the Law and its application with the same archin for all. By the way, the deal with CEZ will be such an attestation for regulators in Bulgaria. The first regulator through which the Commission for Protection of Competition passes three months does not initiate proceedings. Now we will see what the result will be. Then this deal should come into your hands. We'll see what the result is. My request is indeed: measure with the same arsin and obey the Law and regulations. Because this is how we signal Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian society, we signal all investors about it. I am impressed that some transactions go very quickly through regulators, and for others either do not interfere or act at all that they do not exist in one way or another. I hope today's discussion will be useful in this direction and we will really show that we are protecting the public interest in these relations and it is leading in our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed decision by BSP requests the release of the President of the KEWRC on the basis of the Energy Act. However, I will take the tape back a little bit to remind you of how I personally asked for the resignation at least three times so far. It's documented. Mr. Ivanov is here, he can confirm. Since the transformation of KEWRC, when it became an independent Commission, so independent that no one can intervene with it, since 2015, from the very beginning the group of BSP then supported both the creation of the body of KEWRC and the composition that was proposed then before me is the text again with President Ivan Ivanov and eight others. How did you support them? With an artificial ambush, BSP are quite capable of 40 people, two people were in the Chamber when the composition of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory was voted. We were 7 people from Ataka, showing the shorthands. There were two BSPs in the room, of 40 people, of two. When BSP offered an alternative, another president of KEWRC "Elenko Bozhkov," then from "Attack" we defended him with 8 votes and BSP defended his candidate with only 5 people. This suggests that the BSP group then, Mrs. Ninova was also in this group, practically supported Ivan Ivanov and the then composition of the KEWRC. The KEWRC report on 8 June 2016 was voted 114 votes, of which 12 are BSP, two of which belong to Cornelia Ninova and Dragomir Stoinev. The same Dragomir Stoynev, when presenting the model of the KEWRC, said that it is good and must be supported, that is, we have a discrepancy. At the last moment, now, today, BSP comes out and says: "The KEWRC needs to be replaced." I immediately ask: when the chairman of the KEWRC is replaced, what will this lead to? Will it lead to a new Commission policy? No, because in this committee, decisions are made by more than half, with a majority. Suppose we now bring down the chairman of the KEWRC, for which I am both-handed, it will not lead to changes in policy, the work of the committee itself. It will continue in the same way to serve monopolies in energy, especially foreign monopolies. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that matters be resolved cardinally, by attackers, not by besepist. That is, to adopt an amendment to the Energy Act, which we have drafted in even two versions. We will present it to all the parliamentary groups. Read it, get acquainted, let there be consultations, especially to GERB. Because this amendment implies the very composition of GERB to be reduced...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u15	The KEWRC.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u16	Nine people for one Commission, which currently has committees that are much more important, with five, seven people and so on. This is one which implies re-election of the entire Chamber not only of the President. Then we also propose clauses with which KEWRC's accountability to become real, because at the moment it is none, it is formal. An annual report that is read here, voted, did not vote, yes or no, does not matter, does not have any sanctions. If this report is bound by the resignation of the Commission, if it is not accepted in the Chamber, then indeed the National Assembly will be a control body over those elected. The KEWRC is currently out of control. It is so independent that there is simply no such other body in the state. Both the court and the prosecution aren't even that independent. This needs to be corrected and we propose, absolutely constructive, absolutely constructive, to consider our two options of amendment of the Law, to consult the parliamentary groups and to reach a real solution in which the KEWRC will be a committee to... [[The National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov submitted documents to the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] Yes, thank you, my colleague here presents the two options they've made. They are not yet submitted to the Office because I want, firstly, to have consultations, to have the opinion of all the parliamentary groups. I hope to support both GERB and BSP because the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is a very important body and its work affects life, let us not say life, but the pocket and standard of many Bulgarians, of millions of Bulgarians. Personally, I and my colleagues from "Attack" have participated many times in protests and in front of the KEWRC building itself when the price of electricity was raised. Now this is also underway. The cost of water rose in some cities to 20%. In my constituency, 20% rose the price of water, with the approval of the KEWRC. For pensioners, for people with no options, this is a very strong blow to finance. As of July 1st, the price of heating and electricity also began to rise. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission not only explains nothing about the issue, but we have the feeling that it is just standing as a front to serve the interests of major monopolies. I'm not gonna talk about the ERPs. I've been giving so many lectures over the years, I can put them together in volumes. These aren't foreign investors, these are foreign exploiters. There are dozens of evidences, facts of this here I have presented them to the Prime Minister then, a whole folder with dozens of frapantic violations of the ERPs over the years. Some of them changed their names, but they are foreign companies that continue to monopolistically collect the money for the electricity from the pocket of the Bulgarians and to ask for a continuous increase and increase. The KEWRC must be a committee to say no, to be able to say no to the demands of the monopolies. It is not such at the moment, so let's change its composition, there should be no party representatives there, because at the moment the head of the KEWRC is a representative of a party that must..., they, the parties, cannot be subject to a judicial search, but a party that is guilty of robbing Bulgaria, I mean Kostov's party. So, a typical and bright representative of this party, who does not hide its political bias, tends to now stand at the head of the KEWRC. It's obvious what kind of policy he's gonna make. This, the same chairman, several times in a row, when he was a member of the Kostova Party, expressed his criticisms, his attacks and literally disagreed with the then ruling government, which was a variant of the current cabinet, with the main party GERB. We have political persons standing in a regulatory body and must make decisions concerning the fate of millions of Bulgarians. It's not normal right now, we have to change it. There experts must stand and I propose that in the amendment in the Law they should not be from the quotas of parties in parliament, but should be experts, publicly recognised, approved and elected by the National Assembly by consensus so that there are no party biases. Those are my suggestions. Mrs. Ninova, if you like, I'll introduce you to them, Sunday school continues its work. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Replies to Mr. Siderov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! In 2015, we fully unanimously amended the Energy Act and made it possible for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be elected by the National Assembly. This was due to the fact that we had experience in questioning political pressure on decision-making in relation to the fact that there was great public discontent with the Commission's decisions and because we had great recommendations from the European Commission that this body should be elected by the National Assembly so that it would be absolutely independent of both the institutions and the parties. I think that absolutely correct and in harmony this body began to work, was professional and was absolutely approved by the National Assembly. This body had many solutions during those two years. I also looked at statistics regarding the reduction or increase of electricity prices, the heating, respectively the gas, which is unfortunately imported into Bulgaria. I think that it was absolutely harmonious, protecting both the interests of companies, because they started to have the liquidity they needed to provide quality of service, but not only to have the security that ensures that the NPP, especially the Kozloduy NPP, and not only, of course, the investment process in these companies, and also balances with the interests of the people, that is, it does not comply with the company's demands to increase prices by the size they wanted. The KEWRC made a report for 2017. This report was read, there were no comments on it and was adopted by the National Assembly as well as unanimously in the Energy Committee. All of a sudden, let's put it this way, at the people's, wedge or wedge, we demand the resignation of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, of a collective body. Notice, this is a collective body that makes the decisions together, that is, Mr. Ivan Ivanov does not make these decisions, and he is asked to resign. But is he in a wedge or up our sleeve?! We know that a little more than two months ago, I think, we already had a choice both under the Energy Act so that there would be continuity, four new members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have been elected. Each party had to nominate members. BSP also had that right, there was an indication that they would nominate. There were names attached, however, and at the last moment BSP said they would not nominate such a member. Of course, we, as people with experience in politics, immediately saw that this was a preparation for an attack on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This is preparation in relation to the decisions that the Commission will eventually take for the new price period. This is an attack which was a continuation of the Commission's attack on approval, note the business plans of water companies, water associations so that they can implement, of course, these business plans and be able to master European funds for modernisation and renewal of the water network. For the past two years and more, an unprecedented attack has been made by a political force that stands to my left. Protests were made, respectively there were political statements and pressure on the Commission not to accept these business plans, which, notice, were proposed by the water companies themselves, where water associations took part, where mayors of settlements, district governors, municipal councils and so on took part. They offered them, they only approved them, but there was political attack, pressure, demek what we believed in as a chimera that there would be no political pressure on the independent body had already been implemented. After this month of February 2018, there is no other way to formulate it, surprisingly the Czech company, and perhaps not so surprising for people who follow, like me, who have asked questions, they are documented, Czech company CEZ sells its business in Bulgaria and sells it to a Bulgarian company. Of course, it is normal, it is logical that the political power states its views on the trade deal between two companies, but accordingly this is used to attack the ruling coalition, but mostly GERB party, which is the majority of this coalition, and personally the prime minister. We, by succumbing to the pressure that has been exerted politically, have set up a Temporary Commission. We have done so to have a minority in this committee, and therefore we have agreed that the President of the Commission should be of the opposition. This committee had to come up with conclusions, revealing how the government almost sold, or said who to be the subject of this deal and so on. It turned out that there was no such thing, at least the Commission did not find such a thing. It turned out that the Commission did not find in any way the Bulgarian government 2017 to have known or interfered.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u19	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u20	No, no, it is on the subject, it is precisely on the subject because it is based on these questions to Mr. Ivan Ivanov whether he follows the Law, namely on this occasion. I want to actually apply the logic in which things are happening at this point. An amendment to the Energy Act has been proposed, which, I agree, I also voted, but with a huge, particular opinion, that this is a non-working text. It was also expressed here, by this tribune. We have assembled the KEWRC Monitoring Sub-Committee, unanimously all participants in this subcommittee agreed that these changes in the Energy Act cannot work in this form. A legal analysis must be carried out in order to set clear criteria, indisputable criteria on the basis of which the Commission is to rule on any such transaction. This legal analysis, due to the fact that the Sub-Committee and the Energy Commission do not have this financial resource, we wanted to assign the Advisory Council to the National Assembly, respectively, to the Minister of Energy, to give this legal analysis and possible proposals for criteria that we should accept and submit to the National Assembly. I have spoken with Mrs. Karayancheva, we have talked about this, Mrs. Petkova is aware, that is to say we all unanimously know that these legal changes do not work without specific criteria. Accordingly, Mr. Ivan Ivanov of this tribune answered the same question: that he has no criteria, there is no way from the air to say whether a deal is right or wrong. I'd like to quote something else. I think March this year it was said that it will be awarded to the court in the Czech Republic or the court in Bulgaria, 200,000 signatures will be offered by BSP, of course, and accordingly this deal will be broken. I don't know such a claim so far. On top of that, these 200 000 signatures, I do not know which legal text, because this was not a referendum, were collected and submitted to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, provided that the Energy Act does not mention that signatures should be collected for this thing. If that's not pressure, tell him health. It's a huge political pressure, how can I say it, and it's insatiable! This pressure has eventually already exploded in this resignation of the chairman of a collective body, without clear motives. What is written, I believe, is absolutely untenable. Okay, this resignation even if it is accepted, which I doubt and hope will not happen, what will change the Energy Act so that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will rule on this deal? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! We must complete our task here and give specific answers and specific criteria. In the end, if we want a law to be respected, the law must be clear, precise, also enable the toolkit of the authority to which we have assigned to implement the legal text. But that did not happen, and we are still in a working phase so that we can do this legal analysis so that Bulgaria will not suffer. To Mr. Dobrev's question: Would you take the burden of exerting pressure on the KEWRC and on their basis an arbitration claim to Bulgaria could be filed and many millions would be paid by the Bulgarian taxpayers? After all, you said: "We only ask, not that we do not import 200 000 signatures against the deal and we want to stop this deal, but we do not exert pressure. We conclude that we are interfering in a collective, independent body by any possible political pressure and by any possible political means. I ask you, provided that the BNB does not provide the Commission with these letters, why not request the resignation of the BNB of this independent body, which, however, is even more closely monitored by the European Commission in relation to its independence, because the sensitivity for the banks at European and global level is quite clear? Let's ask for it there too! We can find a lot of reasons and request the resignation of all authorities in Bulgaria, which are regulated. We can find reasons! And where is the state, where remains the European principles on which this country is founded and which is in the European Union?! There are no such principles, because we will follow our political interests! I want to tell you this: that sooner or later all these stones you throw will turn to your heads, because if we do not retain the independence of these regulators, then in this case we become guarantors of what will happen and which will damage the state, and sooner or later you will also become governors. I hope, of course, later, but so will you, and you will rely on these independent bodies. Then what's happening? This stone will return with greater power to you. That is why I call on you and I think that the healthy thinking that you have and what we have achieved together, let us not spoil this social peace and independence of the authorities, let them work, because at some point all of this will come to us as an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mrs. Yankova. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u22	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Commission! Mr. Nikolov, you must have arguments and all of us here in Parliament have a desire in Bulgaria to have really independent bodies. Bodies to protect Bulgarian statehood and arbiter, especially when additional financial burdens are being made on Bulgarian citizens. One thing I cannot agree with: water issues and the cost of water. You, GERB party and the government, have made the Commission at the moment a rubber stamp to validate a political solution. And I'll tell you why. The district governor, who holds the high percentage of the Water Association, has a power of attorney from the minister, has a policy to raise the price of water. The district mayor, where most of the places are your mayors, activists, even regional party presidents, too. That makes a majority. The head or director of the water service is appointed by the Minister and this person carries the folders accordingly to increase the price. Well, how can the price not be increased and how can they not put the stamp on it that it is increased when you have created, i.e. by the created bill, it is political will to put additional weights on the water? So in terms of water, I got very irritated. At the moment, the Commission has been turned into a rubber stamp to raise the price of water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Second line, Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u24	Mr. Nikolov, you should have clarified that in the area of water regulation there is actually a representative of BSP, so their criticisms can discuss them first with their representative because he professionally takes care of his work, according to my personal assessment. But I didn't understand anything else and I want you to repeat it here from this tribune. You, as I understand it, said, because I am not a member of the Monitoring Commission of the KEWRC's activities, that the subject of the legal amendment was actually discussed in the Monitoring Commission of the KEWRC's activities. In the Commission, you have all unanimously established that this amendment is not in operation without the addition of criteria to it. Is that right? Something we've been saying since the adoption of the amendment to the Law. And all members of the Monitoring Commission of the KEWRC have decided, including BSP colleagues, that criteria need to be developed in order for the KEWRC to fulfil its powers by law, which at the moment cannot be met because there are no criteria. Once again, I would ask you to clarify this exactly because, if so, I do not see the reasons of BSP colleagues to claim that something has not been fulfilled, provided that they have agreed and said that this cannot be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I have infinite respect for you! You were even on the subcommittee when we discussed the matter, and I know the signals that went on there. Of course, even if I were to suggest that you are absolutely right, this does not explain what you were doing as a party to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and protested against this rubber stamp, as you said, to the KEWRC. I can't explain it. You purely politically wanted to bring down the Commission in this case, if it was a rubber stamp, but I do not think it was a rubber stamp. After all, any such decision can be protested before the court. In fact, I think there are a lot of decisions and business plans that have been challenged in court. I didn't follow up on what happened next. I know that Mr. Kochkov, whom I have infinite respect for, he is absolutely professional and not politically acting on the matter, implements the Law as it is. I would say that this law has been adopted together with your help in the National Assembly, but whatever. Mr. Dobrev, you're absolutely right. I do not point that out in order to be vulnerable BSP. I say that we have always worked in a good atmosphere and professionally in the Energy Commission. We've discussed all the topics. They are a large part of the importers in the Energy Act, which we support together with you and with my colleagues, because this is pragmatism, it is something that really supports the stability of the system. In the subcommittee, which was closed for a reason, so that we could think clearly and not in front of the cameras to take roles, we made it clear that the Commission could not perform these legal tests that we adopted without clear criteria. We all unanimously agreed and commissioned these legal analyses through the Energy Commission. This has been clear and has been unanimously supported and we have accordingly assigned this thing. There's talk already and we're waiting for the results. It's definite, it's in the transcripts, and anyone can check it out. I do not see why, at this very moment, the Commission should be asked to do something that is not clear? On top of that, it'll be attackable both in court, so don't give yourself a god, and through arbitration. At some point, we could pay more money. Is that the point, I don't know?! Maybe that's the point. But ultimately the Bulgarian consumer and taxpayer will lose because we do not do things right. Let's do it right! Let's make criteria, let's end the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Next statement? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u28	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u29	Make an extension of the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to clarify something: this is not about any pressure on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. That's gotta be clear! Just because we want the opposition to comply with the law does not mean pressure, colleagues! I believe that we live in the rule of law, a Member State of the European Union where there is rule of law. If I'm wrong, correct me. Our reasons for the request for resignation are precisely that the President of the Commission clearly and categorically stated here on this stand that he would de facto not comply with the Law because it is a blanquet text. If I have to, I can also quote that this is really a blank text. However, this text, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you have voted on it. I don't accept the apology that, you see, we've had some internal grievances and we've voted it under condition. In the end, you voted for the House, as we have all been convinced in this House, to support this text. Colleagues, why it comes to this text, which, by the way, reads as follows: The Energy and Water Regulatory Committee authorises actions.. Listen carefully to me........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This text is voted here in the Chamber because, as the previous Boychev explained very well, one of our letters to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission signed by the President of the Commission, where it is stated that the transfer of shares from capital does not constitute an order of property. That is, when transferring the capital, it does not constitute an order of property and therefore comes to this text, because before that the Commission is also entitled to rule when it comes to an order of property which is managed by companies which have the necessary licences. Now all of a sudden it's explained that, you see, the law cannot be fulfilled, for us it's scandalous. After all, this is really an independent institution, and it is not about pressure, but in the end, this institution cannot do what it wants. Isn't that right?! We talk a lot about criteria, there are no criteria! Okay, so do you have to describe the criteria in the Law? I now, sitting and thinking, can I state: should there be criteria for example for a minimum amount of electricity sold in previous years; should there be criteria for proven experience in working on a liberalised market; proven experience in determining electricity transmission networks from a certain number of years; available capital, credit rating? [[Comments from GERB. A line from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] Is it so difficult for these criteria in the Commission to be drawn up by a regulation or must we write in the Law, for example, what must be the credit rating or what capital should this company have?! Colleagues, we live in a global world! Do we know when there will be a transfer of assets and sales and what will be the economic situation in five, ten, fifteen years? And we need to change the legislation now and put in a specific framework so that, you see, this framework can be implemented!? If this is how we work with each institution, then it really doesn't make sense from these institutions, give, as the executive does, to transfer everything to the legislation. And we are at the center of every scandal, and we are to blame for absolutely everything! I'm totally against this thing! After all, there are separations of authorities. Some people, if they can't do their job, rather say: look, we have problems with first, second, third. We are ready to implement it, but we need administrative capacity to help us. We do not have enough money to carry out our activities by law. But when you come here from the stands and it's said that, you see, what you voted on is blanquet and we don't care, it's really scandalous now. This shows that the person who utters these words continues to experience himself perhaps as a politician rather than as a person who is called upon to carry out this work. And that is why we believe that from now on the trust in the institution itself is lost. Here, by the way, there was also a question of trust in other institutions such as: Bulgarian National Bank. I open a clamp: colleagues, entry and desire to join the Banking Union is a clear sign of the European Central Bank's credibility at the time of the management of BNB. What's more clear than that is that you don't want to translate it into people's language, because we, as a party that we're responsible for, see that we're not pronouncing. But the European Central Bank to want to do stress tests, should now talk about unfinished business clearly! So let everyone in this country do their duty by law! The law must ultimately be above all else. And that is what we call from the opposition. This isn't about the specific deal, about the particular firm. And that's why I'm saying it's not pressure. We say this: the Commission must rule, the Commission can say.. the deal is perfect, the investor is the best, he meets one of the criteria which I have just listed for you, which is something simple for everyone who is in this sector, and then the deal takes place and everything ends. But when you run away from responsibility, we are the opposition who are looking for responsibility, because in this country you have to live by the rules. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u32	Mr. Stoynev, did you sign this signature on May 18, 2008, submitted to the KEWRC? Your signature isn't on the front page, maybe on one of the following pages, I'll check, but you can also answer me. Because you have writtenly asked the regulator not to give consent for the disposal of the property of CEZ Electro Bulgaria................................................................................................ You have put pressure in writing and asked the Commission with your signature and with signatures that you have collected from people who do not know whether they are aware of what they are doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u33	So what? Is that pressure?! Doljan Dobrev: You have requested the Commission in writing, I read it to you again. I read it to you, I read the sentence, I read what you have requested in writing: [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: So what?]] What you are doing right now, Mr. Stoinev, is not trying to get the regulator to implement a certain legal text that you yourself in the KEWRC Commission have admitted is not working. You yourself have admitted that it is not a working text. If it was working, if you hadn't voted in the KEWRC Commission, that the text was not working and should be supplemented, then I understand here you have a claim to the regulator. Only a month ago you said, well, yes, it's not working this text, let's see what we do and make some criteria. For months you can't come up with criteria, and here you read them from the stands! So you read what the criteria should be and two months you didn't bring them in knowing that without criteria this text didn't work! So today's event that you organised is a continuation of this written pressure that you have put on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Nikolov, you're refusing a line. So is Mr. Lazarov. Are there any other lines? The line wants Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoinev, I have to make this line to you, as I remained with the feeling that not all of your claims became clear. I would like you to comment on the following situation: after the National Assembly, the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria, has accepted that the Energy Act is necessary to change, after especially the colleagues of GERB, have changed their position perhaps two or three times from a bill, a committee, a discussion in the Chamber, I recall, we have stopped the discussion and the next day the vote already had 180 degrees in reverse position. They changed this position and the legislative body came to a situation in which the Energy Act added, and you read this text. My question to you is: since it has not become clear since a legislative norm is voted by the National Assembly, is published in the Official Journal of the European Union, should it be respected or should it not be respected? I cannot understand what this interpretation of law is: this legislative norm needs criteria and we cannot apply it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u36	You said it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u37	But when we vote on this thing, Mr. Dobrev, and when you supported it, didn't you know that criteria were needed? [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Now I understand that you didn't understand it at the time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u38	Mr. Boychev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u39	And Mr. Nikolov just said, "I have a special opinion, but I supported this thing. Look, we can debate whether these criteria should be further signed in the Law, whether they should be part of a regulation, how and in what way? However, this does not in any way cancel a legal text that needs to be applied. I don't know what debate we're having, Mr. Stoinev, please explain this thing! ▪ Who can interpret whether to apply a law or not or to apply a rule of law?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Third line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u41	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I object to your thesis on the failure to comply with the law presented in this way. I remind you that in our public domain, unfortunately, there is a paradigm around the court's decisions cannot be commented because the court is independent. Indeed, the court is independent, but its decisions can be commented. The question is: can we comment on a Law that we have drawn up? The question is: can a Law be commented by a body to which we choose and to which the Constitution applies and by our rules when we examine its Annual Report? That authority and its representative shall make their views known on law enforcement. He says: this norm that you have signed and accepted, I cannot apply it. Why would he say that? I won't comment. Whether he was invited in the debates of the Energy Commission, whether he was invited, expressed that opinion, but his opinion was not respected, but he says.................................................................................. Another point is that, here I emphasize this, you do not want to apply the norm, you want the result directly by predicting it. You say: implementation will result in this result, should result in this result. And that's why my colleague Dobrev is very right. You have signed and given instructions even to the authority what to decide. That's why you can't punish law enforcement when he criticizes us! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I apologize, Madam President, I would have ended up with the fact that it is our job to comply and, if we had to, stand up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u42	A hole, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u43	Thank you for your lines. After all, Mr. Kirilov, yesterday Mr. Borisov gave explicit instructions, and you are obliged to follow them. So we do not want to follow this way of working in which you are used to working. It is important for us that the Law be respected, not interpreted. [[GERB lines.]] Indeed he may comment, but he must be executed! Because here it was stated that, you see, I'm talking about Mr. Ivanov, who, by the way, everyone should know, helpfully gave this piece of paper to Mr. Delyan Dobrev through the Quaestors to get it so that he could have this attack on me. Isn't that right, Mr. Ivanov? You're nodding accommodatingly. From now on, let me tell you that we see a perfect interaction between the government and an independent institution that we want to be truly independent and not in this way communication to run. This still shows that indeed the President is not at all independent, but entirely dependent on the government. This is not about any attack, it is about no pressure, it is about the fact that, for example, we wanted to rule, it does not mean that there is pressure. We do not have a prerequisite for the final result and do not say what the final result should be. I've told her many times from this tribune, and I'm going to kill him. Let us say, as is the final result, we will take into account the Commission's expert opinion on energy and water regulation. But, colleagues, look what Mr. Ivanov said. He says public order and national security are not the subject of the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. But before that, he didn't say that de facto in art. 23a they must be pronounced for enterprises with a view to ensuring security of supply. He doesn't say that in his speech here. He's only talking about protecting national security and public order. This is the difference and this is the different interpretation of the Law. I answered a few minutes ago and Mr. Ivanov agreed that he sent you personally on the Quaestors this piece of paper, Mr. Dobrev, so it's clear here. However, this does not in any way mean that there should be pressure on the Commission. Again, because it has already become clear to whom Mr. Ivanov is serving, perhaps more GERB than Bulgarian society, it is important to us: The law must be respected! They have to be pronounced. Is it so difficult for these criteria, which I have just listed to you, to bring the Commission together and purely expert to say exactly what to be, to quantify these criteria with regard to the date, economic and financial situation in the country, because next year will be another or in five years. After all, some such simple things that the Bulgarian Parliament must deal with, because an institution cannot do its job, for us is completely unacceptable, colleagues. That is why we want the law to be respected, I am graduating, Ms. Karayancheva, and not by orders you to vote as you are ordered and to constantly change your mind. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. They wanted a personal explanation for Mr. Dobrev and Mr. Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Boychev, I object to you suggesting to the Chamber that I did not understand a text from the Law. When voting in this House, we will remove the transcript, I told you that this text will not work in this form, that criteria should be added to this text. [[Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria: Why did you vote then?]] We voted to please you. [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] because you claimed that without this text we would try to break, end or release a deal, or anything. Even then, I told you, this is the end of April. What's the date now?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u46	In early July.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u47	Now we're almost mid-July month. Two and a half months you know you have to add to the Law criteria and have not done so. It's simple, put a proposal between first and second readings in some law or initiate a ZID that would have been through this plenary in two and a half months. You know very well that you need to write this text and you didn't intentionally write it so that, on the one hand, you could attack the regulator and put political pressure on it with what you're doing right now, because that's exactly what you're doing, and, on the other hand, nothing happened to the deal so that you could attack the government that it hardly allowed or missed one or another deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Nikolov, come in for a personal explanation. Then for a statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Boychev, since you mentioned me in connection with the incorrect interpretation of what I have said about the vote on these texts, I would like to emphasise the following: these texts were given by the United Patriarchs and not by you. [[Heckling]] And you have since February are the ones who advocate that the deal should not be realized, that in the court, the Bulgarian, it will be terminated, that you will collect signatures, you will submit to the court. I don't know, I guess I'm not a lawyer, maybe there's some weight in deciding on these signatures in court and so on, but you didn't offer any texts. Perhaps those texts that you were going to propose would have been better written in terms of criteria, but you did not propose. You really didn't offer, you weren't active at all in this area when we accepted the changes to the Energy Act. Of course, for this reason, I voted, and I'm not even sure I voted. [[speaking indistinctly]] , but I supported these texts, expecting the opponents of this deal to submit the criteria. You didn't set the criteria, but you agreed that they didn't work. By the way, I finally mention in the conclusion that another such body as BNB, that he did not trust the European Commission, well, who went bankrupt CTB, what time? So maybe they don't trust you?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u50	Mr. Nikolov, I'm asking for a personal explanation to limit ourselves. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for a statement. Excuse me, Mr. Atalay, Mr. Christov was before that, my pass. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Typically in my style and in the style of Volja. I will give a slightly more side-eyed look, because again we started to get lost in the political talking.. the part of my speech, which was rather expert, Mr. Dobrev and Mr. Nikolov said everything I would like to say. What we're all somehow avoiding is paying attention to it, and I'm going to allow myself to do a slight retrospective analysis of the entire situation. In this case, we have a law that does not work, thanks to government or government, or whatever you want to call it, so far. Thanks to this non-acting law, we faced the problem of the deal with CEZ. We tried somehow to take some action quickly and we created committees, hearings, we called everyone in the National Assembly to give us explanations. And since we have not been able to obtain any valid reasons to oppose it, it was the National Assembly, either by any authority of the KEWRC, or anyone else, of this deal as, again, I say, I will not go into details as to whether this deal would be eligible to be controlled by the KEWRC as a private deal, this will leave it to the lawyers, because we have not received any such reason, we have all accepted, including from the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u53	Please, Madam President. ...by accepting it with the clear awareness that it must be completed in this form, in which we say that the KEWRC has the right to stop transactions, it cannot be worked. We expected the Patriots who were importers of this amendment to finish it off. And here I disagree with both Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Dobrev that BSP should submit criteria that we approve. Well, have the Patriots bring it in, if possible. On the other hand, I also disagree with the BSP that the KEWRC should by subnormal act invent the criteria relating to this amendment, which is not functioning anyway. What we will ultimately achieve, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not want to believe it, but obviously that is the goal, is to have a very convenient excuse when the CEZ in a few days settles the deal and it becomes a fact, to have a very convenient excuse and to say: "It is not our fault that we, we made a Law and told CEZ to stop the deal. Ivan Ivanov refused to implement it, and that is why the deal is a fact, but we are not guilty. Again, I don't think he can be made to stop the deal. It's particularly cynical... Yesterday, when we spoke with colleagues in connection with the upcoming debate today, I was convinced that you, Mr. Boychev, would not participate in the debate and I am very surprised that you, as President of the Temporary Committee, who should have said in general, to find something that would give reason, again I say to anyone to oppose this deal, and we know that the Commission did a huge job, but did not find such prerequisites, now we say: well, we didn't find them using all the resources of the state, we listened to all the state authorities and we couldn't deal with it, now we say:.............................we come to come up with something else...................... How do I do that? I don't see how this thing can happen. I don't know why, at the beginning of my speech I expect the Patriots to do this job and give themselves the criteria to give the real instrument in the hands of the KEWRC after they have done their job. They promised people that a tool would be created to stop this deal, promised pensioners 300 leva. A pension and their work did it. It is interesting, however, why we all do not admit that we have become part of this whole pointless attempt to put dust in people's eyes and say: well, yes, we have no reason to stop the deal with CEZ, yes, we have changed the Law, but it should be further worked, if possible, and the Patriots to say how. Colleagues who are in the Energy Commission and the KEWRC Control Commission, we all know very well that in all the debates, and Minister Petkova, and Mr. Ivanov, the only sentence they said in the debates, when we came up with this strategy to stop the deal with CEZ, which can't happen, the only sentence they said is: "It's not working, it won't work. So let's all admit that what we've all voted on is an amendment that can't work and not wash our hands with the KEWRC or with anyone else. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. First line Mr. Kirilov, second line Mr. Veselinov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u55	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, by welcoming your logic and agreeing with a great deal of your reasoning and conclusions, I would like to say what I do not agree with from your speech. I do not agree with you not stressing the role of this attack on the independent regulator. It is clear that both under the previous law and under the current law KEWRC either has, or does not have the powers, the power to end this deal. But in any case, the KEWRC has sufficient information and data to ensure that neither the old nor the new regulatory order can do so. But what's the point? You said: shameful purpose. The aim is to influence this body, to order this body so that it can take that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line Mr. Veselinov, third line Mr. Atalay. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Lazarov, do not influence the MPs on their will to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u57	Dear Mr. Hristov, the only thing I can say is that it's cynical when a moral tone is spoken from the stands of nonsense and some mentoring self-indulgence. The United Patriarchs proposed this bill. He switched to reading, practically the same way he identified the problem as when withdrawing a license. To the extent that the KEWRC is able to withdraw licences on the basis of respect for national security, on the basis of the protection of public interests, respectively guaranteeing supplies, there is so much opportunity for it to use this instrument when approving the transactions. So in this respect, if there is a deficit, it is in many places in the Law, not only that. It is clear that an authority wants everything written down to him, to act under conditions of bound competence. This is not always possible and this is not the task of the United Patriarchs. Moreover, we have proposed texts to further develop the logic of our law, they have been inserted into the Energy Commission, they have been the subject of discussion, and in this respect, that you have not been acquainted with them, is only your omission. Of course, the idea of colleagues from the Energy Commission, rather of the special committee dealing with the KEWRC, was to discuss these texts in the Ministry of Energy and then move on. It was easy for us to bring them into the Chamber and say: "Here, we have finished our work, as you say. My request is: a little humbler and with a little more respect for your colleagues, because unlike your group, we still initiated something, not to stop the deal with CEZ, but to control it and prove that if it happens, if it has to happen in the end, it will not harm the state. That was our goal. For some of your arguments regarding the specific request for the President's resignation, I share them, but the unnecessary pathos in certain directions only shows incompetence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Third line, Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Hristov, I have one question: how did you, your parliamentary group, vote for this bill, the amendment and the supplement? Because I have a feeling that your desire to be clean, unblemished, virgin and hence... and nutritious, seems to me that after a year of presence in this Parliament this posture no longer suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr. Kirilov, you're wrong that I didn't say what the purpose was. It is clear, the aim is for us to wash our hands with the KEWRC. That's it! I'm just saying one sentence. Mr. Veselinov, there is no way we can exercise competence by getting acquainted with something that needs to improve an incompetent created one. Mr. Atalay, we have supported this amendment with the clear awareness that it must be completed. And if you pay attention, that is precisely why we are not currently looking for an account of the KEWRC why it does not comply with the Law, because we realize that it is not complete to be respected. So we wouldn't be supporting her if we knew she was gonna be unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing a decision tabled by BSP colleagues, which, in my opinion, is as fruitless as the amendment and the supplement to the Law that you have tabled. I'm gonna try to do a little flashback on how we got to all this. We arrived one morning when, after BSP's pressure to resign, because there was a deal going on between two private entities, the prime minister subsequently came out and said that there were some gads and there were a number of other circumstances that led us to investigate a private plea deal, and in doing so in time, it turned out that the state wanted 34% of 67%, which CEZ was selling, and these are shares. Then a little more development. GERB then gave up this idea when they realized that they were wrong and would violate the Constitution. So, walking on the floors, taking away the opportunity to get GERB to say whether they know what they know and if they know why they know that this deal exists, BSP did so that they withdrew all responsibility in parliament. They set up a temporary parliamentary committee where the goal was clear that it would be barren because BSP is also a responsible political force and they know that if they cross that threshold, where we will already break the Constitution and it will not be good for the country. Colleagues, it has come to the point that after all that has happened, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev resigned from the management of BSP, but the responsibility for the adoption of this bill is personal to the National Assembly, with the exception of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I was surprised to hear from Mr. Dobrev that they did not agree with this text, but voted for. We, colleagues, disagreed and the DPS did not vote. We have spoken our arguments, and I will repeat them once more. There's no way that when there's a deal between two private entities, the state gets involved. Any State interference, with the adoption of a reverse bill, gives legal basis for both entities to go to court and present their claims. Whether there's a deal or not, they'll get the money they need. That's one side of the question, colleagues. Once again, thank Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, let us make sure that we do not give a political opportunity to one of the parties to use as an argument in arbitration and to save our country from losing around 630 million. Euros. Colleagues, we have made it possible to stop the United Patriarchs in their quest with populism to present to the public that they are almost the purest and can break the Constitution, not to allow such an amendment and an addition in art. 21, t. 23a. However, the desire to present yourself to the public, I will not say populism, was so strong that Mr. Tsvetanov ordered their political formation to adopt such a text. However, once again, to remind you that the text has been withdrawn, has not been adopted by the Commission. Then, I don't see my colleague, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, who, to shine in broad daylight, wrote a text and presented it to the National Assembly. Once again, I say to you: then only the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, with regret, we asked you: colleagues, please do not accept this thing; it is not a text that fits and raises confidence in the National Assembly. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms we said. But you all went into the cauldron together. Now, since you could not deal with the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Iskren Veselinov, my pity for BSP, you decided that the weakest in the chain you can attack and from which you can make certain dividends, turned out to be Mr. Ivan Ivanov. I'm sorry. Mr. Ivan Ivanov may have made a mistake to comment on from this tribune a bill that you have adopted, colleagues who, apart from misunderstandings, have made the state enter into additional financial losses, does nothing else contribute. He dared from this tribune to tell us, colleagues, obey the laws, Mr. Boychev, Mr. Stoynev and all here who are present, observe the rule of law. Mr. Ivan Ivanov told us: create laws that can be respected. You cannot transfer responsibility to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to give opinions and opinions on a transaction where shares are sold. You should have written this text, for example, about the Agency, where they do fishing and toads. [[Laughter, excitement.]] It's not serious, guys, it's not serious! If this text wasn't written like this in late Doba, if there were criteria, and not to wait now for Mr. Ivanov to watch the ceiling whether there will be rain, be good enough to refuse the deal, if there is a sun, he will not refuse. Purely and simply there is no way without criteria, without a law that must come out of here with a clear, final goal... our institutions can apply it. There's no such thing. For this reason, it is incorrect for me, political, it is the demand today to take away the opportunity of an independent Commission, which, for one reason or another, due to circumstances does not create problems for the government or the opposition, because Mr. Ivanov is a technocrat, the people who are in this committee at the moment do not appear as political leaders, because the society stands quietly and quietly because he pays low energy despite the decapitalization of production capacities, which will eventually come to our head again as a boomerang. Therefore, colleagues, I do not want to determine who is guilty, but GERB, BSP, together with the OP, with the so-called United Patriarchs, you have created this chaos and are currently trying how and how to get out of this situation. We talked about the Commission's activities last week very well, enough. Then you adopted the report, all of you voted on this report. Even then, BSP did not have the courage to vote against, I think you abstained. If you want us to raise the authority of the MP and the National Assembly, I may also be populist. I would like to propose a bill: if any Member of the National Assembly, even the Council of Ministers, propose a law or amendments and additions that subsequently contribute damage to the state, to personally bear responsibility for both financial and criminal. Then neither Mr. Iskren Veselinov would submit this bill, nor Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, nor Mr. Tsvetanov would order GERB against their will to vote on such a bill. Therefore, my fellow Members, I think it may have been necessary for such a debate to be given once again to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be able to fulfil their obligations independently. If you want to stop the deal with CEZ and Inercom, then I ask you the question: why, when Energo-Pro sold its shares, didn't you go out and stop the deal with Energo-Pro? If this deal goes to the Stock Exchange alone, then how are you going to stop the sale and the sale of the shares by 10% if it sells them? You go out and say that he took attitude when selling a Trafopost, but it is from the activity, it is for the enterprise itself to not sell parts of it, not the shares, colleagues. The legalists in BSP are very aware of this thing. I am convinced that today and you do not want it, you do not want Mr. Ivan Ivanov's resignation. What you want, colleagues, you will not achieve it this way. There are many splinters for partitioning in GERB. There are many things that have brought people into the country in an inability to be free in thinking and in making decisions. There are things made so that the enterprising are already defined as thieves, and investors are under pressure to be able to serve the government, but this is not the fault of Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Colleagues, let us be at the height of the National Assembly! If we want the National Assembly to have that high confidence that people have voted on us, to respect and to raise the authority of the institutions, especially the independent ones! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, who is not here. Even on this occasion today the conversation about the activities of KEWRC, Mr. Siderov found a way to invite us to Sunday school. As this becomes certain for the sixth or seventh time, especially to me and President Radev, his invitation is very honourable, to reply finally, albeit in connection with this debate. I will immediately go to such a Sunday school, if the first lesson is about the plan Siderov against colonial slavery, in which he writes: "This foreign colonial company is CEZ, as EVN and Energo-Pro, they earn billions a year on the back of the impoverished Bulgarian. I will go to this lesson in his Sunday school if you explain to me how this plan Siderov, while in opposition, performs it now while he is ruling. I will go if he accepts on the agenda of our first lesson with President Radev to include the book The Metamorphosiss of Ovidius, in which he writes: I will tell about bodies converted into new bodies. In this lesson I will immediately go to Mr. Siderov's Sunday school. Now get to the point. Dear colleagues, from the discussion today it will be the impression that the parliament is guilty of not fulfilling its legal obligations and is not pronouncing the deal with CEZ. And, you see, here we beat ourselves up for adopting a bad law that they can't comply with. We will not repeat our legal theses, that there is no bad or good law. The law is implemented. That's clear to everyone. But interesting is the debate between us today. Some of the colleagues from GERB say: "BSP is guilty that we have adopted such a bad law without the criteria. Another part of GERB, however, another member of parliament, says: "The United Patriarchs are guilty because they proposed it. But, you see, GERB had nothing to do with this job, so they voted it out. And here you notice why, a big issue that will probably be innovative in global policy.. GERB voted this law in order to please the opposition! So GERB do not manage to govern Bulgaria in order to make life better so that there is transparency in these transactions.. GERB manage to please the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u66	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u67	An interesting thesis that deserves attention on why and how the state is managed. Finally, the opposition has also received recognition that you are ruling to meet its expectations. This is a matter of principle that deserves discussion. The other suggestion that is being made here today, apart from the fact that the Law is bad, is that there is political pressure on the KEWRC, which is unacceptable. What are you guys arguing about? With Mr. Ivanov's request for resignation from a political party, this was political pressure, as well as with the signatures of 200,000 Bulgarians. I am curious: why did none of you mention an argument in defence of Mr. Ivanov? And it is that yesterday, the employers' organizations, "AES Bulgaria" and "Contour Global Maritsa East" Association, "Hydro" Association, "Bulgarian Photovoltaic Association" and the three companies "EVN Bulgaria" and "ENERGO-PRO" and "CHEZ Group Bulgaria" stood as one in the protection of Mr. Ivanov. And that's not considered pressure! So 200,000 Bulgarians to say freely their opinion is pressure, a political party to ask for implementation of the Law is pressure, and those whose profit depends on the decisions of the KEWRC to decide on this dispute and to defend the KEWRC is not pressure! All of this you have formed under the loud title Why does everyone in the business love Ivan Ivanov and Cornelia and Maya not? Answer yourself why. Is it not a conflict of interest, honourable Members, when companies whose activities and profits depend on the decisions of the supposedly independent body, standing behind it and praising it for its activities? You don't care about that either, you don't mention it at all. What mind could come up with this thing?! And the most open-minded person who listens to us will understand what this is all about. The big ones in the industry stand behind the KEWRC 200,000 signatures of consumers and the National Assembly has no meaning because it was pressure! Look, please, these big ones, what they're allowing themselves to say. They say they speak for all users! In the last three years, KEWRC has earned the respect of business as an independent regulator defending the interests of all users. So the companies that make the requests, the KEWRC, which raises their prices intransparently on this we already have a pronouncement of different bodies, they allow themselves to speak on behalf of the users, and all consumers, in defence of the authority responsible! Is this today your hundredth pressure on an independent body, politically? Make the difference between one and the other.. users against big business. Your third argument?? How will the state interfere with a deal between two private entities? We've been listening to this for three months or more since the CEZ Commission worked. And there are no criteria in which the state is to rule, and in this case the KEWRC is to rule. Dear colleagues, you forget that there is a law, a Decree No 181 in which it says which activities and which objects are relevant for national security, and a Constitution in which it says that the state cares for national security. In these laws and decrees, which are the work of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, it says, for example, that I will not spell them out for long and long that the transfer of electricity is an element of national security. Why do you deny the constitutional obligation of the state and government to take care of national security? Mr. Ivanov says: "There are no criteria, one of the criteria is national security in the Law. He claims that it wasn't written anywhere. There is also a decree, and the Law, and it states that this activity is an element of national security, respectively the state has its functions there. All three of your arguments find no reason at all! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] I said I wouldn't read it all, colleagues, because it's very long I have it, I'll give you Order No 181. In conclusion, do not pour ashes on your head that the Law we have adopted is bad. Do not try to transfer this responsibility to the opposition, because you are increasingly confirming the view that the opposition is ruling, and you are simply voting to please it. Colleagues, we have adopted the Law. Everyone, there is no GERB here, Patriots, we have all adopted it by majority, it is voted. The Commission must implement this law! If the criteria are not clear to her, she has the power to make a legislative act, as she has made many regulations specifying the procedures on which she will rule! The Commission has not done its job, and the government has not done its job, because before us Mr. Ivanov said: "I asked for external legal assistance and at this stage I was not given one to clarify the criteria by which we will pronounce ourselves! Why have you not provided legal assistance to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission? Was it intentional or accidental? Government and the KEWRC are not doing their job. The MPs are guilty because the Law did not give them reason! We absolutely disagree with this thesis! We definitely disagree with you to divide things in this way - Bulgarian consumers, if they want something, is pressure; the big players interested in their profits on the back of the Bulgarian people, as Volen Siderov says, when they pronounce it, it is not pressure! If there was nothing else in this dispute, only to bring forth the letter of all the players in the energy sector in defence of the Commission, which protected the interests of society, is enough for the most impartial person to understand what this is about. This is about the unwillingness of the executive and the KEWRC to fulfil their legal obligation because they want to cover up the deal with CEZ, behind which are private interests supported by the government of Boyko Borisov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a line. Then I will give the floor for a personal explanation to Mr. Siderov. Let's finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u69	Dear Mrs. Ninova, I think that you can take today into account for successful media will write, for example: It's good for party use. I will not interfere with the issue of World Empireism, which you are debating with Mr. Siderov. I don't know if you're jealous of him in this fight or jealous of him or willing to compete. I want to say two basic things. First, we are talking about whether the Law is good or bad. The Law must be implemented and I think that in this regard we are all of the same. The question is: has the time come to implement the Law? [[Radio, laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this regard, it is what you owe to clarify. Can you convict a man before he commits a crime? Has the actual composition entered into force in order for the Commission to enter into its powers? I don't think so. Until it comes to a practical deal, until all the other obstacles before this deal are overcome, as has been said here and the KPC, the Commission should not be pronounced because we actually have a series of brakes. The Commission will be the last instance that will say "to" or "not" to this deal based on national security, consumer protection and so on. In this regard, I think your lawyers have misled you and you are bringing in a legal nothing just to make noise. Secondly, once again, your experts have misled you "don't confuse transmission with distribution, very please, there is a significant difference. In my opinion, it is also a deficit in this decree, and it must be expanded, but you are still based in your conclusions on things that are not related to the subject. That's what I want to mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Second line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I also wanted to clarify that in the report of the Temporary Commission which examined the transaction, it was in the conclusions that such distribution companies should also enter into this decree. I mean, it's not a fact right now. What you're talking about is not the electrosystemic operator that is a state-owned company, that is, there is no deal, that is, it is not an object of national security. In fact, there is no point in convincing us that it is not political pressure. As you mentioned, I did not know that so many organizations and employers and companies on whom the KEWRC's decision depends have expressed their opinion. Of course, they have the functionality and structure to react, they have their organizations to be able to react to anything that happens. Everyone needs a stable independent body. True, consumers can react by themselves, but they do not have the organizations created to say........................................... The point is that the body must be independent and must be balanced. The very fact that since 2015, gas as a price that is a KEWRC decision has fallen by 33% is hardly detrimental to consumers. Of course it's good for both business and consumers, and they want a low price on gas. The fact is that employers want a lower price for heating, water, electricity, because they consume this energy! There is nothing wrong with them too are consumers, of course, bigger than domestics. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But in the end, they are consumers, and having expressed an opinion that there is no logic in asking for the President's resignation, I think that is an indicative fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Third line, Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u73	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Ninova, you have finished your speech with a mantra that you have been letting into the public domain since January. You asked for a temporary committee of inquiry, and there was a chairman of you. The Commission concluded with one conclusion. This mantra, this bubble you're blowing, has nothing to do with what you're talking about, the Borisov government was behind the deal with CEZ. Absolutely! Well, the consequences of this conclusion have seen them from the Commission's work. Everyone here said you did a lot of work. Last week, you gave a grandstand concerning the chairman of this committee. Secondly, political pressure. You see, consumers had no right, so some had the right to express their opinion, others had no right because they were in business. Ms. Ninova, you, yours is political pressure. All these business organizations, whatever you want organizations, do not have the constitutional right to submit a request for the resignation of the President of the KEWRC. You have that right, and you have taken advantage of it by submitting a signature and forcing the KEWRC to break the deal that is your request. Well, what if it's not political pressure?! But the organ was independent, but he had to decide to break the deal. Yes, you have that right, and here's the question: why? A moment ago, one of the speakers mentioned that the KEWRC was a rubber stamp. This is not a request, perhaps it is an answer to the question why you want the KEWRC to break the deal and because in one form or another I will not stop can the amendments of the Law apply, can they not, but why do you want the resignation of the President of KEWRC to break the deal? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The answer is: not rubber, gold stamp you want to become KEWRC. I'll repeat it: gold, I'll triple it: a gold seal you want to become a KEWRC Perhaps for the benefit of another country or for the benefit of some other participants. I guess you guys know a part of you well what it's all about. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u75	Dear colleagues, in line with the lines. What we do, whether for the benefit of the party or party members, was the first line. My question is: those over two million clients of CEZ, are they all members and sympathizers of BSP? If so, the situation in this Parliament would be different. So, when something affects two million Bulgarians and you say: "What you are doing is your party work." At least it does not correspond to any facts. Is the second line the time to implement the Law? This is another contribution to the jurisdiction not only in Bulgaria, surely also in the world. The National Assembly, which writes the laws, commented inside the National Assembly whether the time has come to implement these laws. We'll get into world history with that position. [[Heckling]] All over the world, the law comes into force at the moment it is published and the question is: has it come to the moment, and it shows not only a low legal culture, but a political interest. Thirdly, until the deal is done, the Commission shall not pronounce. Such an argument reverses the entire discussion we have had so far. So far, your thesis was:........................................................................................................ the deal is not possible to be ruled because the law is............................................................................................................................................. Once the deal is done, why do we need the Commission to pronounce it? With that sentence, you've shown your true intentions. You don't have a bad law, and the Commission will wait for us to end this kind of scam, and then let it be pronounced as it pleases. Fourth argument in the lines: you did not know that the big business or, at all, the business that represents this sector stands behind Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Mrs. Karayancheva, my accusation is with you. Why keep this work a secret from your colleagues from GERB? The letters, honourable ones, which you replicated, that we have submitted in writing and officially, and they, you see, are not, have been submitted to you in the National Assembly, to Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, and from there to all groups. Why she didn't distribute them to you by GERB is her business. They've reached us. What prevents us from saying that the big business interested in this deal is putting pressure on the MPs by writing us in writing not to accept the resignation. Come on, with your argument on your heads. So when consumers submit a letter to the KEWRC, they put pressure on it. When the business submitted letters to the National Assembly to influence the MPs in the vote, you see, it wasn't pressure. Come on, if we can, the whole thing with the same arsin, we can measure both of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u76	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u77	Finally, we do so in the interests of other participants or countries. We will not tire out, no matter how much you lie, repeat: our only interest is the Bulgarian state to buy CEZ if the owner sells it. We want to break this deal, a new procedure and the Bulgarian state... [[The National Representative Cornelia Nino continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Time's up. Mr. Siderov, for a personal explanation. While Mr. Siderov is coming, just to say that I receive the letters and distribute them to all the parliamentary groups, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Personal explanation. I know you're reading the plan, and you're copying it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You cheat on him, regularly! The plan "Siderov" is a very good plan and it is the election program of the party "Attack" written in 2013. The same year you aired a prime minister. But I'll go back a little further when you were Deputy Minister of Economy and Energy. During all these years I could not understand Mrs. Nino, are you criticizing me or pointing out my role in Bulgarian politics through the plan "Siderov" because if you criticize me you have nothing to do with it. I continue to argue that Bulgaria has been colonised and that the ERP contracts must be terminated. That's what I've been saying over the years. But you as Deputy Minister of Economy and Energy and Coalition Partner of the NDSV, who actually sold for free the ERPs, did nothing. You co-coaled with those who sold the ERPs for pennies to three foreign companies, state, municipal. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They're not private either. It was called privatization in a very perverse way, it was actually colonization. And that is why I wrote the plan "Siderov" so that people like you can read and learn. Especially to you, I promise to increase the number of classes in Sunday school so that we can really, when we come here, be prepared. One has to be prepared. And I continue to consider what I think so far: "Attack" was not mentioned by the Bulgarian people as a ruling party and I cannot criticize it. GERB was mentioned. We in coalition with GERB do enough and possible. Politics is an art of the possible to move things in the direction of Bulgarian interest. If the Bulgarian people decide one day to be the ruling party and I Prime Minister, then we will sit on the plan. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And we're going to do it point by point. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. I can't give you a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova. You had mentioned Mr. Siderov and he correctly came out to make a personal explanation. Mr. Dobrev's statement. The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I turn to you for your silence, when Mr. Siderov came here as a god, rewarded the chariot justice and left. But he gave justice, insulting the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u82	In what way?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u83	I quote: so that people like you can read my plan, Siderov, as he has [[strong noise and lines from GERB and OP]] And so on and so forth. Look at the transcripts. You didn't even comment on this cynical behavior, it's your duty. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u84	Mr. Popov, the debate was going very well and very calmly. Please calm the passions! Mr. Lazarov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u85	Dear Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u86	Only in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u87	Yeah, you got the line. Call on your colleagues, however, to listen not only to one speaker but also to others talking. [[Noise and lines.]] The fact that some have not read anything, and some other expressive leaders have read someone's plan, please let this not be a basis for remarks. Well, if you want to read it, read it if you want to, don't read it! Obviously, someone from your party is reading this plan. It's more readable. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. In the manner of holding Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I'm addressing you for two reasons. The first, please do not allow Members of the National Assembly to be disrespectful. They can't underestimate and think it's an insult to read or read. You cannot also, Madam President, and I am calling you in the bud when someone is attempting to abuse procedures, to urge Members of the National Assembly not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Dobrev, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! We are witnessing unprecedented political pressure from the opposition to an independent body in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u92	Louder, Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u93	I do not know if any other time there has been such a discussion in plenary and such a procedure to remove any independent regulator, but what is happening today is, in my opinion, a precedent. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u94	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u95	Once again, I repeat: a precedent that represents unprecedented political pressure from the opposition on an independent regulator. In the last three years, we have not heard a single expert in this country expressing critically the role, functions and performance of the regulator's duties. On the contrary, all the experts in Bulgaria, all politicians from all political parties, colleagues from the Energy Commission from BSP, colleagues from the DPS repeatedly in the Commission, before the media, before their colleagues, before the public have declared support for the Commission's actions, to the independence of this committee and to the work it does. [[Applause from GERB.]] Moreover, there are written documents from the European Commission, which praise the work of the regulator in Bulgaria and declare it independent. They congratulate the Bulgarian Parliament for choosing such an independent regulator [[Applause from GERB]] and give a recommendation to this independent regulatory authority of their choice and functions to be given financial independence, which we did a few months ago. The regulator is now also financially independent, except independent from the influences of politicians. This is your problem because in Bulgaria there is a truly independent regulator that you cannot manipulate. You put out letters writing to the regulator how to pronounce it. You have imported 200,000 signatures to put pressure on this independent regulator. And since this independent regulator did not succumb to all your pressure, you continued with the pressure of today's plenary discussion. It's part of your script to press the regulator. I am not only convinced that the regulator will not succumb to any pressure, I am convinced that the plenary will not allow you to put any political pressure on it. And because you quoted opinions from employers' organizations, I will also quote them to you because I think they have said it most precisely. The Association of Organizations of Bulgarian Employers, for clarity, I say: In this Association are the four employers' organizations in Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Applause from GERB]] It's both domestic and industrial. In this sense, we are against attempts to attack one of the working authorities in the country because of the work that your employers write:.... because of close and personal political interests and ambitions..................................................................................... [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] There's no telling you more clearly than that. Your employers have said that because of your own, I quote again: you will ruin an independent regulator that has proven itself with its work over the past three years. You also mentioned an opinion of the employers in the energy sector, that is, the large energy enterprises that also spoke in support of Ivan Ivanov. Do you know why they spoke in support of Ivan Ivanov? Because 2015 you left the energy down. It's collapsing! Eight hundred million leva tariff deficit a year! For the first time in the history of Bulgaria's energy 2015 some companies have drawn loans to pay salaries! Energy producers had not received their money for six, eight, ten months and so on. Out of fear of returning that time these energy enterprises came with protection not personally to Ivan Ivanov, but to the independence of the regulator. They protect the independent regulator, not Ivan Ivanov's personality! If you read their opinion carefully, you will see this too. To conclude, I want to tell you that I do not want to be very specific, I think that my thesis has become sufficiently clear. Before I graduated, the employers also wrote to you the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRB), the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria (AICB) They tell you that, not me. I told you that, and they tell you that! He had a accumulated debt of 800 million. lv. in 2015 for only one year. They also tell you: these funds were paid by the Bulgarian business, along with interest rates through the price debt to society. Therefore, the Bulgarian employers say: we will declare against and declare against your will with regard to pressure on the regulator and its change. The last thing I want to say to you is that some Members in the Chamber have tried to be emotional about what I have noticed is that spiteful and destructive rhetoric does not raise your ratings, it brings it down. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u97	First of all, Mr. Dobrev, you forgot that you had strikes and the miners were aiming at you with snowballs. You forgot very well that the mines didn't even work. You forgot very well that it was the RES sector that you introduced that was the main reason for this huge imbalance in the sector. Energy is now so good that the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH) cannot collect on the road show money to co-finance the bonds that the interest rate is much worse than that than the state interest rate of sovereign bonds in seven years. You really forgot what happened to you because we had to save him. Because if it wasn't for us to put an end to the cases against Bulgaria for your reasons in the sector,............................ and you know very well.. are all our merits. [[Noise and lines.]] You forget things very easily, but people remember them. Don't talk about how energy was, because we've never opened our mouths! Because the European Commission, what was happening in both electricity and gas, is thanks to us. Who created the balancing market? Who set up the power exchange? Because that, the chaos you had created, was really under any criticism! Because the whole system was full of corruption! And you know it very well! We were supposed to be saving everything you left behind. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line? [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] You don't have time for 17 seconds, Mr. Popov. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any other lines? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, for 17 seconds, here you go. I'll be strict! [[Noise and lines.]] Without addressing me, speak directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u99	I'm gonna make my point. Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Dobrev, you said that pressure was a precedent. It is a precedent that an independent regulator, an authority, does not want to comply with the Law! It's a precedent. The law you voted for! Because, obviously, for you, it's a desktop book... [[(The President Tsveta Karayancheva turns off the microphones. Say: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u100	Time! Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your rigour and accuracy of the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u102	That's how I feel about everyone, Mr. Popov. [[(Shouting:) Aah! BSP for Bulgaria. Noise and lines.)]] And I gave you a few more seconds before that. Any other lines? A hole, Mr. Dobrev? [[Noise and lines.]] Who's got a line? Mr. Tsvetanov has a line. [[Noise and lines.]] I was distracted by the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u103	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Dobrev! You were very diplomatic, but what was said in the question they asked you is that they saved Bulgaria or the energy from what they did in their management mandate. Eight hundred million leva, is that a fix-up? Co-operative Commercial Bank (CCB) and three and a half billion is this a fix? [[Applause from GERB.]] You raised the deficit to 5.5% and now we have a surplus in the budget because of the policy made by the ruling majority and the independence we have given to the authorities in Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's finish the procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be. But only in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u105	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u106	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u107	You interrupted colleague Philip Popov at the 12th second, and this is a good reason to give you a line in the manner of conduct. And Mr. Tsvetanov made a line to Mr. Dobrev, speaking of KTB. Mr. Dobrev didn't say a word about KTB, he didn't say a word about 800 million... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u108	Maybe now he'll tell. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u109	...for the management of the BSP... [[Noise and lines.]] You didn't interrupt him. You didn't interrupt him! Let's keep the rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u110	That's a line that's addressed to the unspeakable.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u111	...to Philip Popov and to Mr. Tsvetanov! Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u112	Mr. Tsvetanov finished in 35 seconds. [[Loud noise, laughter and lines.]] Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor.]] Now, Mr. Tsonev, I saw you. I saw you, but I'd like to calm the room down a bit. Mr. Tsvetanov's statement ended in 35 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u113	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u114	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u115	The way you're led.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u117	Mr. Tsvetanov's line had nothing to do with the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u118	At first there was. [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u119	It had nothing to do with it! Yes, at the beginning: "Dear Madam Chairman, Dear Mr. Dobrev!." That's what we had in common! [[Laughter and lines.]] And you should have made a remark to him! I understand that this is difficult for you, because after all... [[Loud noise, laughter and lines.]] However, you should have made another remark to him: not only is it not on the subject, it is also false the content of the reply, because the billions and percentages of gross domestic product for KTB banks returned them. Contact Menda Stoyanova and the Finance Minister to tell you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u120	You're not talking to me now, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u121	I am now disproveing the infidelity of his claim to prove to you why you had to make him a note. So let me develop my thesis! [[Noise and lines.]] Not only did you pay them back, but the budget is on a nominal profit from the interest on the loan that you gave to the Deposit Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u122	Mr. Tsonev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u123	This is not a minus of the previous government, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u124	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u125	Madam President, another time, even if it is Mr. Tsvetanov, please follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A hole by Mr. Dobrev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, it's my turn. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't know why Mr. Stoinev recognized what I said and it became so heated to write words, because I didn't understand the meaning of the words that were said, but I will say it again. I didn't criticize Mr. Stoynev, I described the condition in which we found the energy. lv. a tariff deficit, i.e. 800 million. lv. Loss for the year, 800 million lv.! I forgot to mention to you that there were three arbitration cases thanks to that time and the management of the KEWRC, three arbitration cases from the three ERPs against the state, which our ERPs sued for billions of euros because of actions at that time; that there were times when at 10 months you had not paid electricity producers because there was no way to cover this tariff deficit of 800 million. lv.That the National Electricity Company lost, if I'm not mistaken, over 500 million. lv. in 2015; that the National Electricity Company is on a profit now; that the money in energy is becoming more and more. And you know how? With reforms, not with an increase in the price of electricity. Reforms! Because for the last four years, listen well, in the last four years, the price of electricity on the regulated market has been increased by 3.6%. Do you know how much that makes? On an average of 0.9% per year, if in four years the increase is 3.6%. That is, the return of stability, the balance in energy is not at the price of an increase in the price of electricity, but after reforms, which reduced costs, increased revenues, created the Energy Security Fund, liberalized the market over 70% of the electricity in Bulgaria is currently being sold on the free market. The regulated market is only 30%. I declare to all Members of the National Assembly as Chairman of the Energy Commission that, if it had not been for support, the Commission's expertise on energy and water regulation, perhaps we would not have done as well as we have done. And not only that, they apply the liberalized model and the reforms that we, as the National Assembly, did in the Energy Act. It is therefore unfortunate that I have forgotten the position of employers, but I will quote them from memory because of personal and close party and political ambitions to attack the independent regulator. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'm not going to read the draft decision, it was read correctly by Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the draft decision for early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as a member and chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Vote 191 MPs: 63, against 125, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u129	Dear Members of Parliament, we begin our work on the next item on the agenda. I ask the Quaestors to urge the Members of the National Assembly to attend the Chamber. We're starting work on: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPANIES WITH A SPECIAL INVESTIONAL TARGET. We will hear a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u130	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act No 854-01-56, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. At a meeting held on 28 June 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives: the Ministry of Finance, Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and the Association of Companies with Special Investment Purposes, Mr. Manu Moravenov, Chairman; of the Bulgarian Association of Managing Companies, Mr. Petko Krastev, Chairman; of the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators Radoslava Maslarska, Chairman. The Act on Special Investment Purpose Companies, which regulates the securitisation of real estate and cash receivables in the Republic of Bulgaria, was adopted by the National Assembly in 2003. Despite the positive impact on the financial sector in the country and the validation of the special investment purpose companies as a means with undisputed advantages for the expansion of investment opportunities, there is an alarming trend of stagnation in their development. The annual activity report of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2016 indicates that the assets of the special investment purpose companies carrying out real estate securitisation decreased by 13% in 2015 and by the end of 2016 to 1,412.6 million. lv. The real estate market and construction in Bulgaria need support in the current economic situation. Special investment firms may serve as an alternative source of funding both through the public offering of securities to investors and through the creation of appropriate business partnerships. The current law prohibits those companies from investing in other companies than up to 10 per cent of their capital in service companies, including those whose main activity is real estate and construction, thus deprived of this type of financing and greater efficiency of its participants. The bill provides for the possibility that one third of the company's assets can be invested in other companies operating on the real estate market on the territory of the country. Participation in such companies is mutually beneficial.. creates an opportunity for greater specialization in a selected market segment, better market positions and to attract additional capital resources without the use of loan funds while creating an opportunity for diversification of investments. The liberalisation of the investment restrictions of special investment companies, securitisation real estate, will lead to a serious economic impact on the real estate market and financial markets, as well as on the Bulgarian economy as a whole. In order to ensure that the focus of the activities of special investment firms remains unchanged, the requirement that no less than 50 percent of the assets of the special investment purpose entity, securitisation real estate, are invested in the main subject of activity shall be introduced. In order to avoid both the chain participation of special investment purpose companies in other special investment purpose companies and the concentration risk, it is envisaged that such an investment type should be limited to 10 per cent within the total limit of one third of the assets. The special investment purpose companies, securitisation receivables, from their very origin, have low performance in Bulgaria. At the end of 2013, the total number of authorised special investment firms is 66, of which 58 are for real estate securitisation and only 8 are for securitisation of claims of which 4 are active. The current law imposes restrictions on the type of claims that can be securitised. Claims must be to local persons and shall not be subject to a legal dispute or subject to enforcement by a third party. The bill provides for the requirement that claims which may be securitised are not subject to a legal dispute to be dismissed. The income, albeit delayed over time, which generates such types of receivables, may prove to be even greater, relevant to its yield price, as it is usually discounted. On the other hand, the Bill introduces requirements for disclosure of information regarding investments to ensure the appropriate transparency and awareness of the assets of a securitisation and the risk they bear. A requirement is introduced for special investment purpose companies, securitisation receivables, to invest at least 75 percent of their assets in the purchase and sale of receivables. With regard to the minimum investment threshold requirements in the main business line for both types of special investment firms, a period of two years has been granted in order to meet them. With regard to the special investment firms welded in order to ensure a level playing field, a transitional provision delaying the fulfilment of this requirement by 2020. The Law also provides for companies with a special investment objective to invest in the Member States of the European Union or in another State that is part of the European Economic Area; it is possible for the company to continue to exist as a public company after a decision of shareholders to terminate the special investment purpose company's regime; it is possible for companies with special investment purpose to use bank products and accounts in banks other than the depositary bank; it is proposed to waive the obligation to assess the assets held by the special investment purpose company under certain exceptional circumstances. The proposed amendments and additions to the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act will create the necessary prerequisites for the further development of the financial markets and the country's economy as a whole. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Investment Companies, No 854-01-56, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20.06.2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Mr. Kanev will now head towards the stand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act No 854-01-56, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 4 July 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act. The proposed amendments aim at greater flexibility in investment in securitisation real estate companies and an increase in the range of assets that may be subject to securitisation in securitisation receivables companies. It is envisaged that special investment firms may invest in the Member States of the European Union or in another country belonging to the European Economic Area. It allows companies to use banking products and accounts in banks other than the depositary bank. It is proposed to waive the obligation to assess assets held by special investment purpose companies under certain exceptional circumstances due to the undue burden on the costs of annual revaluation of their properties or receivables, especially where the cost is close to the amount or even greater than the economic benefit realised by the property or claim concerned. Next, it is possible for companies with a special investment purpose to participate in real estate development projects or in the purchase of large real estate sites through the creation of special companies. The draft also provides for the possibility for the special investment purpose company to cease to be such a company but to continue to exist in cases where shareholders have decided to terminate the special investment purpose company's regime, the so-called refusal of a licence. Written opinions in support of the Bill and with specific remarks on some texts were received by the Bulgarian Industrial Association, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators and Association of Special Investment Companies. The opinions received by the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission include serious concerns and general reservations under the Bill. It is noted that amendments to the legal framework of the activities of special investment firms should be made following a thorough analysis of market conditions and in compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017, which are to be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act No 854-01-56, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Will there be an importer's opinion? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is quite normal to have an importer's opinion in order to understand really the main motives for this bill, so our expectations are also to speak, but even more bizarre are the opinions that are received under this bill, because the truth is that we all want the development of the capital market and, of course, we are doing everything necessary for its development, all the more so that we have even united in specific bills so that indeed business can feel our support. But there is a bill here that we are currently looking at, which passes in committees, but also challenges the relevant debates, which we, as MPs, cannot pass lightly. Just a few minutes ago, the government was talking about how laws were voted, but, you see, these laws were supposed to be revised, they weren't clear enough. Then I ask: why do we vote them? At the moment, it seems that exactly such a bill is on the agenda, and I will be interested in, honourable rulers, how you will vote, because the truth is that this bill, even in the Commission, has become clear that it needs to be revised and revised, that is, what requires this haste and right now the Bill, when we have a huge opinion from the Financial Supervision Commission that says that such a bill will be tabled by the Commission itself, agreed with absolutely everyone and that there are specific remarks on this bill that is now being tabled. More than that, colleagues. If the Commission is an independent body, you do not contact it, you do not comply with its opinion, see what the Ministry of Finance writes under this bill: This is not said by the opposition, this is said by the Ministry of Finance, respectively you will now adopt a bill with the clear awareness that it will have to be revised in two months, something more Until when? What is the point of such legislation? Someone needs to get out there and explain what's the hurry! Because ultimately we have institutions like the Financial Supervision Commission, an independent institution that does not accept this bill at this stage. The Ministry of Finance in bureaucratic language tells you that this bill must be revised and there will surely be another revision. Then why are we doing this now? Or do you want us to have another debate here that we're going to be doing repairs again, or maybe looking for something lobbying? I don't know. We need someone to come out here and explain. After all, we do not see representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we hear about working groups. When there's a rush, there's debate, and then we wonder why the mutual accusations begin, why do we adopt similar bills that we'll then process? Finance says it in a straight text. We, as opposition, will support all laws that are cleared, which are good for the Bulgarian economy, which are not lobbying, which will support absolutely everyone in order to have free competition. You'll always get our support. When serious institutions, such as the Financial Supervision Commission and the Ministry of Finance, give their notes and believe that now is not the time to revise this bill, that there is a need for such a bill, we are all aware. But when in a hurry, it raises doubts. So the most normal thing is not to rush into this bill, to see the exact and specific notes, to wait for the competent authorities to say their opinion and to adopt legislation, which, again, I say, do not change the change. What's it to you? If you don't respect institutions, you don't respect your own Ministry of Finance, it's another matter. If you think it is incompetence, then well, say: The Finances do not understand anything, we understand best and therefore propose this bill. But they clearly say: "Serious concerns, principle reserves, and we believe that it is necessary to address them. No opposition will do your job! If you can't do well, then you have to explain why this haste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u136	Mr. Stoynev, I understand that your speech on this point is provoked by the previous debate. I would therefore like to state here, in front of the entire Chamber, that in the previous debate I did not refer to Mr. Stoinev and I did not have any criticism of him. I'm saying this officially in front of everyone. My criticism was more about previous compositions of the regulator, which, with their regulatory activity, allowed such deficits. These deficits are not resolved by the Minister, they are not created, they are not terminated by the Minister. So I didn't mean Mr. Stoinev. That's what I'd like to say officially in front of everyone to calm him down, including the stenogram. With regard to this bill and the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission, you know that in each opinion ministries and committees give comments, give editorial remarks, offer suggestions on how to change the texts between first and second readings. That's exactly what this is about. For each bill, when we request any commission from the ministry concerned to give an opinion on the bill, they shall send an opinion saying that they support or do not support in principle. In this case, both opinions support in principle, but they say: "We have the following comments and comments on the texts. To be quite calm, Mr. Stoinev, it is not about further or new changes after two or three months, it is about a working group which, between first and second reading, will make relevant comments to the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission. That is why yesterday there was a working group with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, of the Capital Market Development Council, of the Budget Commission. I was there myself. The working group specified most of the texts. I understand your concerns. Where there are comments from a ministry, they must be taken into account and taken into account before the second reading and will be taken into account. As you yourself mentioned, on the topic of capital markets, we have all recorded in our election programmes that we will support the development of the capital market. Therefore, in this case, I suggest that you take part in this group, if you want to, together, make the changes between the first and second readings that have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Next up is a second line from Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u138	My fellow Member, I have a proposal for your parliamentary group to become a member of all the committees so that you can do our work otherwise, as they say, we are stuck, we cannot do any work. That, of course, in the circle of the joke. I mean, there's no rush with this bill. You're creating the wrong feeling. This is a Bill which has been prepared as early as 2013 and in all these years it has been updated, but has not seen the light of day, because no MP has undertaken to bring it into Parliament and to consider committees and plenary. The institutions in question, for which this bill and this capital market were obviously not a priority, had other priorities, perhaps really more important. For example, the first half was the European Presidency in question. By putting this bill on the table today, we want to solve a problem that you all recognise exists in the regulation and which hinders the development of the capital market. Such is the trend in Europe. In Europe, a few years, you know, there are very long and very irrigation debates and they don't become so fast, and decisions are being sought to stimulate the capital market. Especially since the crisis, it has been noted that Member States' economies are extremely dependent solely on bank financing and that diversification should be sought by stimulating capital markets. We are not making a revolution with these texts, we are making a few small steps that can help and initially give some minimal impetus to this market. Yesterday there was a task force, quite long. There were five people from the Ministry of Finance, specialists in this area, and we reached consensus almost all texts. All my colleagues know that I am a man who respects the opinion of the experts in the executive power, because that is their job. They are aware of all European legislation, with European trends. They shall participate in the committees of the European Union. They are the people who can give concrete, accurate texts so as to achieve the goal without damaging the interest, in the case of those who invest in the capital market or the state. Accusing us in haste, in lobbying, this is already very common with this lobbying, but a little too much on this subject, it seems to me to be put into those cases where there is no such thing....................................................................... Welcome to the Committee on Budget and Finance at second reading so that you can understand exactly what this is about and assess whether this is useful or harmful.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. That was a second line. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Dobrev! This law has indeed been on the agenda for a long time, and when it is imported, it is normal to agree with all institutions. When it is agreed with the institutions and at the same time the institutions in the case of a submitted bill have notes, then there is a problem. If, for example, the law was written yesterday and submitted today, I understand. Since there are notes, there is therefore tension between institutions. Yesterday, it showed up in the Economic Commission. I don't know if there was any problem in the Budget and Finance Committee, but in the Economic Commission, I noticed that there was some tension between the institutions. In order for there to be no such tension between the institutions, we, as a constructive opposition, wanted this bill to enter into the form it was in and as quickly as possible to be adopted because business needs such a bill. For this area, especially for the financial part, for the capital market, you know very well that we support the proposals and help with what we can, as Dobrev mentioned and for energy, but this is quite another topic, because there solutions happen when there is coordination, when there is a clear road map. Here, when there are such opinions from two institutions, we can doubt, you do not take this right away from the opposition and question the question, that is why we are voting abstention, so we will vote abstention. You take part in the Commission, make the best proposal. Thank you for inviting me. Obviously, if we hadn't called, you wouldn't have invited us to the Commission. We will participate, and I promise you, we will be constructive. The fact is that there is a need for such a bill and it is good for all institutions to be united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, No 854-01-56, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. They voted 123 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, 20 abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a procedure. The period between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, No 854-01-56, shall be 11 days by 16 July inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal to extend the deadline until 16 July, including between first and second readings of the newly adopted bill. They voted 126 MPs: 124, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The deadline is until 16 July inclusive. We continue our work on the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTANCE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX. Mr. Kirilov, come in a new § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u144	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28c: supposed to be at least one of the following: Article 3 is replaced by the Publishing of a protocol Art. 142a. The minutes of an open hearing shall be published on the court's website within 14 days of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u145	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 28c. Vote 113 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u146	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33a: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 a sentence second is created: In case of silent refusal of the administrative authority a copy of the judgment shall be sent to the competent authorities under art. 307.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u147	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the new § 33a. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u148	Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 41a: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1. In para. 1 after the word "unlawful' the law of the European Union shall be added. 2. In para. 2 after the word "responsibility" shall be added by para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u149	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 41a, which has just been read by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 115 MPs, for 102, against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 43a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u151	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 43a. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! With this we have exhausted the discussion and votes of the deferred texts in the first part of the Report under the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. I proceed to Part Two Report, which is an extension of Part One. According to § 64 the text of the importer, there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 64, is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 64, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Article 217 is amended as follows: ? Viewing of the case Art. 217. (1) The case shall be dealt with by a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court where the decision is given by an administrative court and by a five-member body where the decision is given by a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court. (2) The five-member Chambers of the Supreme Administrative Court shall examine the case in open meetings which shall be appointed by order of the President of the Court, his alternates or a designated Judge. Where the cassation instance is the only court, the case shall be dealt with in open court. The case shall be dealt with by a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court in closed session, unless the Judge-Rapporteur ordering the case to be dealt with in open court. The order is not subject to appeal. Where a party requests, at the latest, that the case be dealt with in a cassation complaint or in response to a cassation action in open court, it shall be dealt with in that order. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u153	Quiet, please! [[Noise.]] I ask for respect for the rapporteur and the Commission's work. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u154	Thank you, Madam President. If the case is to be dealt with in open court, or where the court decides to deal with it in that order, the first hearing shall be scheduled within a period of not more than four months from its formation. In the event of irregularities of the cassation complaint, the time limit shall be extended by their removal. In open court, the case shall be dealt with with by a prosecutor. The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule by a decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case has been concluded. (4) When the case is closed, the decision shall be given within a period of not more than 6 months from its establishment. In the event of irregularities in the cassation complaint, the time limit for the ruling shall be governed by the removal of irregularities. When examining the case in closed session, the prosecutor shall draw a conclusion within two months of its initiation or within a time limit set by the court. (5) When the case is postponed, the next hearing shall be scheduled within two months and the parties regularly summoned shall monitor themselves for the date of the next open hearing. The court is obliged to announce the date of the next open hearing within 14 days on its website. (6) The time limits shall cease to run during the judicial vacation and the days declared for public holidays, unless that code or special law provides for shorter periods.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u155	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start my speech on this text, quoting the Bulgarian Constitution. According to art. 121, para. 3 of our basic law: "The examination of cases in all courts is public except when the law provides otherwise. Indeed, the constitutional legislature has provided for an opportunity by law to make an exception and to close certain meetings. However, such as any exception, the exception to the principle has its limits. We know the reasons why meetings are being closed. These are when a high public interest needs to be protected, for example, there is sensitive information, or state classified information, or the personal interest of interested parties, i.e. when data on the person who is in front of a court who is sensitive to other indicators may be disclosed. The limit of the exception to the principle, no doubt, is that this principle does not turn around. In our Constitution it is written: everything is public except for those who for certain reasons are closed, and in the Law they offer us, it says: the case is dealt with in closed session unless something else happens. This is a reversal of the constitutional principle of publicity at court hearings. Where such an exception is made, it must be justified and not only with pragmatic arguments. It has been explained to us that this is due to a faster process, because these meetings are already taking place in a certain way. The pragmatic arguments here are not sufficient because of the constitutional arguments I have highlighted. And one more thing, the high administrative judges, those who are trying to help, said unanimously to the plenary that this would not help them. On the contrary, this will create practical difficulties in their work. The effect that is intended, even if he is most conscientious, will not be achieved. For all these reasons, the text has experienced serious evolution. A much more radical solution has been proposed, which has been mitigated over time. The Commission has reflected many of the views in order to get to a text that discloses the principle of closed session, but makes it quite easy for any party to ask, including the prosecutor, to request that the meeting be opened. The consequence of this is, most likely with a high degree of security, we can assume that most of the meetings we are talking about will remain open. And then: why do we continue to be stubborn with the reversal of this principle? This stubbornness is not useful, as the damage is great. The damage, on the one hand, is not to say image, but are related to it anyway, unfortunately, low trust in all institutions, including judicial ones, unfortunately. And the news that will come after the vote on this text is called for meetings to do something in the dark, or they close the meetings right where cases of high public interest are being tried will not help to raise the prestige of our judicial system. The bad news is not only that the headlines will not help, but that they will have their reasons. The cases in administrative justice very often, not to say always, do not only concern the stakeholders in the process, they are cases in the lawful enforcement of acts and in the activities of the administration, of power. These are cases in which citizens dispute power decisions. These cases have a public response and a public interest. Closing them will prevent not only the overall right of protection and of argumentation, but also the public's view of how, when and why certain cases are decided. We're also in a hurry, we're cutting deadlines because we say it's better to decide quickly. It's better for people to settle their cases faster. Good, but there's always a losing side in a case, and when the losing party doesn't even know when her case happened, [[the President signals that time has run out]] When it has been decided, it will hardly be pleased with the speed of the process. I'm done, Madam President. I apologize for exceeding the time with the following. This amendment is constitutionally controversial. It will create a controversy that no one needs and we have been practically told by the judges that it will not help them. It must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u157	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I won't. A statement by Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u158	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I hesitated whether to request a reply to my colleague Zarkov's speech or a separate speech, because two minutes for a reply would not be enough, so I asked for a separate speech. My colleague will have a chance to replicate me. In my speech, I take occasion from the whole argumentation of my colleague Zarkov, who we discussed in detail in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and several times. Firstly, I would like to say that colleague Zarkov is wrong by designing the public interpretation of this institute, which is really new, we have indeed proposed it with the awareness that we are taking a very serious, major step towards the structure and organisation of the judicial proceedings within the administrative process. I will therefore say here some of the main arguments that we, as importers, have defended in this debate with the opposition. This is not an amendment that we are doing in passing, it is a fruit and result of a thorough study, a study of the current law enforcement practice in the cassation instance, which in administrative cases is the Supreme Administrative Court. Colleague Zarkov said that our main motive was the speed of proceedings and we forced it on even the supreme judges who did not want this change. It is true that for this proposed change, the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court has a negative opinion, but this change we have made and proposed mainly with regard to discipline in administrative proceedings in its judicial phase and in its final judicial phase, which concerns the cassation appeal. At present, the open hearing in the court of Cassation is taking place briefly, not to say instantly, but its duration is extremely short, where the most typical development of open court is that where the procedural representatives of the parties provide their written observations. They say: we maintain the complaint or contest the complaint and submit the written observations. In practice, we have also discussed the temporal development of such a process in the course of the day-to-day set-up of cases by a Chamber of Supreme Judges, and you can see that seconds were the average duration of such a case. The truth is that the parties do not plead in detail, in depth, comprehensively before the Supreme Court of Cassation. This is explained because the cassation proceedings here are a test and it concerns the verification of the application of law in proceedings so far. In the vast majority of cases, it is impossible to present, i.e. to comment on new evidence, to gather and submit new evidence. In this case, the case should be clarified by the lower authority and the supreme judges should only rule on the law. It's about what's gonna happen. I am convinced that you rightly pointed out that, yes, we are an opportunity for everyone who wants each participant to be able to open the meeting and this will be the mass case. The first year 95% of the meetings will be opened, but we hope the second, third, fourth rate will decrease. The judges fear that they will overcharge themselves for a transit period, but we have also resolved this issue in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Madam President, I apologize for the extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u159	On the contrary, you have nine more seconds. Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, I do not agree and I am not pleased with your speech, as you have not touched on in detail the part that this norm is actually entirely constitutionally appropriate. Once that the constitutional legislature allows for an exception, this has already been said by the stands, and this exception is purely formal and legal by means of this norm. Next, indeed, this text has undergone quite a serious evolution and a change, and from the initial total introduction of a principle of closed hearing, we have reached opportunities, and quite wide, at each of the parties to ask for an open hearing, that is, any party that decides and considers it important that it wishes to plead that it wants to be heard by the Supreme Judges, will have this opportunity to request, and then the hearing is open without the possibility of the judge-Rapporteur's assessment to be such or not. Next, even if none of the parties expressed such will, it is left as an opportunity for the Judge-Rapporteur himself to also assess precisely, if it is a dominant public interest, that the meetings be opened. So this had to be clearly said. Next, you missed not only the discipline, not only the speed, but this norm actually helps citizens, helps citizens, helps legal persons, as it saves them costs when they consider that it is not necessary for them to appear in open court and repeat with a minimum sentences, as is happening in 52 seconds, I think it was those who have laid out much more detailed and much deeper in the cassation appeal, which at this time do not expose them for a number of reasons. I don't want to go into details about why they're not exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other lines to Mr. Kirilov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Since I overdid it last time, I'll be very brief. It is absurd to keep saying that we are being helped by people who are telling us in direct text: "We do not need this help, you are not helping us, you are hindering us. This also applies to the Supreme Administrative Court, this applies to a large extent to citizens, if we can say that they are represented by their organisations and lawyers. See, you can draw the line, you can get all the cases in 52 seconds, 30 seconds or 22. By the way, here is an interesting argument that since it's about a few seconds, what exactly are we saving as time, on the one hand? But the other is that there may be one, two, five cases a year that have a high public interest in which people, researchers, politicians, journalists, citizens, stakeholders want to see who and how they defend their interests. These are sometimes cases in which the parties to the case would like to be closed, but others of us, society, should have a view on this, because in the case before the administrative court and especially the cassation proceedings are not just about money and interest, but about the proper implementation of the Law. The correct application of the Law concerns all of us, it must be public by definition.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u163	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Mitev, I thank you for giving me the opportunity by replicating me to answer this question, which I have actually missed, but this was in view of the insufficient time. For this reason, I now have the opportunity and I confirm the following: my conviction is categorically that the proposed amendments do not conflict with the constitutional order. I will also repeat our position in the debate at the Legal Committee. If you believe that the amendment that we are providing for is unconstitutional, I consider it appropriate to submit a request to the Constitutional Court and to make an explicit examination of this text in order to have clarity of all the parties and entities, both the judges of the Supreme Court and the National Assembly, and the institutions that will apply the Code to the actions of this norm, but we believe that with all the editorials that we have made, the rights of the participants are as protected as far as possible. You say there are cases of public interest that require publicity. Colleague Zarkov, any party may request the hearing to be opened and the court itself may order an open hearing. What are we saving? We save the time, efforts and expenses of the participants in the administrative proceedings, which is a problem. It is a problem for the applicant from Vidin to organise his protection in the Sofia Supreme Court and are costs in any case. It is much easier for his lawyer from Vidin to write the cassation complaint, rewrite it and mail it to the Supreme Administrative Court. In any case, it is easier and guarantees access to justice. In addition, because you have repeatedly pointed out the disagreement of the Supreme Judges expressed in Plenum's opinion, I will recall something that you have witnessed. I have asked the Supreme Judges to explain in detail what concerns them in the definition that is in advance and to take opinions open or closed hearing. With all due respect to the judges, you've all been convinced that it bothers them that they should read the case before the hearing. Colleague Zarkov, I want the judges to read it as soon as they form it I want to, I insist and despise as a participant in the proceedings that they have read it and even when I go to plead with them, make sure they know the details of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u166	Madam President, honourable Members! The cases are currently being dealt with in open session. The motive behind this proposal is speeding up the process. But we must bear in mind that trust in the judiciary is not high. Closed meetings will not help in this direction. At the moment, any lawyer can appear before the judge-reporter and his two colleagues at SAC who will gain direct impressions. With the closed sessions, only the Judge-Rapporteur will decide the case. This is not in the interest of the open trial, nor is it in the interest of trusting the judiciary. Here the judges themselves say that this is not irrelevant to the process itself, because: We, as judges, have the opportunity to gain direct impressions. Yes, it is not valid for any process, but they themselves say it is important. Apart from that, they say: "This text does not help us "not a single judge, but the entire Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court. This debate is very similar to the debate in which the prosecution proposed to enter the private business. The employers say: "No, thank you, and the legislator: "No, it's very nice, we'll do it. We have exactly the same situation here. Professionals, the guild says "no" and we say, "People, it's very nice, now we're going to do closed meetings." We can't accept that. The court itself, if it thought of its narrow interest, would be much better for you to look at the cases in closed session, to go quickly and for the judge rapporteur to decide them. Here he honors you that he looks not at the interest of his court but at the interest of Bulgarian justice. We should both, as MPs, and as people representing the citizens, do so. I am finishing my speech with an address which I allow myself several times to address to this tribune, to the Bulgarian lawyer's office. The great absentee of the debate is the High Council of Law. The Bulgarian barrister should be ashamed that in key changes in the administrative process is the big absentee. I guess that's not important to her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u167	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines to his statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I have been listening to you. You're biologically young, but you're using tactics and methods that are very forward in camera manipulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u169	Biologically young.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u170	I can't help but react to that. A few intrigues you tried to tie up in your speech, so I'd like to argue, so I asked for a line. This, for the great absentee, is absolutely false. First of all, the bill has been on the table for over a year. In the last sessions discussed two top lawyers, and scientists: Professor Doncho Hrusanov, who, apart from the Doyen of the Administrative Legal Department, appeared before the Legal Commission and as a representative of the Supreme Council of Law. Plus, the Council of Law always read the bills and opinions, and if they wanted to, they could take part in the debates. I'm asking you not to interfere with this suggestion, because it's going to be a reverse reaction from the lawyer's office. With regard to the protection of citizens, I repeat: the citizen is protected at 100%. If he wants to open up, if he doesn't want to open up, then he stays indoors, but any other participant can say, "Yes, but I want to open up." Thus, in practice and objectively, the principle of openness is maintained. I apologize in advance for your biologically young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u171	Biologically young, but operaticly played was an interesting formulation. Are there any other lines to Mr. Bojankov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov. You don't want a doppelganger. A statement has been made by Mr. Philip Popov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u172	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Constitution is the highest law in one country, you all know it. It lays down the framework under which society is governed. The Constitution introduces principles. Since this principle concerns high public relations, the Constitution has laid down the principle of open court hearings. Now you introduce an exception to this principle in the form that, you see, depends on the will of the parties whether a sitting is open or closed. This high public interest is laid down in the Constitution, such cases, in general cases in the Bulgarian court to be held in open court, although there is one exception and it is introduced in the laws and in the Constitution itself, but it is an exception, not a fundamental principle. With regard to the fact that with these proposals we will reduce the costs of a court case, I think they are absolutely untenable because here on one side you place high public interest, from the other, costs to be incurred by the parties. You know that the losing party, even in administrative cases, has the opportunity to recover these costs. By this logic, all the proceedings should be closed in order to save money, to exchange some papers, written notes, and then the costs of conducting any case, regardless of whether administrative, civil or criminal, and there are criminal offences, it is not a coincidence, it is not a coincidence, then the costs will be much lower. Do not introduce such an exception, especially that it will not save absolutely any time. In the Commission, representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court made it clear and clear that they did not agree with the introduction of this exception that they were working quickly and well enough in the current rules when the hearing was opened. On the contrary: they expressed an opinion that this thing could lead to an extension of the time for the relevant cases. The introduction of the principle that this exception should depend on the parties, well, the country may fail to request an open session and, in fact, to protect the public interest, not only its own. Why does the Supreme Administrative Court require legal internship in order to be able to go to the Supreme Administrative Court and lead the court? A junior lawyer can't go to the Supreme Court. This is written in the Law of Law. You have to have a certain internship to report to the Supreme Administrative Court and sign the relevant cassation complaint. It is this that leads to the conclusion that court hearings, especially when it comes to the Supreme Administrative Court, of public, public relations with high public expectations, should be opened. Here, too, colleagues mentioned there is mistrust in the judicial system. Now you're dropping, figuratively speaking, a veil in solving cases. This will lead to even greater mistrust and denial of the judiciary in Bulgaria, including that in the Supreme Courts and in the Supreme Administrative Court, although the judges in Bulgaria, I courageously claim it, including the Supreme Administrative Court, make a really immense effort to ultimately reach fair and legal decisions. This concerns control of the legality of administrative acts in the Supreme Administrative Court and we must close the sitting and leave it to the will of either Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u173	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! In my opinion, there is more than one problem in this text that we are discussing. You've heard the matter of closed court proceedings, I'll start with it, but there are two more besides it. A little over a year ago, in a foreign - language scientific journal, I read an article which professions will disappear very soon after artificial intelligence appears. One of those professions was unfortunately my lawyer's. Evidently, the members of the article, those who think about it at all, think in the way that the Lawmakers think. You just heard that meetings normally took place fifty-something seconds ago, that people would go just to give their written notes. I believe that for many of my colleagues and for me the opportunity to speak in the Supreme Court, the opportunity to interpret and interpret the right is an opportunity that can and objectively lead to decisions in the composition dictated by what they hear. So it does not follow... and this will limit the introduction of a principle, albeit for the time being, the closed hearing. It is the supreme courts that are the place where a lawyer can, with rhetorical skills, interpret and interpret the right to determine to some extent the decision. In addition to this question, however, I would ask you to see para. 5 and 6. In para. 5 It is said that the parties in these matters will be watching themselves for subsequent meetings, and the notification will be only on the Internet. And if, in the reports, we said that citizens do not need to be electrified to participate in administrative justice, here we see that they need to be informed, not from where, but recorded on the Internet. In order for me not to be very wordy, the third paragraph, which I see in this text, reads as follows: The terms stop running during the judicial vacation and the days declared for official holidays. This is very nice.. the deadlines to expire after the judicial vacation and not on a day of official holiday, but the text continues:.. except when this code or special law provides for shorter deadlines......................................................................... This means, in my opinion, that the text can be interpreted in such a way that, where the time limits are shorter than those set out in the text in the paragraphs above, they may expire during the judicial vacation and on official holidays. For these three reasons, we will not support the editing of this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u175	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u176	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Contrary to BSP colleagues, I would urge you to support this text in this version. It became clear from the debate so far, first of all, that this text is not unconstitutional. On the contrary, it is entirely in line with the possibility that the constitutional legislature has given in certain cases the sittings should be closed. Next, the text follows and its logic follows the actual course of a sitting before the Supreme Administrative Court. Here colleagues have described, I would say, some rather idealistic moments, which in most cases, unfortunately, are not in practice reality when you appear before the Supreme Administrative Court. Is it because the supreme judges have been overly charged so far, whether for other reasons they do not always have the opportunity, the desire to hear a lengthy plea from lawyers who have appeared on a given side. Maybe it's good to think about another possible interpretation of the question. Imagine that you under the current regime get a subpoena. Many parties and their lawyers appear before the Supreme Administrative Court because they respect the court. They respect the court and cannot refuse to appear, although they can clearly procedurally submit a request, make written observations to it, justify their cassation complaint, but nevertheless, respecting the court, they appear. However, as they appear, they cannot fully develop these arguments which they would have liked, but cannot stress what they would have further wanted to say outside the arguments already put forward in the complaint once; and a second time, if appropriate, the defendant in the response to the cassation complaint. They gave examples of how the opportunity to attend the open session would be missed. With the introduction of mandatory procedural representation by a lawyer before the Supreme Administrative Court of Cassation proceedings, this cannot happen, as the lawyer will monitor and comply here with the interests of his client, respectively the interests of the country in this case. As far as the deadlines are concerned and up to the last paragraph, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these shorter deadlines, which were provided for and for which the debate was mainly for the election code proceedings, where you know that we have a 3-day deadline. There the deadlines are extremely short and there can be no exceptions. Moreover, this text is similar to the text we adopted exactly one year ago in the Civil Procedure Code. Dear Members of Parliament, I call on you to support this text. There's no reason to worry. The rights and interests of the parties in the process, including the public interest, are fully protected through the assessment of the Judge-Rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u177	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 24, Against 56, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 64, which shall become § 48. Vote 107 MPs: 89 against 17, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u178	Paragraph 65 "Instruction of the cassation check'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov: In § 65, in para. 1 of art. 218 words the Court of Cassation is replaced by the words the Supreme Administrative Court The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 65 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u179	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 15 against 39, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 65 in accordance with the text of the importer. 100 MPs voted: 97 against 3, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u180	Paragraph 66.. of an importer's text. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov: "Paragraph 66 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 219 is amended as follows: Art. 219. (1) In the cassation proceedings, only written evidence shall be permitted to establish material infringements of the rules of procedure, newly opened or newly established circumstances following the hearing before the first instance, as well as evidence of the nullity or admissibility of the judgment under appeal. Where complaints against decisions of a non-judicial body which has lodged an appeal against an administrative act under a law are dealt with under this Chapter, written evidence of the finding of the Cassational grounds shall be admissible. (2) No written proof shall be permitted: 1. which has not been applied to the cassation complaint under art. 212, para. 3; 2. for which there is no explanation of what is established with it in the cassation complaint; 3. which is not related to those cassation grounds. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 66 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: for 6, against 19, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 66 by importer. Vote 96 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u182	Paragraph 67 Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 67 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u183	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the wording of § 67. 100 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u184	Paragraph 68 Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 68 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. The second sentence is created: When the Supreme Administrative Court leaves the decision in force, it motivates it and can also refer to the reasons of the Court of First Instance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 13 against 42, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 68 by importer, which shall become § 49. Vote 91 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u186	Paragraph 69 "Introduction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 69 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u187	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 69 by importer. They voted 93 MPs: 89, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u188	Paragraph 70 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 70 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 70 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u190	Paragraph 71 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 71 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u191	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 71 by importer. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u192	Paragraph 72 "Contributor text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 72 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u193	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 72 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u194	Paragraph 73.. of an importer's text. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 73 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u195	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 73 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u196	Paragraph 74 "Taxes in the cassation production" "Instruction text." Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2.5, the proposal under point 2. 2.1, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6 has been withdrawn and does not support the proposal under point 2. 1,2.2 and 2.7. "2.2." If the proposal of 2.1 is not accepted, we shall propose in art. 227a, para. 1 the number..90..50..50..450.............................................................................................................................. is..................................................................................................................... 2.7. If the proposal by t. 2.6 is not accepted, we offer in art. 227a, para. 4 to replace the number A proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 74, is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 227a: "Taxi in the cassation production." Art.227a (1) The cassation applicant shall pay a preliminary state fee of BGN 70. for citizens, sole traders, state and municipal authorities and other persons performing public functions and organizations providing public services and in the amount of BGN 370. for organizations. Where there is a determined material interest in the case, these fees are not due but due to a fee determined as a percentage of the interest. (2) The state fee for the proceedings shall not be paid by the Prosecutor's Office for the submission of a protest, as well as by citizens recognised by the Court that they do not have sufficient funds to pay it. When examining the application for exemption from a State fee, the court shall take into account: 1. the income of the person and his family; 2. the property status certified by a written declaration; 3. the marital status; 4. the health status; 5. employment; 6. age; 7. other relevant circumstances. (3) Where there is a determined material interest in the case, the state fee for the citizens, sole traders, organizations, state and municipal authorities and other public authorities and bodies providing public services shall be proportionate and shall amount to 0.8 per cent of the material interest, but not more than 1700 BGN, and in cases where the material interest is more than 10 000 000 BGN. The fee is BGN 4500. (4) Whether in the case there is a determined material interest or not, the fees for the cassation appeal in cases for pension, health and social insurance are BGN 30. for citizens and sole traders and 200 leva. for organisations, state and municipal authorities and other public authorities and bodies providing public services. (5) Alinei 1.. 4 shall not apply in the cassation proceedings under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u197	Statements? Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Fees are an extremely sensitive topic for society because these are the costs of all Bulgarian citizens, and in administrative production the citizens most often do not enter of their own will. We are talking here about the attitude of power and obedience. Therefore, we must be extremely careful when working with this matter. [[Noise and lines.]] In this case, we are talking about fees as something extremely subjective. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, may I ask for order in this Chamber, since I can hardly hear my voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u199	Of course, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u201	I ask the MPs to take their seats and remain quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u202	Currently, court fees are extremely low. They cannot cover the costs of handling cases. That's not fair! And we are now taking the following approach: we are making the fees up to 90 times higher and we are burdening the Bulgarian citizens again on an undetective criterion. What do I mean? Our right clearly tells us: fees must be cost-oriented. They must meet a real cost made. You can't charge the administration to live or earn, you can't charge the administration to lose. In this case, we set the fees, and I'm gonna say it the hardest when we look at the ceiling. How did we set a charge of 1,700, 4,500?! What kind of expenses does this charge cover? Since you are very sensitive about employers, read the opinions of all employers' organizations! They're all negative. Since you hold their opinion, I hope you will comply with them and not burden the Bulgarian employers and Bulgarian citizens with similar fees. I can give you a very simple and practical example: a material interest in an environmental impact assessment case, with reasons that many people regretted illegal and deliberately stopping investor interests. And we have to pay attention to that, because the main motive is that many cases are being conducted. Here there is a hatred for the applicant, many cases are under way, now we will put these charges on them and no longer will any applicants be at our feet! So, is this the decision to restrict Bulgarian citizens from justice?! How will we determine a material interest in environmental impact assessment?! What material interest does the applicant have to make some money to lose?! What does it mean for one organization BGN 4,500, separate legal expenses and the other instance separately? That clearly means denial of justice! And here comes the non-governmental sector, which you clearly do not love, and that is evident with every legislative approach. If I may sum it up: on one side are citizens, employers and NGOs, on the other side are politicians who want no one to appeal against them: and we will pay them big fees! Notice the approach in the Law! Not in a tariff where citizens can appeal in the administrative court and seek their rights, but in the Law, where only the MPs can file a complaint with the Constitutional Court to ensure that no one can defend their rights in Bulgaria. If this isn't a step towards totalitarianism, I don't know what is! [[Noise, lines, shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u203	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Bozhankov, I was thinking about not taking a line from you, but I thought about how my colleague Kirilov expressed himself biologically young, but machined. [[Applause from GERB.]] In the final part of your statement, this has indeed shown. Neither totalitarianism is introduced nor these effects that you have said will manifest themselves. Why? First of all, you've mixed up several types of fees. You have mixed the fees for cases under the Environmental Protection Act with regard to EIA with the general principle that we define in § 74 by importer. As I recall, we've changed the text there. At all, the text did not remain as it was in the original version. This one, first. Next, we are not talking about fees set in relation to administrative proceedings, we are not talking about charges, we are not talking about contesting before an administrative authority, we are not even talking about charges in the first instance. We're talking about a taxicab in cassation. In the cassation proceedings, you know there's a law dispute going on. Furthermore, as far as I recall, in the meetings of the working group and in the meetings of the Legal Committee, I saw no representatives of either employers or trade unions to protect these. Maybe they changed them. More than that. I would like to stress that the importer has quite evolved from his initial understanding of the amount of fees and this is evident if you read the import text and the version that the Commission has finally adopted. There's a lot more I can talk about, but I'm gonna keep the rest of my arguments to speak up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another line? Mr. Bojankov, you don't use the right to the back. Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I want to withdraw the t. 1 of our proposal, etc. 2.7. Point 1 corresponded entirely to the thesis and to the positions developed by BSP colleagues, but our argument was formally legal. Our formal legal argument was that until now the fees were set in a tariff. Why, however, have we come to an evolution in our understanding that we should completely withdraw the increase in taxes to the Code? Because we have received information from the Ministry of Justice that, despite the several attempts they have made to increase the fees, because the fees have indeed not been in line with the social economic conditions for a long time, and therefore the costs which should be incurred at this time to administer a case in the Supreme Administrative Court, despite the attempts of the Ministry of Justice to raise those charges, these attempts have not achieved a successful result. Since they have not achieved a result, we cannot rely from now on that by tariff we will be able to bring about adequate rates of fees. Thus, there is a logic in the experience made by this amendment to establish the charges in the Code and not to rely solely on the tariff. I agree, and we are already different here with our colleagues from GERB, that these fees are especially in relation to cassation production, where we are not talking about determining material interest, we think are much higher than what the importer has proposed. That is why I support this proposal, which we have made for fees for individuals or citizens of 50 BGN. and fees for legal persons or organizations of BGN 230, which I believe are adequate, cost-oriented and justified amounts of fees. As a matter of fact and the objectivity of the debate, I would point out that what was expressed by the stands in relation to the manner in which the importers of the Bill of Fees are determining and the reasons for the introductions of the Bill of Fees, that they have hardly looked at the ceiling, is deeply false. Why is it profoundly untrue? The Members of the Legal Commission know that there was a very detailed argumentation in the reasoning, there was also a very detailed impact assessment precisely in terms of the amounts of the fees in this § 74, even they took up a very large part of the reasons, of the impact assessment as justification, such as depth and analysis of why these amounts are necessary and why these amounts are necessary. However, as a result of the opinions of employers' organisations, and not only employers', but also other NGOs, and the debate that took place during the time limit for proposals, we see that importers have nevertheless adjusted their initial fee size proposals downwards, and this applies both to those without determined material interest and to those with determined material interest. I am pleased that the colleagues from GERB have also complied with our proposal regarding the above borders, which have been halved by the initial proposal. We must emphasise that these charges relate mainly to cases and appeals where the material interest is calculated in millions of pounds in one case up to 10 million. BGN, when the fee is BGN 1700, in the other case more than 10 million. lv. material interest in the relevant administrative proceedings. And since this has been quoted very often by the VAS Plenum, I would like to stress that the VAS Plenum came up with an opinion in support of this paragraph and this principle of determining the fees. Finally, I would like to remind everyone in this House that before the democratic changes of 1991 and the restoration of administrative justice in Bulgaria there were no administrative courts, and before the 1970s there was no questioning of administrative acts and there was no way to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u207	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. One clarification. I was under the impression that you were withdrawing an offer in...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u208	Point 1 et seq. 2.7 and only remains t. 2.2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u209	Point 2.2 shall remain for the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u211	Thank you. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Mitev, I'm making a line to introduce a theoretical and terminological clarification. What you call an evolution in the Legal Commission is now a bargain. In pure Bulgarian, nothing more or less! And if one sees your proposal: If you do not accept this, if you do not accept this, if you do not accept the other by the other, then what you claim there were objective data and cost explanations, it was for some other fees, which we challenged at first reading and there was 90 BGN. Why is it now 70 leva? And why are you offering this waterfall from a taxi: if not this other one? Why? On the basis of which administrative references is justified? My line is based on making it clear to everyone that evolution is another concept. There was a bargain here. And there's no way to set charges like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u213	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Second line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mitev! I note the following: the Council of Ministers repeatedly tried, but could not increase the fees. And here I address not only the government, but also every MP, and my colleagues in the opposition: we need to understand clearly why the Council of Ministers has not been able to raise these fees? Because when the system asked for a raise of fees, the Council of Ministers politically said: "No, thank you, not to our head this raising of fees! The hot potato in the National Assembly. If you please, MPs, raise your fees so that you can then blame the MPs for being the black ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u215	Another line? I won't. Mr. Mitev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear replicating! Colleague of Bojankov, first to you. Everything you said wasn't true, everything! If you remember the explanations, they are not a secret, I will develop them now in detail, which they have given by the Ministry of Justice, were the following: from the moment of the establishment of the Administrative Procedure Code 2007, in all these years so far different governments, with different majorities, with different ministers of justice broadcasting not only tried, they have made projects to amend the tariff, not to have responded to the requests of the system, the exact opposite.... they have responded, they have done, but this tariff has been contested, and has been accordingly, for some or other reasons cancelled by the Supreme Administrative Court. Thus, for 10 years, provided that the fees continue to be in these low amounts and do not correspond. This is recognised not only by the supreme judges, but also by the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges. So the whole community of magistrates, who are engaged in administrative justice, recognize that these sizes that now exist are not adequate and timely. But it's not the Ministry of Justice's fault here. It's neither the current nor its previous guides back in time. They have done what was necessary, but the final result, unfortunately, despite all their attempts at different times, during different governments, did not lead to the result they intended. As for the reply of colleague Milkov, I would not say that this is about bargaining. I wouldn't exactly say that on the basis of the debates we had at the Legal Commission. Mr. Kirilov, the importer, made it clear at that time that he and his colleagues, as an importer, complied with the opinions and discussions that have developed between the first and second reading of the bill and on this basis, made their proposal to reduce the fees between first and second readings. By the same logic, our proposals have been made. Why are they under the conditions of possibility? Yes, they were under the conditions of possibility with a view to debating what is most appropriate and most appropriate in terms of the amount of the charge concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u217	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, before I close today's meeting, I will read you a parliamentary control message for 6 July 2018: 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer three questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov; Manol Genov; and Georgi Gokov. 2. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Stoyan Mirchev. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Nadia Klisurska. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Georgi Yordanov; and Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov, Valentina Naydenova and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question by the National Representative Valentin Lambev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question written by the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of four questions with a written answer from the National Representative Todor Bajchev. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. Due to an international commitment, as well as a bilateral visit of the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China to Bulgaria, which will take place in the period 5 July 8 July 2018, in this Parliamentary Control meeting will not participate: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov and Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. I'm adjourned today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-05.u218	The next regular plenary session shall be on 6 July 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
