ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we start with the agenda, I have two messages: On 26 July 2018, a Report on the results of a study carried out by the National Centre for Parliamentary Research on the legislative activity of the 44th National Assembly during the fourth parliamentary session was received. In accordance with the requirements laid down in art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly an annex to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the report and its annexes will be published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 524 of the Council of Ministers of 2018, allowing for the period from 30 July to 10 August 2018 the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of military and land equipment by the Allied Armed Forces of the Republic of Albania, Romania and Montenegro and soldiers from foreign armed forces of Georgia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Moldova in connection with the conduct of joint Bulgarian-American training in the area of study polygon. In the joint preparation on the American side, soldiers and ground equipment will be involved. The joint preparation is within the framework of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation and Implementation of the Plan for Joint Bulgarian-American Training and Teachings for 2018 and is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other States or organizations, armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been notified of the decision. The notification was received on 26 July 2018. No 802 00 40 and granted to the Defence Committee. We're moving on to the agenda. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. A report from the Committee on Environment and Water is next. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you'll allow me, I'd like to do the hall clearance procedure first. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Nikolay Kanchev to be admitted to Deputy Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u3	Please vote on Mr. Matsurev's procedure. They voted 145 MPs: 140 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. At a meeting held on 5 July 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. The meeting was attended: by the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Neno Dimov Minister, Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister, Silvia Dimitrova Director of the Directorate of Environment Assessment and Environmental Impact Assessment and Assessment, Iliana Todorova Director of Water Management Directorate and Valeri Georgiev Head of the Department of Bio-diversity and by the Ministry of Energy: Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Nikolay Nalbantov Director of the Directorate of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and Gergana Peneva Chief Jurissult; representatives of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Chamber of Engineers in the Investment Design, the Bulgarian Underwater Association, the Association of Producers of Non-alcoholic Drinks in Bulgaria and the Association of Parks in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the Law and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Neno Dimov, who announced that the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection was developed in implementation of the government programme and decision of the Council of Ministers to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, as part of the proposals came from the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. The Bill also provides for amendments to several other laws: the Biodiversity Act, the Waste Management Act, the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act and the Water Act. Minister Dimov stressed that the Draft generally leads to a reduction of the total number of required documents and simplification of the procedures for interaction with administrations in order to achieve relief for citizens and businesses. He pointed out that changes to the Environmental Protection Act govern the possibility of a unified procedure for an investment proposal subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment, complex permit and/or safety report for a high risk undertaking. This procedure shall be conducted at the request of the contracting authority and the possibility shall be discussed with the employers' organisations at discussions and round tables. The Minister pointed out that each of the procedures is of the order of six months, and with the discussions and coordinations the time for the three procedures may exceed two years, while the united period will be significantly reduced by just one public discussion and only one possibility of appeal, with the competent authority being the Minister of Environment and Water. Regarding the proposed amendments to the Water Act, Mr. Dimov noted that they have been prepared for a long time, having been at public consultation in mid-2017 and agreed with the ministries and departments. A new approach is proposed for the protection of water for drinking-bit water based on the risk of pollution and the need for purification. Three levels of protection are introduced: the first zone of protection, which protects physical facilities and direct introduction of pollutants, the second zone of protection, which, on the basis of a risk assessment, will be determined and reviewed every six years in accordance with the river basin management plan; and the third one, for the protection of the entire body of water used to draw water for consumption by persons with a flow rate of more than 10 m3 per day or serving more than 50 people. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva announced that 13 opinions and 24 objections were received on the project, which were published on the Commission's website: Bulgarian Industrial Association, Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, Association of producers of soft drinks in Bulgaria, the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design, Global Water Partnership.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The National Assembly has also received opinions from the Ministry of Health, Bulgarian Medical Association, Association of Physics and Rehabilitation and Specialized Hospitals in Rehabilitation. A negative opinion on the bill was expressed by representatives of the Association of Parks in Bulgaria on the amendments to the Water Act, which they believe will violate the requirements of the Framework Directive and this could lead to a criminal procedure, as in the period to the new river basin management plans (2021). There will be no precautionary measures for the protection of drinking water; the Association of producers of soft drinks in Bulgaria, according to which the objectives for the conservation of mineral and spring waters are common, but are confused by the proposals made on the Water Act and this could lead to uncertainty for the protection of water, as well as for the future investments made and by Professor Pavel Penchev, who expressed the opinion of the experts on groundwater in the Bulgarian Underwater Association. It opposes changes in the status of sanitary areas and expresses concerns about the capacity of specialists in this area from pool directorates. He proposed to update the ordinance of the Council of Ministers on sanitary and security zones, but not to change the approach. Deputy Minister Atanaska Nikolova answered the questions asked and concerns of the business, scientific community and non-governmental organizations, stressing that changes in the Environmental Protection Act really alleviates a severe regulatory regime and the proposed new approach to water protection is also related to the new directive on drinking water and Bulgaria is lagging behind in this serious process, which will be implemented with broad public participation. She also noted that there will be no period with a lack of regulation, and the current regime will continue to be in force, the orders will be valid and the designated prohibitions and restrictions will be respected. Ms. Nikolova pointed out that criteria, methodologies and regulations with the participation of specialists will be drawn up for the implementation of a new approach, and the directive requires not only protection but also improvement of the quality of water and the protection of mineral waters, as part of the underground, will be even better and will be included in the river basin management plan and the programmes of measures. The attitude of the draft took: the national representative Manol Genov, who expressed understanding and agreement on the part of the bill related to reducing administrative burden, but shared the concerns of NGOs, scientific circles and business regarding changes in the Water Act, which will therefore refrain from supporting the Bill; the national representative Petar Petrov, who addressed a question to Ms Nikolova about the concerns of NGOs that four years of population will be left without protection of drinking water, where the Deputy Minister pointed out a specific text which, until adoption of the regulation, retains the current order for determining the security regime; the national representative Atanas Kostadinov, who expressed concerns about the possibility of reduced water protection and a general objection against the implementation of heavy directives by another law. He also supported the first part of the Bill relating to the relief of administrative burdens. Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva said support for the Bill and the objectives for easing the administrative burden in its main part on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. She stressed that the efforts by the Ministry of Environment and Water are undoubtedly needed to implement the government's programme to reduce the administrative burden by reducing time limits, obtaining documents by official means, combining procedures for the choice of the investor and so on. It argued that the discussion and all the opinions received to the Commission as a whole focused on the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Waters relating to amendments to the Water Act, which is a sign of the need for a wider discussion and consultation with the interested parties of the texts relating to amendments to the Water Act. The parliamentary group will therefore support the Bill and the objectives set out in its main part, but will propose extending the deadline for proposals between first and second reading and dropping the texts relating to amendments to the Water Act in their Final Provisions. A working group on the bill will also be established. Minister Neno Dimov expressed his opinion that water is really a strategic resource and that it should be treated responsibly, pointing out that it should go towards the risk-based approach, giving an example of a given territory and taking into account the opinion of the local community. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 13 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. The next report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Shevked, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 11 July 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Energy and the Association of producers of soft drinks in Bulgaria. The bill presented by the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water Krasimir Zhivkov was prepared to adopt measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses after a review of the regulatory regimes and the administrative services provided in the field of environmental protection legislation. As a result, the requirement for the provision of certain paper-based documents that are possible to be obtained on a service-based basis is removed; the timing of certain procedures is reduced; the process of interaction with other administrations is optimised; the possibility of a joint procedure is envisaged when an investment proposal is available, which is subject to a mandatory assessment of the environmental impact, a complex permit and/or a safety report, in cases where an undertaking has high risk potential and at the request of the contracting entity; the process relating to public access to information on investment proposals is envisaged; the time limits for issuing the administrative authority in the production and review of complex permits are reduced; competence is transferred by the Ministry of Environment and Water to the Executive Environment Agency, in relation to indicating a specific procedure for complex permits, shall be reduced with the aim of being only one and of introducing the service of a single window. The transitional and final provisions provide for amendments to certain laws relating to the bill. Serious objections raises the amendment in § 39 concerning the Water Act. A number of organizations - BIA, CRIB, Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Manufacturers in Bulgaria, Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and others - express serious concerns regarding the proposed amendments that have not been subject to public consultation; a large part of the texts are unclear and do not guarantee the quality of drinking water; there is no procedure for how protection zones will be defined and referred to a regulation. During the meeting, importers argued that between the first and second reading of the bill, these texts would be proposed to be dropped. In the course of the discussion the Deputy Minister of Tourism Mrs. Irena Georgieva said that the envisaged amendment to the Health Act introducing the concept of priority in art. 78, would lead to an imbalance in the policy on sustainable tourism development and would put several groups of entities engaged in economic activity in accommodation located in areas with mineral water available. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management has the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u8	Mr President, honourable Members: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Environmental Impact Assessment, Mrs. Iliana Todorova, Director of Water Management and Ms. Rositsa Petrova, State Expert in the Department of river basin management. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act aims to alleviate the administrative burden for business by creating optimal conditions for investors while maintaining legal requirements guaranteeing effective control. Following an analysis of existing legislative documents and practices to achieve the goal, it is proposed: reducing the number of documents required by applicants, for which it is possible to obtain them by service; simplifying the process of interaction with other administrations; reducing time limits by procedures; optimizing the process of announcing public access to documents within procedures. A united procedure shall be established at the request of the contracting entity where an investment proposal is available subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment such as a complex permit and/or safety report where an undertaking has a high risk potential. The integration of procedures enables the public concerned and other institutions to be fully informed, provide a comprehensive approach to environmental and human health risk assessment and achieve a reduction in the total duration of two to three times, and save investor costs. The united procedure is in line with the requirements of European legislation and the recommendations made by the European Commission. Compliance with Directive 2010/75/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions (complex pollution prevention and control) is achieved with Directive 2010/75/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 implementing recommendations from the European Commission. By transferring the competence to indicate a specific procedure for complex environmental authorisation by the Ministry of Environment Executive Agency, the competent authority remains only one, leading to further reduction of the overall duration of the procedures. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill there are proposals for amendments to the Law on Biological Diversity, the Law on Cleanliness of Air, the Law on Waste Management, the Water Act and other regulations. The changes mainly relate to the removal of paper-based documents and to required documents to be obtained by official means. The proposed amendment of the Water Act changes the current principles of water protection through sanitary protection zones and introduces the establishment of protective belts, ensuring the protection of facilities against destruction and pollution, by assessing the risk in determining them. A new version of the provisions governing the ownership of land in the protection zones is envisaged in accordance with the new regime introduced for water-based installations in order to prevent direct pollution of water, as well as the issuance of a new regulation to ensure the implementation of the Law. Amendments are also provided for in all laws relating to the modification of the water protection regime intended for drinking water supply. A discussion was held on the proposed texts of the Bill. Specific questions from the members of the committee relating to the practical implementation of innovations were clarified by the representatives of the importer on the organisation and the possibilities for the technical implementation of the new norms. As a result of the comments made, it was agreed that the texts relating to the amendment of the Water Act need a new revision and clarification until the next stage after the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, as a result of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by 10 votes............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You have the floor, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe First vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 July 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the Department of General Policy in the field of Hydromelioration and Fisheries and Lydia Rashkova, Chief Expert in the same Directorate. From the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister, Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Environmental Assessment and Environmental Impact Assessment, Iliana Todorova, Director of Water Management Directorate and Rositsa Petrova State Expert. The bill was presented by Mrs. Sylvia Dimitrova, who pointed out that it was developed in connection with reducing the administrative and regulatory burden on citizens and businesses. The competence of the Commission on Agriculture and Food is the changes related to the modification of the requirements for the protection of water in water protection areas intended for drinking water and mineral water for drinking water, for the production of bottled water, for healing purposes, prevention, etc. The current regime for determining sanitary zones around the water-based facilities is out of the question. It is envisaged that protection belts will be established around each facility to ensure that they are protected from destruction and from direct introduction of polluting substances and that protection zones for the protection of water in areas with an established risk for the quantity or quality of water are identified. Measures and specific monitoring will be implemented within the water protection area, according to the characteristics of the protection zone concerned. Water users shall be obliged to build a protective belt, including to take action to change land ownership where necessary. Accordingly, the transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide for amendments to a number of laws, including the Law on Soils, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, the Law on Forests and the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, related to the change of the water conservation regime. The Fisheries and Aquaculture Act in addition amended the provisions relating to the construction of new and reconstruction of existing fish passages, which will be carried out at the discretion of the Director of the Basin Directorate in accordance with the objectives and measures in the river basin management plan and based on the results of implemented monitoring, up-to-date hydrological data, etc. The Ministry of Environment and Water explained that in view of the numerous objections received under the Bill during the debates in the leading and other accompanying committees, it was decided between the first and second votes of the Bill that all texts relating to the change of the current regime for determining sanitary zones around the water-based facilities were withdrawn. These texts will be subject to further public consultation and consultation of stakeholders. Regarding the amendments to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, they explained that consultations are currently being held with the participation of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, experts and industry organisations of fish producers. Once consensus is reached, the proposals will be presented to the MPs. Asked a question about the possibility of legitimising water-based facilities built without a permit by the Ministry of Environment and Waters reminded that such a procedure is provided for in the Bill and those of the facilities which are technically fit will be able to be registered after payment of the relevant fee. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Environment Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Energy Act by seven days, i.e. the deadline to be 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u13	Thank you. I put to the vote what the National Representative Delyan Dobrev proposed to extend the deadline under the Energy Act. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Who will present the Health Commission Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 28 June 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The bill and its motives were presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov. He briefed the members of the Commission on the objectives of the Bill to adopt measures to implement decisions of the Council of Ministers to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. Relieving the administrative burden by creating optimal conditions for investors at the same time preserves the legal requirements for effective control in the sector. The draft regulation regulates the possibility of carrying out a united procedure where an investment proposal is in place, subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment, complex authorisation and/or safety report in cases where an undertaking has high risk potential. The combined procedure shall be carried out at the request of a contracting entity as it is optional. The bill regulates amendments to the Water Act by changing the requirements for water protection in water protection areas intended for drinking water supply, as well as mineral waters intended for the production of bottled water, for healing purposes, for prevention, for recreation and sport. The amendments provide for the suspension of the regime for the designation of sanitary zones around water-based facilities. The bill provides for amendments to a number of laws, one of which is the Health Act. § 53 of the Draft Law introduces amendments to the provisions in force of Section VIII "Current Resources and Resorts", Chapter 2 of the Health Protection Act. The proposed amendments to the Health Act are due to changes in the regulations governing public relations in the area of resort resources and resorts. The aim of the proposed legislative amendments is to regulate the procedure for issuing and renewing a balneological assessment that certify the composition and properties of mineral water from the specific water-based plant of mineral water, the objectives and the way it is applied. The provisions relating to the announcement of urbanized territories with declared resort resources for resorts are reviewed, which will be made on a proposal from the Minister of Health with a decision of the Council of Ministers. For the announced resorts will be subject to the regulations under art. 77 of the Health Act. In the course of the discussion were made remarks on the draft Law by the National Representative Dzhevjet Chakarov, as well as recommendations for further amendments by Dr. Ilsa Popova, representative of Specialized Hospitals in Rehabilitation, National Complex, and Association of Physics and Rehabilitation. Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova expressed support for the bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has a report. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. At its regular meeting held on 27 June 2018, under the conditions of art. 33, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Neno Dimov. Minister of Environment and Water. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Waters, Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Environmental Impact Assessment, Mrs. Iliana Todorova, Director of Water Management, Mrs. Rositsa Petrova, State Expert at the Department of River Basin Management at the Directorate of Water Management. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment has been developed in connection with the implementation of Protocol Decision No 28 of 28 June 2017 of the Council of Ministers on the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, Decision No 338 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 adopting measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement for the submission of certain official paper documents, Decision No 496 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 implementing Decision No 338 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 and under Priority No 39 in the field of environmental management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 The objectives set by the draft law are in terms of easing the administrative burden and are related to: reducing the number of documents required by applicants, which can be obtained by service; simplifying the process of interaction with other administrations; reducing time limits for procedures and optimizing the process of announcing public access to documents within procedures. With regard to European legislation, the draft provides for the achievement of full compliance of the Environmental Protection Act with Directive 2010/75/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions, integrated pollution prevention and control, in implementation of European Commission recommendations. In the subsequent discussion Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, Vice-President of the Commission, asked the Minister to present the draft in more detail in the part enshrined in the Transitional and Final Provisions relating to the Water Act, where a reform is being undertaken aimed at bringing legislation into line with the Water Framework Directive. Mr. Dimov explained that the main point in this change is the way in which sanitary zones are defined and the way in which drinking water is protected is protected. This measure is taken in order to preserve and ensure the cleanliness of drinking water. With regard to this amendment, Mrs. Todorova stressed that it is being done in order to preserve the purity of the entire bodies of water and to clarify the scope of the sanitary zones. In this regard, the Minister clarified that the main idea was to move from territorial identification to prevention, in line with potential risk and not only on the designated territory. Christian Vigenin, President of the Commission, asked in turn how this risk was assessed and by whom. Ms. Todorova assured that the measures taken will be defined in the river basin management plan. They are subject to public discussions and will be developed by the pool directorates and will then be listed in the Ordinance, such as a regulation, following the adoption of amendments to the Water Act. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Commissioner, asked whether the current amendments will reflect the comments of the Supreme Administrative Court's decision on the case with the Dam. Mr. Dimov explained that there should be no specific connection between the application of the Operational Program and the changes that are being made at the moment. He stressed that the Operational Programme will finance consolidated water companies and if the requirements are met, they will be able to apply. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed, with 4 votes for the Council of Ministers, to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 802-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Honourable Members of Parliament, we shall proceed to the debates on the proposed bill. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor to confirm the position of the parliamentary group of GERB, expressed also during the discussions in committees on the proposed Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Environmental Protection. GERB's parliamentary group will support the Bill because its main goal is to alleviate the administrative burden for businesses and citizens. According to one of the government's main tasks set out in the Management Programme, in the Environment sector, the government must work towards introducing measures to optimise preventive action towards simplifying the procedures of the investment process, environmental impact assessment, removing unnecessary procedures and matching requirements, where applicable, improving the integration of emergency safety into heavy industry management. These objectives are achieved through the proposed bill. In its main part, the Bill proposes a number of changes that are related to the reduction of time limits, to the service exchange of information, and, last but not least, perhaps the most significant change proposed is the possibility to reconcile some of the most severe procedures related to environmental legislation, namely the environmental impact assessment procedure, complex authorisation and safety report when it comes to high risk proceedings. In this sense, the main part of the bill has received its full support and we propose to the National Assembly that it be supported. At the same time, as it became clear during the discussions, and through the reports of all the committees in which the Bill was examined, the Crossover and its concluding part contain texts relating to the amendment of the Water Act. Those amendments are essentially linked to a change in the approach to protect drinking water sources and sanitary zones that are currently in operation and are proposed to be replaced by the so-called risk-based approach. A number of discussions have been held, you know that there are expressed and concerns from all stakeholders, including municipalities, businesses, and the scientific community, and NGOs. Our position is that these changes are extremely significant and must be withdrawn in the course of the debates and proposals between first and second readings. We will propose the annulment of these texts because we believe that they have not been taken after detailed public discussions, consultations with all stakeholders and consensus, so that we can all be sure that protection, protection of drinking water sources, which are so important and related to the health and standard of life of our citizens will be guaranteed. I confirm our position in favour of the Bill in its core part. We will propose the annulment of the texts in the Transitional and Final Provisions relating to a change in the Water Act in the "Sanitary and Security Areas" section. At the same time, we will propose an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings, so that we can all specify the texts in the Bill. Of course, I, as President of the Committee on Environment and Water, undertake to form a working group that will work after the period of the proposals between the first and second votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? I won't. Dr. Chakarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment amends not only the basic law but also many other laws, not only the main law is subject to change. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, we express our overall support in view of what was expressed in both the opinion of the Commission and Mrs. Vasileva just now, namely that the administrative burden is reduced and procedures are simplified. Their reconciliation is undoubtedly a positive step that cannot be helped. During the Commission's meeting, I made comments that another basic rule in environmental legislation and procedures must also be observed that the public should be informed at the earliest stage of the investment proposal with a view to assessing the environmental impact and, above all, people's lives and health. We do not support another transfer of competences from the Ministry of Environment and Water to the Executive Environment Agency. I pointed out that particularly in the period 2009 - 2013 a lot of competences were transferred, and this is another approach to emptying the Ministry of Environment and Water's competence and content. There's no way to welcome this. I wouldn't want to be specific so I don't take up all of your time. We also welcome the relief of the administrative burden in the Biodiversity Act, in the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act and in the Waste Management Act. We can also welcome the changes that are being made in the Health Act and, in particular, carrying out a balneological assessment by the Minister of Health, mineral waters for drinking, hygienic, healing and preventive and rehabilitation purposes. This is also a step in the right direction. However, it is not clear why the commitments that have been introduced into the legislation so far regarding the construction of dams are dropped when water facilities are being made on rivers and on derettas, with a view to preserving fish passages and not only for migration for fish, at all for biodiversity. And at the moment, there is a need for more serious control to ensure the minimum flow of rivers with a view to preserving biodiversity, including fish. In this respect, it is clear that we will stand for this to be maintained in our legislation. We have fundamental remarks regarding the changes proposed in the Water Act. I welcome the approach offered by colleagues from the Political Party GERB, I also welcome the approach of the Ministry. At this stage, comments were heard, as I said during the Commission meeting, both on the part of the business and by all interested parties, that the changes proposed with regard to sanitary zones have not been properly assessed. In addition, the most important thing is that the legislation should not be changed in this way after the public discussion of the major changes in the macro-racial law on environmental protection has passed, these changes to the water law are further included. Moreover, we see that they wake up quite negative reactions, and in this regard they need to be refined. Because so proposed they do not regulate, but, on the contrary, place a door in the field of legislation, there is no clear regulation and real basis exactly how the so-called protection belts will be defined. Given that only 19 to 20% of the sanitary zones in our country are designated by order, this process should be settled. We of the Political Party DPS, of the parliamentary group of the DPS, are adamant that such sanitary and security zones or protective belts must be built in order to protect the purity of the drinking water, of the mineral waters, of the water at all. There must be a clear regulation, because so proposed, I repeat: without going ahead on the assumption that administrative authorities are guilty, they create conditions and opportunities for a broader interpretation, otherwise said for a corrupt environment, and in principle the legislation should change and improve that all possibilities for corruption should be eliminated. In this respect, we welcome the Ministry's approach, but we would like this to be a reality, and we hope that between first and second reading they really will not be supported. I am prepared by our parliamentary group to support all texts that improve legislation, as we have pointed out. With regard to the LID of the Water Act, we maintain our view that it must go its whole way, to be proposed again, to have a public discussion, to hear the opinions and positions of all parties, and then to discuss and adopt texts that give clear regulation in this extremely important and sensitive environment for settling public relations, as this should happen accordingly. In view of the comments we have made, we will abstain from supporting at this stage the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, and we will support by a second vote all texts that are a positive step as I have pointed out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u21	Thank you, dear Dr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From our parliamentary group we welcome the philosophy of the Law laid down in its true part. We agree with all the proposals made that will likely lead to business easing, speeding up the realization of investment intentions made by different entities. At the same time, we strongly disagree with the amendments proposed in the Transitional and Final Regulations to the Water Act. The colleagues before me shared their concerns, so I don't want to repeat them. I just want to say that at first reading, we will abstain. Between the first and second votes, we will make proposals for the removal of these articles, which, in our view, are untenable, thoughtless and create another approach in the establishment and implementation of sanitary zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. That concludes the discussion. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 802-01-21, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 128 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 27. The proposal is accepted, with which we end on this bill. Mrs. Vassileva, procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second reading of the newly adopted Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act be extended by three weeks, i.e. to become the maximum possible period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for an extension to the maximum amount of the time limit for examining the Environmental Protection Bill. They voted 122 MPs: for 121, against none, abstention 1. The procedural proposal has been accepted. The next item in the Programme is: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW ON STATE OWNITY. It was introduced by Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs, No 854-01-52. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs will be presented by Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act No 854-01-52, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. At its meeting held on 11 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 854-01-52, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 13 July 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Lachezar Borisov from the Ministry of Economy, Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Zlatka Bojinova, State Expert at the Directorate of Trade Companies and. The bill was presented by the MP Nikolay Alexandrov, who pointed out that it aims to reflect the legislative changes in the legislation after the annulment of the Public-Private Partnership Act. The draft law specifies the possibility for the State to import property into the capital of public-private companies within the meaning of the concession law, but subject to State aid law. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works said they support the bill. Deputy Minister Borisov noted that changes to the existing provisions of the State Property Act will ensure the implementation of government policy for the deployment of industrial zones. During the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Danail Kirilov, Hamid Hamid and Pencho Milkov. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the proposed changes harmonise the Law on State Property with the Law on concessions and clearly determine in which cases the Law on concessions is applied and the body implementing the procedure is also specified. He added that if necessary, he would make proposals between the first and second readings of the Bill to specify the texts. On the question asked by Mr. Milkov about the way of securing the interest of the state and the public in the assessment of the companies in which state properties are imported, Mr. Borisov pointed out that in these cases an analysis is being made whether the contribution constitutes State aid, adding that any increase in capital is carried out by an act of the Council of Ministers after the performance of a market test. He added that there is no State aid contribution to a company whose business plan shows that it can develop. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the House, without the opposition and 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 854-01-52, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Until now, there has been a ban in law on property and property of the State owner or of undertakings with more than 50 per cent state ownership to be imported into private or mixed public-private companies. The report, I make clear in one sentence, is a form in which the imported property, by entering into the property of the business company, is stopped being the owner and it becomes the property of the commercial company and the management bodies of the trading company can determine what is happening to it. With the proposed changes today, as a continuation of a policy initiated by the new Law on concessions, which has entered into force since the beginning of 2018, this thing is changing, which I am explaining to you. Property and property of the State and of enterprises in which the State has 50 per cent or more, it is proposed to be able to be deported to commercial companies, such as the management bodies of these companies, their commercial activity, to determine what will happen to these properties. Thus, private entities that are in mixed companies will be able to carry out activities, to take decisions in which they will be able to affect, undoubtedly, the properties. The important thing is that by banning us, we move on to judgment. We're going from ban to judgment! However, state estates represent an essential characteristic of the state, its power even. And moving from a ban to judgment to carrying out such reports, in us and in me, I have also exposed it to the Commission, there is a reasonable concern for the protection of public interest, which is why we will also abstain from the first vote in support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u29	Thank you, dear Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 854-01-52, submitted by Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 113 MPs: 82, against 5, abstention 26. The proposal is adopted, which concludes the legislative part of today's meeting. Beginning of parliamentary control 11:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u30	Good afternoon, Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Asked questions about the period July 20th 2018: a question was asked by the National Representative Tanya Petrova to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, about the transition of schools to a one-dimensional regime. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 7 September 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MP Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on two issues by the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev; - addition to a response from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova. Colleagues, we are continuing with the first question of today's parliamentary control. It is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov. The question is from the MP Volen Siderov about the concessions for gold in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear journalists! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to a subject I've been working on for 18 years. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah! Not 18 months, not 18 weeks, but 18 years I'm a publicist, then as a politician, with the theme "Golden concessions in Bulgaria." In 1999, the then government granted a concession to a company called It was sold for four or five million. $4 million, about $4 million. The dollar, imagine! Only the welded materials and yields there are ten times more! One criminal deal, I'll just say so, which I've discussed over the years many times! Many governments changed. Here, on this bank that I am, I have also asked the question of the company's cut off the gold concession of Dundee Precious Metals, which you bought, but these are the same people, the same composition. And this company, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to tell you that it has no experience in extracting natural wealth before coming to Bulgaria. Just like that, for her eyes, she did some research in Serbia, Armenia and Turkey, but without real production. In fact, Bulgaria is the first experimental field of this company. Why was she chosen? How was she chosen? You can ask then Prime Minister Ivan Kostov. He's alive and well. His deputy prime minister has moved into the better world, but there are still living people who can answer, especially if they stand in front of an investigator and prosecutor, why they made this deal. But now my question to Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov is as follows: in view of your commitment to coordination, monitoring, reporting on the activities of the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of concessions, I want to tell you, colleagues, that some of you do not know that about a month ago a National Strategy for concessions by the Council of Ministers was adopted. A special Coordination Council was established, which was headed by Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u32	The question, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u33	My question is: what are the amounts, nominally and per cent, of the concession fees paid by "Dundee Precious Metals" on which yield are charged, for what period are the concession contracts concluded and in which areas of the country are the respective concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, in connection with a question concerning the dimensions of the concession fees paid by the "Dundee Precious Metals" on what yield are calculated, for what period are the concession contracts concluded and in which regions of the country are situated the gold mining concessions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, I inform you the following. The questions related to underground riches, including gold, gold mining and other metals, are regulated by the Underground Treasures Act. This law is special in relation to the Law on concessions and derogates its application, and I chair the Coordination Council on concessions on the grounds of art. 38, para. 3 of the Law on concessions. With the Law on Underground Treasures, the powers associated with the presented concessions for the extraction of underground riches are delegated to the Minister of Energy. In view of Order No KV-387 of 16 May 2017, for the distribution of the functions of coordination under art. 108, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for the implementation of interaction with the bodies of the executive power of the Council of Ministers, the activity of the Minister of Energy is in the portfolio of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev, so I do not have the authority to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. About the line Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u37	Mr. Simeonov, I'm not satisfied with your answer. This is rather an escape from an answer, because the internal-formal division of portfolios in the Council of Ministers is not important in this case. I asked you a question and you accepted it, since you are here, as coordinator of the Coordination Council on concessions. I will also ask the Minister of Energy, of course, and Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, but since I know your insistence, when you take up a question, how persistent and offensive are you even, why are you pulling away now? Why? What prevented you from taking out this data, taking out this contract, bringing it here, and the whole society at last, and I, after 18 years, to find out what the Bulgarian state had done, what a contract it had entered into with a foreign one, will say the softest definition of a suspicious, dubious firm. It's your duty as Deputy Prime Minister. We're working together on the interest of the state, aren't we? Isn't that what keeps us going? Whether we are going to deal with sites by the sea or with objects inside the heart of Bulgaria, the principle should be the same. In this case, Bulgaria's interest is strongly, severely damaged. I can give you data, I'll let you know, and I call you, if you want, to do checks on these concessions. I am ready to participate in them as a national representative and to establish not only this, and the other 565 concessions, which are given for the extraction of natural riches in Bulgaria. The total concessions are over 1290, but these 565 for natural riches. Let me tell you: Chelopech is the largest gold field in all of Europe. We add copper, silver, strategic elements that are exported without any control. There is every reason to terminate the contract with this company on the basis of Decision No 147 of the Council of Ministers of 27 March 1999, which gives the concession the right of the State to unilaterally terminate the concession contract in the event of non-compliance with basic obligations. The failure is there, I don't have time here, but I have enough arguments, I can give them to you to end this contract. Although late, it may still be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, in my work I have always strictly adhered to my powers and duties. There's no way I can break them, get into the perimeter of another deputy prime minister. With regard to sea checks, which become something of a lithmotive, let's say, season two, these are checks of the institutions, of the control bodies that receive support from me. I am not the organizer, nor am I the leader, nor am I the Fuhrer, nor any of those checks. These are standard checks that are not carried out in the first, second, or fifth years each year, these checks are carried out, but this is entirely within my authority. As is my authority, control of privatisation and post-privatization transactions. I make a commitment to do what is necessary for this treaty in order to demand it and to provide it to you, naturally, through my colleague Tomislav Donchev, who I am sure will not mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov for today's participation in parliamentary control. Go ahead, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u41	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner in which you are specifically directed. By asking you to fulfil your duties as President of the National Assembly and to influence Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who stands against me in her capacity as Chairman of the Financial Commission of the National Assembly, for the bill which has been tabled, we have submitted it to many people, but in the end she has remained tabled by colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" - that is, from those in charge in September last year. It's about the Law on Liqueurs, or about citizens with housing-saving deposits. In January, it was adopted with full unanimity from the House. Both colleagues from the Patriots and colleagues from GERB voted, and since then he has not been put into the Commission in order not to pass at second reading. This is done with the sole purpose of the colleagues who voted for the GERB to actually lie to their voters because they both tell them that they support their interests and at the same time do not want to pay the money to the people, and this money is due. They're due 30 years ago. For 30 years each power has been messing with these people and is currently doing so the majority of GERB. My procedure for you is to do so that this bill is dealt with in the Committee on Budget and Finance, so that it can pass at second reading before the National Assembly is dissolved, because with these prominent leaders you have, power will soon fall, and the Bill will be dropped on this occasion, which means that you will damage the interests of many people.......................... about 60 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I'll talk to Mrs. Stoyanova. Let's move on to the next question. It is a question by the National Representative Krum Zarkov about the policy of the Ministry of Finance against the Fund of Radio and TV. The question is to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u43	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in May, I addressed you with a written question regarding the "Radio and TV" Fund and in particular what funds are collected there and how is the Fund administered? By the end of the month, you replied to me the following, and I quote: "Today, under the terms and conditions of Chapter 5 of the Radio and Television Act, the Radio and Television Fund is not established and does not function at the Council for Electronic Media, which is why they do not raise funds in this order. " This answer is clear, but the finding is causing a new group of questions. First group of questions. For what reasons did a law that entered into force almost 20 years back in time still not actually apply? Indeed, in your written reply you explain the reasons why the collection of fees by citizens under Section I of Chapter 5 of the Law is practically not applicable. I agree, I accept that explanation. Fees by citizens cannot be collected in this order. There is no explanation why the next section of the Law, which provides for the establishment and regulates management, as well as other sources, other than the fees of citizens who can fill this fund, is not implemented? The second group of questions relates to the fact that, according to the current Law on Radio and Television of 1 January 2019, the entire subsidy of the state budget of BNR, BNT and SEM must be completely replaced by financing of a fund that does not yet exist. The answer does not show whether that practice, which has been required since 2006, is to postpone the entry into force of a provision by any budgetary law. That's been done 13 years in a row. In the reply you also mention a legislative proposal of the Council of Ministers of 2015, according to which the Fund "Radio and TV" should be deleted, but it did not become clear whether you still support such an opinion? So I took the liberty to sum up, and I am grateful that you are here to answer all this in the following question: what are your and the government's views and intentions towards the Radio and TV Fund in particular and the model of funding public media in Bulgaria as a whole?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. For an answer, Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, with the provisions of the Law on Radio and Television, as you have quoted, the creation of the CEM of the Fund of Radio and TV is envisaged. The regulation is clear: the CEM must determine the composition of the Governing Council of the Fund, adopt the Rules of Procedure and its activities. As main sources of fundraising in the Fund are provided: monthly fees for receiving radio and television programmes, initial and annual licensing and registration fees collected by the CEM. The main sources of funds provided for by the Law in the Fund are virtually impossible for reasons which I have laid down in written answer to a parliamentary question to you since May 2018. The intended model for financing radio and television activity by paying a monthly fee on the basis of each registered electricity meter has so far not been realised and, in my view, the initial legislative initiative has not been well thought out. The non-discrimination of the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Law on Radio and Television is also related to the regulation governing public relations in the energy sector. The specific activity of the energy distribution companies which are commercial companies and can carry out only explicitly provided for in their licence shall exclude any possibility of charging under this law. In the previous reply to you from May, I also presented information about the initial and annual license and registration fees collected by the CEM. The revenues from these charges are currently administered by the CEM and serve to cover its administrative costs for the activities related to licensing, registration and supervision of licensed and registered broadcasters, as provided for in Chapter 5 relating to the costs to be carried out by the possible fund. For information, the fees collected in recent years are: for 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 17,000. lv.; 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the $6,000. lv.; 2015 '901,000. BGN, such as the annual amount of licence and registration fees and their designated by the Law on Radio and Television, do not allow for the provision of financing of radio and television activities. The other sources of funds provided for the Fund are linked to the main sources of interest on the funds raised in the Fund and are of a erratic nature or uncertain at the moment, such as donations, wills and other sources determined by law. The non-discrimination of the norms regarding the recruitment of the main revenue sources in the Fund of Radio and Television and the legal disagreement in practice put the creation, management and operation of the Fund in an impossible manner under the provisions of the Law on Radio and Television. The provisions of Paragraph 2 (1), (2) and (4) of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Radio and Television Act shall be imposed in view of the non-existent of the Radio and Television Fund and the absence of equal conditions for the creation of such. The changes made annually to those provisions are in order to extend the set deadline for financing BNT, BNR and CEM with State budget funds, until the introduction of the ZRT rules in accordance with the Public Finance Act. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television was adopted by the Council of Ministers in November 2015 in relation to § 18 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Public Finance. It is designed to bring provisions of the ZRT into line with the principles, rules and terminology of the Public Finance Act. The Ministry of Finance supports the Bill and the proposal made with it to repeal the provisions governing the status and activity of the Fund. The reasons for the proposed cancellation are justified by the objectives set for strengthening consolidation and the rules laid down in the Public Finance Act that the administration and management of funds by budgetary organisations is carried out through their budgets or accounts for EU funds. With art. 2 of the same law introduces a fundamental principle which provides that no other law can create a framework of matter under the Public Finance Act, which deviates from the principles and rules laid down in it. At this stage the funding of the public media in the country due to the lack of functioning of the Fund is from the state budget with the determination of transfers from the central budget for the two media, BNT and BNR, with the State Budget Act for the year in question. In accordance with art. 70, para. 3 points 2 s 6 of the HRT in revenue from the budget of BNR and BNT receive subsidies (transfers) from the state budget and own revenue from advertising, sponsorship, proceeds from additional activities related to radio and television activities and others. In this regard, public media funding and advertising, sponsorship and other revenue is a possible and more effective option for funding public media. We are ready to discuss how appropriate the existence of such a fund is. As far as it is a financial and legal form for collecting and spending funds, it does not in itself add particular value to the management of national media. If it is considered that the establishment of a special management board, which will appear a new unit in the management of cash flows in the financing of public media, has its role, beyond what is currently described in the Law on Radio and Television, can be reasoned in a similar direction. The objective fragmentation of financial flows without being clear and specifically formed new revenue sources with which public media can be financed is not appropriate insofar as it will only create an additional administrative structure without responding to how this improves management and increases the independence and independence of public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u46	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, nothing in itself will change the situation materially, but here we are not talking about self-image, but about the most significant difference that carries the distinction between state media and public media. The way public media funds are financed and managed is key. In this order of thinking, before I take a more general attitude, I would like to ask two additional questions. The easiest option is the one proposed in 2015 with arguments for financial consolidation and others to delete the fund as if it did not exist. That would be the wrong option, in our opinion. Therefore, my two additional questions are the following. We agree that the Law is not done well in terms of how the Fund is being completed. Have you considered, or would you agree to begin to consider, together with stakeholders, other own funding tracks? You mentioned, for example, advertising as a source of own funding. You know that since 1998 they have been limited to certain parameters for public media. It's a fund-raiser. They are known to experts who work in the field. The question is: are you ready as Minister and as an important part of the government to hear? Many have been and often criticisms have been shared regarding the way public media are financed in Bulgaria. These criticisms are, in fact, also at the beginning of that debate in 1998, which is quite useful and should be read again where the funding model has been exchanged by leading public media throughout the world. Are you ready for this debate? That's my extra question. Are you ready to commit to it and initiate it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer the supplementary questions, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u49	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zarkov, we are ready to participate in any debate that would guarantee greater independence for public media. However, we must make it clear from now on that the issue of liberalising advertising on national media is not new to the government. If you return to the archives of the National Assembly, you will see that the Ministry of Finance in 2005 with the Draft Law on the Annual Budget for 2006 proposed a similar thing that was quickly subsequently repealed. This is not a new subject for us. We have always believed that public media reform and a limit on the possibility of the national media to be able to advertise, has played its part in the transition from the monopoly of state media to demonopolization and entry into the media market of a huge number of commercial entities currently operating under CEM licences. In this sense, the debate can be held relatively easily here, as far as I see no significant differences between the position of your group in this case, if it is recognised by the entire BSP for Bulgaria and on the other hand the government. However, it must be borne in mind and stated from now on that it will not be easy to replace the subsidy from the state budget entirely with fees collected on another principle, in so far as the total subsidy for the two media exceeds 100 million, by memory of around 120. Such a resource, if it starts to be collected through fees, were charged on the basis of an electric meter, which shows that it is currently not working, or otherwise, would mean a significant additional resource to be seized by consumers of such a service and to waive the need for budget funding if there is a need to reduce the dependence of public media on the budget. Of course we're ready to take part in this debate, but should the government initiate it? It gives me the impression that the last few laws, one of which is the Law on Political Parties, another "The Law on Media, the third........................ with the electoral legislation, are somehow monopolised by the parliamentary legislature. Here the Council of Ministers is less involved, but that does not mean that we cannot exercise our right to legislative initiative in this direction. If you propose a format in which representatives of the Parliament from the Cultural and Media Commission in your person and government experts, we are ready to work on a consensus text in this direction. However, you yourself understand that the delivery or addition of new commitments to the users of this type of service will not go without pain insofar as it is a kind of quasi-new tax. The debate will not be welcomed by those who have to provide through direct additional payments in the order of 100? 120 million, and only to replace the current level of subsidy. Of course we are ready to participate in this debate if you offer an appropriate format.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u50	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor to express yourself, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, well, we will offer formats that are suitable for such a debate, which will include the main stakeholders. In this debate, this must sound clear: at the moment, public television charges cannot and should not be introduced. At the same time, citizens practically and now pay to receive BNT, which by law should be free for them, as the realities are different. Everyone already receives their signal through certain operators, which include in their packages BNT and BNR. That is, there are new players, new realities in the market that have emerged since 1998 and which, if we want this law and this fund to work, we need to take them into account and adapt them. And this fund, we're convinced, must work. He's not just a ruse. Its composition includes people outside government circles, outside political parties. He guarantees the public of the media. And the environment in which we live and the media environment in which we live needs strong public media as a guarantor both for freedom and for quality. This role is played by public media everywhere in the world and everywhere in Europe. The other step and goal that the debate must set is to make a new postponement, as it was in 1998. It is natural that on 1 January 2019 the Fund cannot absorb 100% of the necessary funds and should not absorb them like this. But we have a choice to postpone it for another year or face the problem and find its solution. I am sure that Bulgarian citizens will understand that it is their essential right, namely the right to information, access to a quality cultural environment. In the next few years, it can be made so that the Fund has enough role not to hang BNT and BNR only on the will of the Minister of Finance, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Thank you for your participation today, Mr. Minister, but if you wish, you can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u53	Here the question must be answered.......................................................................................................................................................................... Putting an intermediate unit to distribute a currently non-existent resource or to redistribute the same one will probably add some value. From your analysis it is clear that the current device of functioning of the system of national media does not produce sufficient quality of their product and allows doubt of their impartiality and objectivity as national media. You didn't say it, I said it. The very fact that you are looking for a missing intermediate unit shows doubts about the way the CEM is currently functioning and the management of the two national media. The main question here is whether this intermediate unit will be entrusted with such functions as to increase independence. We must not doubt that the Constitution will continue to guard the government's perimeter in terms of drafting the State Budget Act. In this sense, the personification of this responsibility to the finance minister explicitly raises it in the public hierarchy, insofar as the Budget Act is adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament, although proposed by the Council of Ministers. Again, we can think. We can think. You've drawn at least two of those we can think about and seek consent from. One relates to the fees collected by the current commercial operators in the way that public relations are currently regulated in the sector. The other topic, which has been raised periodically over the years, but has not yet reached any successful development, is how much to enable state national media to have a larger market in terms of advertising, although recent years the advertising market has been relatively stagnated with regard to electronic media. It's being transferred to the Internet, but it's not my power or my specialty. I am ready with the resources of the Ministry of Finance and perhaps my colleagues from the Ministry of Culture will join us to see what we can do. Again, I say: the key to this debate will be what new expectations are assigned to this interim management unit, understand the Management Board of the Fund, which will increase the quality of national media and they will be under less suspicion that they serve one or another strong of the day.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u54	Thank you for your participation, Dear Minister. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Yordan Mladenov regarding the use of school buses in the municipality of Septemvri. You have the floor, Professor Klisarova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minister, many signals, video material, footage from the citizens of Septemvri municipality were received next to me and to Mr. Mladenov in connection with the fact that systematic school buses are not used for their intended purpose for the carriage of students, but for various activities of the municipality, for excursions, including political events. In this regard, we have addressed a question to the management of Septemvri Municipality, what is the regulation, what rules and how are these school buses used, because they are provided to the Ministry of Education and Science with certain targeted means in relation to the access of children to school? Therefore, our question to you is as follows: how does the Ministry of Education and Science control the implementation of the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for providing funds to compensate for reduced revenue from the application of prices for public passenger transport by road provided for in the regulations on certain criteria for passengers of school buses? What measures will you take to break this wicked practice? I'll expand the question. Thank you for the conversation we had together and for your appointment in September Municipality. I'd love to hear the results of that check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u56	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisarova, the funds for free transportation of children and students are allocated to the municipalities under the terms and conditions laid down in the Ordinance you are talking about. In accordance with the rules laid down therein, the control of the appropriate and regular spending of grants to provide free transport to children and students shall be carried out by authorised by my order or by the head of the relevant regional management of education officials. School buses should only be used for the needs of children and students. Since the beginning of the implementation of the national programmes in 2005, the purchase and delivery of school buses was envisaged. The Ministry has transferred to the municipality of Septemvri two school buses and one of the School of Primary Schools in the village of Karabunar. For each of the school buses transferred, a contract is signed between the Ministry and the recipient regulating their use. According to the signed contracts, the municipality of Septemvri and the school are obliged to use the buses transferred to them only for the carriage of children and students by not providing third parties with vehicles. Exception to the prohibition shall be permitted only in respect of organisations entrusted with the transport activity of traveling children and students. With my order, a check was carried out on your signal. We're expecting her results as soon as possible. What has been reported to me is that the school bus, which carries the students from the School of Primary School.......................the route from the village of Karabunar to the village of Slavovitsa and back has been transferred to the municipality since the 10-year term has expired. The clause states that after the expiry of the contract the bus becomes the property of the municipality and can be used for other purposes. The driver is a state in the municipality, and technical support and service are carried out only by the municipality of September. The mayor of Septemvri provided us with written information that during a time outside the schedule for carrying students by bus traveling ensembles to the rural community center, as well as people from the retirement club. Following the findings contained in the verification report, recommendations will also be sent to the schools for bus use. The control of motor vehicles with which the free transport of children and students is carried out shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 33 of 1999 and shall be carried out through the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Yeah, that's right. We have a problem with the use of school buses not meant to be. We've been over and over and over and over again. There have been numerous signals in the Ministry, we have no signals that they are not used for the carriage of students, they are used for the carriage of students, but besides for the carriage of students, they are also used for other purposes. We've got a lot of footage, we've reacted to all the signals. Unfortunately, they are also used for political purposes, including election and post-election trips to a neighbouring country, including going to a meeting of Buzludzha. I'm sure these days you'll be vigilant there not to have school buses. We have a number of signals and checks made on them. What we have taken as actions is made available to municipalities on the basis of agreements with municipalities, those nearly over 500 buses that have been provided. The problem with these agreements is that even if we find non-use as intended, we cannot take back the bus because it has passed public municipal property and this cannot happen without the consent of the municipality concerned, respectively of the municipal council. That's why we changed politics. You know, as in your mandate as a minister policy, they were to be provided to school directors. The principals of schools can at least hold them accountable as they are in relationships with the respective head of regional management and almost all the signals we have with us show that these are buses that are managed by municipalities. In most cases, directors are more afraid to abuse these school buses. Of course, we also have specific cases when a bus serves several schools. They are then exceptionally granted to the municipalities as they carry out this coordination or conclude an agreement between the schools which are to use this bus jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer and I want to say that I am pleased with it. Indeed, school buses should be used as intended. This leads to their real use for children and to less depreciation, a better organisation, and this is absolutely necessary. As I have heard from your answer, the regulations are there. The contracts have been made. They are done properly, but unfortunately, they are not respected by all municipalities and by all municipal councils, so there must be serious control. The measure for school buses to be transmitted to the directors is extremely correct and should continue to be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u60	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. The next question is also from you and from the MP Irena Anastasova regarding the admission of children to a children's establishment and first grade in the country's larger cities. Mrs. Anastasova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! By asking this question, Professor Klisarova and I were aware that one and more likely answer is that the problem with admissions in the first grade and in children's institutions is primarily a problem of large cities and is ultimately a problem of municipalities, as they define the rules for admission in the first class of municipal schools and children's institutions. Art. 43 of the Law on pre-school and school education says: "For the implementation of the reception in the first grade in each place with more than one school the municipalities develop a system of reception, in which the school's proximity to the permanent or current address of the child is a leading criterion and define the secondary areas of the school for the scope of the students. Alinea 3 has already specified the first, second group and so on. You know, especially in the big cities, there have been a lot of problems with reception. I'm sorry that my question is only coming out now, but due to the timing of your situation and on our part it has happened anyway, there is a next reception coming up, and I think it should be considered more seriously. The problems came mainly with children whose parents bought a home to the school in the last year, or for example children who could not be admitted to the school of brothers or sisters who are older than them, and it is obtained that parents should leave one at 7:00 in order to leave the other until 7:30 or 8:00 in the morning, i.e. an inconvenience for families, not to talk about fracking cases, in conflict with the Law, which was for organizing first grade admission exams. Of course, these entrance exams were otherwise called in some schools, and in some private schools they were frankly referred to as receiving exams. I am surprised because these schools also carry out their activities according to the requirements of the Law, by what right they make entrance exams for the first grade. Both I and you are aware that the problem of admission in the first grade and not only in the first grade can not be solved until the main problem is solved the different level of quality of education in different schools. Both I and you are aware that every admission criterion is actually discriminatory and there is no reason to be angry with parents, they actually want the better for their children. Both I and you are aware that the requirement of art. 3, para. 2, p. 3 of the Law, namely equal access to quality education and inclusion of each child and of each student, is not really realized in our country. With the Law and Decree 10 of the Ministry of Education and Science, municipalities were transferred the heavy responsibility to define criteria, to create admission systems and thus to solve this unresolved problem at this time. The more correct approach would have been to identify measures, to carry out real actions, which is very important because otherwise we have many measures of document, of a book phased to align the quality of education in different schools; to analyze the state of the so-called unwanted schools; to see the reasons for this condition and to take appropriate measures. And the reasons could be a lot of incompetent leadership, a bad material base, a cluster of students from ethnic minorities and so on. When such analysis is competent, well-meaning and when followed by real action, this will certainly result. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry, I extended the question a little bit. I suppose these analyses are being done in the Ministry and that is why our question with Professor Klisarova is: having clarity about these problems, what measures does the Ministry provide to ensure the normal reception of children in children's institutions and the first grade for next year and not just for the next year, for all the following years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Atanasova! Thank you for your question. It's always up to date, as you said. I will not read what they have written to me, because you have also asked a number of important questions about this question. By issuing Ordinance 10 on the organisation of activities in the school education system in 2016, the principle of proximity was regulated. The principle of proximity, I dare say, is not discriminatory, it is a principle that you can also see in many other countries. It does not take the right of parents to enroll their children in another school, but gives an advantage to enroll at the nearest school. You said equal access to quality education. This is the main goal in the school education system, but this equal access is more or less a projection of physical access to the school. You should have the opportunity to go to a school that is reasonable for traveling or moving distance, especially in less populated areas. The principle of proximity is not a discussion, by the way, since last week we also have a Commission decision on protection against discrimination, which confirms this. The principle of proximity is important in order to minimize the time and cost of movement from a safety point of view, if you want, the children's travel to school, in terms of the comfort of parents. Yes, we also found that this principle was not enshrined in the Ordinance, and in this sense, perhaps soon in August, we will propose changes to the Ordinance, which will be in this direction, including what you said when an older brother or sister up to the seventh grade is enrolled in a school, so that the child who applies for the first grade can be a first group for him, i.e. to be classified as a child living in the region. What has been discussed in the past year is the established principle of seclusion. The fact is that last year we had numerous abuses of address registrations and employment registrations, ten people were registered in small retail outlets and so on, what the control bodies found. That was cleared this year. The principle of sedentary, on the one hand, can be said to lead to injustice towards parents who have really recently purchased a home in the area, but on the other, guarantees the right of access to the nearby school of a large number of people who last year remained unclassed for the school concerned. We have numerous people ranked, recorded at the last minute, and at the same time children living next to the school could not enroll in the school. I can definitely say that in recent years, looking mostly through Sofia, where the biggest problems are, we also have an improvement in the process. There are no queues that there were years ago when the principle was first signed up, we don't have the abuse of address registrations, with the employment that it has. I am pleased to say that this year in the other three largest cities of Plovdiv, Varna and Burgas, where we have had similar problems, as in Sofia, but on a smaller scale, and where they have single information systems built, something that is not and should be done in Sofia, I suppose we are of the same opinion with you. In Varna, I think that more than 90% of the first rankings were ranked at first request, in Plovdiv and Burgas In Sofia, we do have problems because of the uneven distribution of school infrastructure depending on the population distribution. You can take into account how many people have settled in the southern regions of Sofia in recent years, so Sofia Municipality also said it plans to build four schools in the southern districts. The Ministry of Education will also cooperate. The fact is that areas of scope must also be refined. Why? Because we have schools with more places and fewer children in adjacent areas and vice versa. In this sense, iterations must be made to bring the school's range closer to the children in the adjacent area. In terms of equal access to quality education. It is Utopia to believe that all schools will be trained of the same quality. This is the competition that is better in quality, but we must create relatively equal prerequisites for them. It is a fact that this particular principle of proximity and this zoning allowed schools that were neglected because of the disproportionate, so to speak, impact of reputation on demand. The differences in reputation that multiply the differences in demand have led to the fact that schools with few children this year have a good filling rate and this gives them conditions for them to attract better teachers, to develop better. In other words, it has led to a more equal distribution of the principle of proximity between children between schools and avoiding unwanted excess concentration in some schools for which we also provide for additional mechanisms. Maybe in the back, I can answer you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u64	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your response to all the problems, but indeed the principle of proximity must be respected. It's for the safety of children and for the comfort of parents. Well said. The principle of sedentary lately is no longer valid. It is a mandatory area range of what you say, because there is no way to distribute children evenly in unevenly distributed regions. Yes, the single information system is very helpful. As a resident of the city of Varna, I can confirm that there is significant progress, but still does not solve all the questions, because every parent wants his child to be in the best school and it is normal for parents to apply more for these schools. Therefore, I think that the Ministry's efforts should be aimed at improving the quality of each school in creating and creating a material environment, of course, and the qualification of teachers and the motivation of parents. I would like to draw attention to another issue, which also depends on the Ministry of Education and Science, and this is precisely art. 53 " Regulation No 7 on the financing of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, especially pre-school education, and especially in the primary children's groups. There they reached consensus on two very serious issues. One question is about the number of students that during the winter period there is a great incidence and you know it. Children fall below 12 below 8, they have to unite groups. This reduces the delegated budget to the garden, leads to some teachers' disagreement for lower pay or the release of some teachers, which can cause great harm to the training of children. That goes for big cities, too. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that this year, too, there has been an extremely big problem for children with special educational needs. A very wide, very difficult topic, where very difficult, in certain schools, because they do not meet the principle of proximity, for example, can be recorded these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u66	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u67	Thank you. Driven by their individual rationality, parents give the maximum opportunity of life to children through education, by putting them in what they are meant or appreciated, we do not have formal assessment, informally evaluated school for better or for the best, these small differences in the prerequisites for quality training lead to major differences in demand, which are then multiplied in prerequisites for providing more quality education. Some major schools have better prerequisites for providing quality education. It's overconcentrating. Some parents realize that they have been lied to, others, by enrolling their children in less preferred schools, realize that they have not made a mistake. This does not mean that there are no differences and should not be a permanent goal of our policy and we should improve the conditions, especially teachers and the material base. These are the two main factors. In fact, the main factor is always teachers and schools should have the opportunity to provide them. Regarding our segregation, I could not say a few words. This is also a change that we made in Regulation No 10.. exception to the principle of proximity. I am convinced that in the coming years more and more in the big cities will be the problem with what is called secondary segregation. Again, this same problem, the gap between individual and collective rationality, we must make desegregation policies. Municipalities should make policies and we should support them because secondaryly segregated schools are obtained, whole neighborhoods around them are becoming undesirable, which is not desirable, and from the point of view of the effective inclusion of children in school it is appropriate to do desegregation. You've asked a number of more questions. I don't know if I can offend them. What I wanted to tell you is that we are also thinking about introducing a mechanism to determine the capacity of the largest schools. The municipalities also have the opportunity to reconcile the reception in the first grade in terms of whether a full-time organisation has been provided. In many places, no full - time organization is provided for all first - grade students. From the point of view of whether they have enough classrooms, this will still be linked to capacity and not to train in suitable basements or roofs, as well as from the point of view of the goal of phased transition to single mode. All this should lead to a more equal distribution of students between schools in the territory of large cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u68	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Dora Yankova. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Minister Valchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about building a school annex to the school in the village of Kasaka, Dospat municipality. Mr. Minister, last year at that time I raised the question of one of the big villages in Dospat municipality with a detained population and with students who, unfortunately, were studying at the smallest school. You committed yourself to exploring the opportunities for financial resources and with a project from the municipality can start building an annex. To date, the annex has begun to be built, for which I would like to thank you on behalf of my constituents, on behalf of the residents of Kasaka and Dospat municipality. However, perhaps in the work of the local authorities, which is probably a mistake, but this is the mayor's right, perhaps there should have been a meeting to explain: we would have built how many rooms, with what financial resources, when the school would be opened, how it would be furnished. In the absence of this information, I have asked you a question today from the stands to announce what is the financial resources that the Ministry has allocated. Do you have information and it is natural to have, as this is a community school partnership project supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, how many rooms will be furnished and furnished, will the children in this school year be able or the financial resources will be used during the calendar, when the annex will be opened. These are good questions that residents are excited about and interested in. In the spirit of publicity and awareness, I ask you to answer from the platform of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for asking me the question that you put it in the autumn of last year, and it was also put by the mayor of Dospat Municipality, as it is important. We can only be glad that we have schools like this in the village of Kasaka, where there are enough children and the material base is short. Accordingly, our responsibility is within the limits of budgetary opportunities to support the completion of premises in these schools. To this end, at the first stage in September 2017, we granted 170 thousand. lv. As a result of the commitment made to you by Dospat Municipality they sent us a Project for the extension of the school. The project provides for building rooms for classrooms that are small size 4 pieces for 12 students and 1 classroom for 18 students, as well as a room with an area of 45 sq. m and a height of 3.5 m for gymnastics, but it is more suitable for a gym for sports games. In order to start repairs in the village of Kasaka, we decided to finance an annex of a school building. Construction is divided into two stages. The first stage is the construction of the first floor with the installation of a temporary roof, and the second stage is the final completion of the annex, including energy efficiency activities, for which, as I told you, we have granted 170 thousand. lv. The contract for a construction contract was concluded by the Municipality of Dospat as a contracting entity on 14 June 2018. The deadline for implementing the construction under the signed contract was 88 days. On 17 July 2018, an Act model 2 for the opening of a construction site and the start of construction was signed. In order to carry out the activities and to create normal conditions for the conduct of the learning process, we provided the insufficient funds under the construction contract of 193 thousand. BGN, so total we've provided over 360 thousand. lv. This is also in relation to the question that your colleagues put in the previous question. In many schools we can provide the good conditions for work only with completion, and many schools that are two shifts can pass on one shift, only by building additional premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u72	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Valchev, I would like to congratulate you on your attitude towards the Rhodope region because the demographic problems are serious. The policy of the state to have a good school, a good educational environment is the presence of both state and statehood. In recent years, few rural schools have been built. That's a lot for Dospat Municipality, for the village of Kasaka. In parallel, I asked the question at the time, because construction is slow. I suppose these 88 days will be respected. It would not be good to start the learning process, but to be the operating mode in the other part of the annex. I hope that in dialogue with the mayor and with the company he is building, they can strain the resources, so at least if they end up on rough construction or finish the annex at the beginning of the school year or Buddhist Day, you can come to Castle and find the annex. Once again, I would like to say that it is good when questions are raised, when there is basically a relation to a region, to the school environment, things work out. I am personally satisfied with your answer. Thank you and I think this is a state policy for the Rhodopes, for the Rhodopes region and for the children in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. We continue with the next question to Minister Valchev, who is from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Innovative schools are schools of the future. They make a targeted change by introducing innovative practices that solve a number of organizational and meaningful problems. In order for a school to be innovative, it must prove that it has the opportunity to improve the quality of education by developing and introducing innovative elements in the organisation and content of the training, to organise in a new way management, training, educational environment, to use new teaching methods, to develop new learning content, programs, plans. You mean break the tradition, the thinking of both the students and the teachers and the parents. In this regard is my question about the state and future development of the network of innovative schools in Bulgaria, namely: the academic year 2017/2018 was the first in which, according to the Preschool and School Education Act, innovative schools started as a model of this education. What is the score, Minister, at the current stage after what the Ministry has done, which you are in charge of, monitoring? Are the expectations for improving educational results and improving the quality of training justified? The second part of my question: what is to come in the future for the expansion and validation of the network of innovative schools and, including, is the standard for supporting a student expected to change in innovative schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, in accordance with art. 73 of the Regulation on institutions in the system of pre-school and school education was established a Commission for Innovative Schools with the participation of sociologists, psychologists, pedagogical specialists, representatives of the scientific community, natural and legal persons with proven experience in the creation and application of innovations in the field of education, science and technology. The Commission has examined and evaluated the school innovation projects submitted to the Ministry of Education and Science in the course of 2018 and has proposed a draft list of innovative schools. By decision of the Council of Ministers on 9 July this year the list of innovative schools for the next school year was adopted. The same committee has also carried out monitoring in the period March "June 2018" for schools included in the list of innovative schools for the 2017 school year. The heads of regional education departments have also performed monitoring of innovative activities in schools from relevant areas and are about to give opinions in the Ministry of Education and Science on the results of the innovative process. An analysis of the progress of innovative schools is to be prepared based on the opinions of regional education departments. The requested self-assessment reports of school information published by schools, on-the-spot checks carried out. To a large extent, innovative schools report increasing the results of the educational process compared to the results shown during the first period of 2017. 2018 indicate that they achieve an improvement in the quality of education through the innovative elements introduced with regard to the organisation and content of training, through the proposed new teaching methods, the newly developed educational content, curricula and curricula or the newly organised management, training and educational environment. Many schools, especially smaller rural schools and those working with vulnerable groups, have good ideas and practices. Their efforts are aimed at the scope and retention of students at school as well as their quality literacy. Innovative schools carry out targeted, planned and controlled changes through the introduction of an innovative practice that solves organizational and meaningful problems in the educational process. Good practices that have been realized in the form of a new educational product or an advanced process used in practical activity are to be highlighted. Following an evaluation analysis, the Commission for Innovative Schools will propose an update of the list. In short, if I have to sum up, we have a first year in which we have work on innovation projects, perhaps more accurate is to talk about schools with approved innovation projects and not innovative schools, as these projects may cover a limited number or a small part of the elements of the environment, but this is the legal definition of innovative schools and we are working with it. We are yet to get the evaluation of the results. We're working on it right now. They start work in the second year. We even have schools that have an approved second innovation project. That doesn't make them twice as innovative, they just expanded the elements that would be different from conventional norms. If we talk about conceptually, these innovations are very important to the system. All education systems face the challenge that today we can increasingly meet the challenges of ever faster and faster time with instructions from above and below to the system, with that approach by which the Ministry gives precise instructions either through educational standards or other legal documents. An increasing degree of development of a system will depend on the innovation energy and creativity of the school, i.e. to an increasing extent the change will take place from the bottom up and these are challenges for modern educational institutions to be innovative and creative, and to be changing institutions according to the environment. We must encourage innovation to a maximum extent, of course, that a reasonable dose of caution is also needed. This should not be self-innovation, should not be innovations that divert the achievement of the objectives of education policy. These innovations must be aimed at improving quality and access to education. Therefore, we are also cautious about funding. If innovation is financed initially, we would create incentives for self-innovation. We will discuss the issue of financing innovation once we have the first or perhaps the first two reports and since we have undisputed evidence that the educational results resulting from these innovations have been improved, and once we have made a decision, including spreading good innovation to other educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u78	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mrs. Petrova, to ask two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u79	I would like to thank Minister Valchev for his thoughts on the subject. This topic with innovative schools is new, but it has its future and it is good that the Ministry has the will after the monitoring and the reports, the information from which will be processed, to consider changing the standard of financing. You said there was an update on the list of innovative schools. Since this list, with the second wave, has been extended, I would like to ask you: is there willpower and expectations to be released from schools that have not defended the expectations of innovation, i.e. schools to be written off from the list of innovative ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u81	Thank you. Each innovation project approved shall contain specific objectives and performance indicators. This was one of the difficult tasks when the projects were approved. That is why it was necessary to set up such a committee with specialists in different areas. Each innovation is different and it must be assessed differently, but at the same time with sufficiently relevant indicators. Yes, and in the Regulation this is set, schools that have failed to implement the innovation projects will be written off the list. What I neglected to say in my main answer is that we foresee this to be one of the topics on which to provoke a wider discussion, both in the school education system and perhaps with a wider public, including with you, the MPs, in the coming school year. It is precisely for these reasons that I have told you that they are very important to us, this topic of innovation is very important, the innovation factor in the educational system is extremely important. Soon we will have the full report and the full evaluation of the Commission, which will also lead us to these discussions, but I do not wish these discussions to be just on the projects already implemented. I would like them to be wider on the importance of innovation how we stimulate this energy, but at the same time not to allow unwelcome innovations that are not in line with the objectives of education policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor to express your attitude to the answer, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I declare my desire and the desire of colleagues who have been involved in innovation for a long time and who are recognizable of our proposals in the field of innovative education. Thank you for the idea of making a forum to include specialists, experienced principals of schools to show a completely different style of organization of school education as a model for a modern, real education expected by parents. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Thank you, Minister Valchev, for participating in the control today. We continue with questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is from the MP Georgi Stoilov. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Over 100,000 farmers are applying for the campaign for direct area payments. Upon completion of the acceptance, the procedures and checks shall be carried out. After their results, based on your orders, Mr. Minister, on rates for each of the schemes and measures is transferred to payments and, accordingly, the campaign ends. However, there is an essential point here for farmers and, for, I would say, 90% of them, on the timely receipt of the notification letters for authorisation and paid financial support under schemes and direct payment measures for the campaign concerned. My questions are related to this and they are: Has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry been informed and personally you about unsent notification letters of authorisation and paid financial support under schemes and measures for campaigns 2015 and 2016 and 2017? Is there a timetable for these campaigns 2015, 2016 and is there control of the timely sending of the notification letters for the 2017 campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u87	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoilov! 14 new application schemes with applications for direct payments entered into force in 2015 in Campaign, which required that the type of notification letter sent to applicants under the schemes and measures after the authorisation of all payments should be completely changed. The notifications for Campaign 2015 and the following campaigns, unlike those issued since 2014, are integrated. These include seven components of the system of payments linked to aid and the data under the 12th prize and the water framework directive. They also reflect all the changes from the new CAP, which include the 14 new schemes mentioned, the introduction of payment ceilings, SPS, active farmer, the imposition of the Yellow Cards warning system and the Financial discipline and many others. The extension of the deadline for submission of campaign documents 2016 and 2017, which coincides with the payments of the previous campaign set out in an indicative timetable, numerous additional administrative checks and payments for the programming campaign 2014-2020, led to a delay in the payment of notification letters to farmers' expectations. It should be noted that integrated notification letters are issued after completion of all legally defined checks, calculated and paid subsidies. In other words, its issuance is the result of reporting data from the past period and should not create discomfort for farmers in their main activity. The purpose of the notification letters is to provide full information to beneficiaries about their applications and the results of their checks. It shall specify the areas declared and eligible for support, the amounts approved for support under the individual schemes and measures, the penalties and the adjustments thereto, and the table attached to the letter shall provide the form of the total support amount. After issuing and receiving integrated notification letters pursuant to art. 81, para. 1 of the APC, it may be challenged by administrative order before the above administrative authority within the time limits laid down by law or before an administrative court, according to the rules of art. 133, para. 1 of the APC. In this way, it is possible for beneficiaries' rights to be protected and for them to be able to express their possible disagreements with the data reflected in the letters. At present, for Campaign 2015 all 65 506 notices of authorisation and financial support paid under the schemes and measures for direct payments based on campaign area 2015 have been drawn up and sent to the beneficiaries. More than 23 000 of the notification letters are under the tied aid schemes for animals, such as 41 318 letters of candidates under the Transitional National Aid Scheme for Tobacco Unbound with Production, as well as over 2000 letters under measure 11 of the RDP. In short, the notification letters under all the schemes and measures included in the aid application, with the exception of those under measure 10 of the RDP, which are in the process of drawing up, have been drawn up. The preparation and issuance of letters from 2016. Yes, it is delayed. As regards the 2017 letters, the checks and final authorizations for some of the RDP measures, which are part of the overall application for support submitted by the applicants for direct payments, have not yet been completed. In addition, we would like to inform you that the State Fund is one of the few institutions that have created a slender system of links with applicants by providing protected individual username and password access to the application data of each candidate on the Fund's website. There is information available from the declared areas in the SHP format, the notified letters of established overlaps, the areas outside the eligible support layer, the authorised and paid amounts for each individual campaign, including the notified letters issued so far. In the event that beneficiaries do not have the opportunity to deal personally with Internet access, they shall have the opportunity to turn for assistance to the respective municipal agriculture office for assistance. Summarizing. You also know very well that the notification letters are issued with a certain delay. The truth is that they have already become so complex that they are no longer any letters, but are small books in which to describe and do absolutely everything. It is certainly a priority to make payments on time. This year I think we did better in the campaign, which is at the expense of last year. There is only the welfare of cattle and sheep, which will happen in the coming month, and the notification letters go with a lag of delay. These 14 schemes, which turned out to be linked, I mentioned them, they loaded the infinite administrative fund into the overall processing. So whether or not we have a schedule is not the most important, we are in the Ministry as well as you, as well as farmers. Yes, it is a problem for those for whom there is a sum that is not authorized, and they would like to mourn it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, thank you for your precise and clear answer. Indeed, it is most worrying for farmers who have sanctions and corrections. Failure to receive letters in time does not therefore enable them to defend their interests and to seek their rights in the appropriate order. I hope that in the new year it will already catch up for 2016 and for 2017 everything will go as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. A hole, Mr. Minister. No. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is again from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, the Agricultural Academy is chronically underfunded, which creates problems in the work of the scientific institutes and the state enterprises to fulfil their direct duties. With a change of the Agricultural Academy Act of this year, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has committed itself to adjusting the budget of the Agricultural Academy by an additional 10 million. lv. This obligation is reflected in the financial justification of the Law, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and therefore voted here in the National Assembly. My question is: has a budget correction of the Agricultural Academy been made; what are the obligations of the institutions and state enterprises towards staff and suppliers by May 2018; and is there an increase in the salaries of employees in science envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u93	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, over the last five years the approved expenditure on the budget of the Agricultural Academy as a secondary officer with a budget to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests amounted to 22 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. for the budget year. According to the Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act with effect from 1 April 2018, the Academy is an autonomous budgetary organisation with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which forms, implements and takes into account a budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme of the Public Finance Act. This is something new, which thanks to you has also changed in the Law a positive element for financial autonomy of the Academy itself. I'll tell you more in this direction. According to the mid-term budget forecast established by Decision No 264 of 19 April 2018 of the Council of Ministers, the transfers that the Academy will receive from the state budget for the period 2019 " 2021" are as follows: 23,5 million.; 2019 - 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.; 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. leva. In addition to the funding received from the state budget, the Academy as an autonomous budgetary organisation may incur expenses at the expense of its own revenues. The consolidated fiscal programme for 2019 is estimated as follows: revenue by year "37.5" for 2019, 39,9 "2020," 41,1 " 2021." It is apparent from the information provided that the changes to the Agricultural Academy Act created all prerequisites for its normal functioning and overcoming the problem of chronic underfinancing from previous years. I'm going to give you a few numbers that emerge this year to confirm financial autonomy. This year, the additional transfer requested to the Ministry of Finance becomes 17 million. $700,000. lv. It shall be made available regularly in monthly instalments. The estimated revenue is 7.2 million, or a total cost of 24.9 million. Only until now, on the basis of financial autonomy, the income of the Agricultural Academy for the second quarter is 4 million, or in total for the first half is 6.7 million. We expect for the second half of 8 to 9 million. own revenues, which means that the Academy's revenue will be between 15 and 16 million. At least, or that's 10 million. More revenue than bets. It is precisely the financial autonomy that we give to the Academy that enables the 10 million already. lv. to be spent above the cost ceiling, which is of 24 million. So the transfer of 17.7 plus the revenue that emerges as additional gives this opportunity. On this basis, the parameters I gave you for the 2019 framework are also read. A little bit of duty. According to § 16 and § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the amended Law, four experienced stations, state enterprises and two experimental bases, whose assets and liabilities, as well as other rights and obligations, are included in the Academy. As of the same date, these undertakings had outstanding liabilities of 519 thousand. BGN, including for salaries and insurance of 131 thousand. lv. As of March 31st, the Agricultural Academy before its participation in the six state-owned enterprises had overdue liabilities of 361 thousand. BGN and state-owned enterprises have overdue liabilities of 1 million. 358,000. BGN, including 519 thousand. lv. at the four experimental stations, state enterprises and both experimental bases. As of 31 May, the overdue debts of the Agricultural Academy amounted to 729 thousand. BGN, including 289 thousand. lv. to the four established scientific centers and both experimental bases. From 1 April began the repayment of the debts accumulated by state enterprises prior to their transfer to the Academy. By July 1st, they were paid in the amount of 352 thousand. BGN, including salaries, social security and benefits of 173 thousand. lv. and to repay one of the State-owned enterprises loans amounting to 71 thousand. lv. As of May 31st, the overdue liabilities of state-owned enterprises were nearly one million leva, including 499 thousand. lv. for salaries and insurance. Regarding the increase in the salary of those employed in science in the implementation of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 316 from 20 December 2017 to determine a new amount of minimum wage for the country, the minimum wages are increased, as unfortunately they receive more than 60% of the employees of the Academy. For the first time in almost eight years employees' incomes have been increased, and the additional remuneration for scientific degree has been increased to a doctor of 150 BGN. at BGN 210, for a PhD of Science from BGN 180. to 310 BGN, increased the allowance for acquired professional experience from 1% to 1,1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman! Minister, currently the budget of the Agricultural Academy, as you said earlier, is about 23 million, including 17 million subsidies. As is clear to everyone, these funds are completely insufficient, given that around 1,800 people work in this institution. Young scientists are less and less willing to work at the Academy, not so young. This is due not only to the low pay but also to the poor condition of the material and technical base, the lack of new equipment, laboratories and their poor condition. I couldn't hear in your answer what the average salary is at the Agricultural Academy and will it be updated? Having regard to the fact that we have your written reply from a colleague of ours, where it is specified and clearly stated that from January 2018 to 30 June 2018, the total costs of the Agricultural Academy are around 19 million. This automatically leads to the result that there are about 4 million left in the second half of 2018. I repeat, for the first six months we have 19 million costs and for the second six months there are 4 million left. How will the salaries of the employees of the Agricultural Academy be paid, and according to the information you have just pointed out, there are obligations for about three months back in the insurance budget and others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u97	I'll just repeat that the Agricultural Academy is now autonomous as such. Therefore, all own revenues, which can be realised over the waged little over 7 million, and they will be at least 10 million more, remain available to the Agricultural Academy with the possibility of capital expenditure, for science, for their own use. Yes, a little more delicate is the topic of wages, because their wage feather is controlled at fiscal level, on a consolidated framework, including the Ministry. They cannot bid on them, they must be within, but within the framework of the very implementation of scientific collectives and others there are sufficient opportunities in which to be further materially stimulated for activities carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MP Rumen Georgiev. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My question was asked three weeks ago when the plague crisis on small ruminants was at its peak. Dear Minister, in the Annual Report on the State and Development of Agriculture, on the 2017 Agrarian Report, p. 133, p. 7.1. One of the priority tasks of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is to protect the health of agricultural animals from the occurrence of dangerous viral infections associated with major economic losses. The report noted that for the purpose of achieving these priorities in 2016 a support scheme for farmers continues to be applied in the implementation of the measures set out in the National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases and by-products in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2016 - 2018. For the first time this programme was prepared for a period of three years in order to provide timely delivery of diagnostics and vaccines necessary for its implementation. The activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are aimed at reducing the risk of the emergence and spread of acute and exotic infectious animal diseases, given the geographical location of our country. To this end, national disease surveillance programmes shall be implemented. Unfortunately, there have been more questions on this case than answers. I'll just say some of the problems of the case. From the point of view of the legal and legal basis was not respected art. 126 of the Animal Health Act, para. 2. in which, in the case of particularly dangerous infectious diseases whose spread can cause significant economic losses, the measures under para. 1 shall be introduced into part of the territory or throughout the country on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, agreed with the Minister of Interior. Unfortunately, the order was signed by Nikolai Rossnev, who is deputy executive and is an agronomic. There are two veterinarians at the Agency, and it was signed by an agronomic. It wasn't respected and so on. 1 of the Order itself. Invited killing in a humane way. At the very beginning, you know that there were both footage and signals from citizens for inhuman slaughter. The Practical Guide to Fighting the Plague was also not respected. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I am graduating, Mr. Chairman, in small ruminants and approved in January this year, which is part of the operational plan for the eradication of animal diseases and has been ignored. Therefore, my two questions to you, Minister, are: what is the reason for the outbreak of small ruminants in June 2018 in the Strandja region; and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency responded adequately to the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, once again I would like to stress that the legislation in issuing the orders has been fully respected! The Law clearly gives the distinction when the Minister of Agriculture together with the Minister of Interior signs when specific individual orders are issued by the Executive Director of the Food Agency. Detailed signature of these regulatory requirements we have uploaded to the page as soon as you put this question. This has also been done in recent years in all the diseases that are of this nature. Therefore, in my opinion, there should not be another suggestion on this subject. As far as I know, you have something in mind, you sent a corresponding signal, let's check it out. But constantly repeating one thing that, in my opinion, is absolutely false, I think it is not the least correct. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is implementing a National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases in Bulgaria 2016 - 2018 approved by Decision No 320 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. Part of this programme also includes precautions against certain cross-border animal diseases. These are foot-and-mouth disease, small ruminants plague, sheep and goat pox, lumpy skin disease, bluetongue and so on. The implementation of the programme shall be carried out by carrying out clinical examinations, serological and virological tests, with the primary objective of timely and early detection. Clinical examinations are carried out by official veterinarians at least once a month in the southern border administrative districts of Burgas, Yambol, Haskovo, Kardzhali, Smolyan, Blagoevgrad. During clinical examinations blood samples shall be taken from small ruminants to detect antibodies against foot-and-mouth disease virus and small ruminants plague. The surveillance carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency until May 2018 under the cross-border disease programme shows that the disease of small ruminants was not present in the country, i.e. no antibodies were detected in the laboratory analyses carried out. In June this year, for the first time in Bulgaria and the European Union confirmed the plague on small ruminants in the immediate vicinity of the Turkish border. Here are the outbreaks, there is no point in quoting them, because we have repeatedly mentioned them, including on Friday at a special hearing. The outbreaks were established by the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Medical Institute and subsequently confirmed by the European Union reference laboratory for small ruminants CIRAD in France on 23 June. For another three of the settlements or for a total of four we have confirmations from the French laboratory. The source of the infection has not yet been clearly identified. This is one of your questions, but continue the research itself. A phylogenetic analysis of the cause is to be carried out, which will shed more light on the matter. There is a failure to comply with the biosecurity measures in the country's establishments by the owners. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency immediately took the necessary legal measures to limit and eradicate the disease. The measures are imposed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency and include: killing animals, bans on movement of humans, animals, raw materials and food of animal origin, feed materials, compound feed and so on. European Union policy does not provide for preventive vaccination for particularly dangerous animal viral diseases such as small ruminants plague. I've explained it in advance about the live vaccine, which takes a special order and so on. It's a very long subject to get into three minutes. The disease measures imposed by BABBH aim to limit and eradicate the disease in the affected regions through enhanced supervision for early detection and destruction of infected animals and to protect the rest of the country from spread of the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I therefore began at the beginning with the fact that the question was asked by me three weeks ago when the topic was up to date, but I am still obliged to raise it again in three weeks, as I have concrete proposals. First, before Deputy Minister Tsvetan Dimitrov was released, he himself acknowledged weaknesses in the organization at the beginning that there was no individual approach to notification of the explanatory campaign. You know, it started in Yambol, in Bolyarovo, in Burgas. In this regard, the problem is serious and perhaps we should put some questions in the Committee on Agriculture and Food and consider whether the very structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is working, effective or needs restructuring in order to bring about the importance of veterinary medicine, as, you know, African plague, avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease occurs from the north, now the small ruminants plague. And perhaps I will also suggest to our parliamentary group the National Animal Disease Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination Programme in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is already three years old, as you yourself said 2016 "2018," to be distributed, to be examined and adopted by Parliament, as this will indeed be an extremely important issue from now on, and that is why I have asked this parliamentary question again today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Georgiev, you know that we are in absolutely meaningful and fruitful contact with both you and the entire Commission. So for any well-founded, analysed, I don't want to make sense, enough is the first proposal, we're always open, me and the team to make... I'm not going back to whether or not there are weaknesses. But I would like to tell you that, including before Sharkovo and the other two villages of Strandja and Kranitsa, yes, there were meetings, there was a list of over 50 farmers, with the mayors. That at some point maybe one or two were not directly notified... But it wasn't done by the mayors. Yeah, that's getting better. That's why we already have district headquarters, these district headquarters doing in a situation that has been created, even now, if it appears somewhere positive, we sit down, we see it and we look at it. We're doing the district headquarters, the mayor and I are warning people, showing the sample. So there was no problem until you showed up from last Saturday, I don't want... I'm putting a multipoint here and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. The next question is to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. He's from the MP Elena Axieva. You have the floor, Mrs. Axieva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Minister, my question is about monitoring and monitoring the reclamation plan as a result of the activities of a career in the village of Belashtitsa. As a MP from the 16th Mir of Plovdiv, many people contact me and share their concerns about the extraction of natural resources in the village of Belashtitsa, where two careers are divided and operated. Career "Rodopi" "Northern" provided to "Holsim Career Materials" Plovdiv "AD," and career "Rodopi" South "Supported to "The Roads" JSC. The estimated total yield area of the locality of Belashtitsa, including the two quarries, amounts to 53 hectares. This is a completely modified and deformed vast area of mountain territory. The Council of Ministers shall lay down as a condition for the concession to be carried out the concession holder to prepare and, where necessary, update a project for the re-cultivation of the terrains and after its approval by the competent authorities to implement the approved re-cultivation events required within the period of the concession of 20 years during which the plan for the re-cultivation of destroyed terrains should be implemented with the permission of 2000. Photo and video evidence that the consequences and scale of the destruction are obvious. It is also obvious that there is no trace of the compulsory re-cultivation actions by the Council of Ministers, which should be carried out by the concessionaire companies until the end of the agreed relations. The state of the tens of years of areas developed shows that such reclamation has not been carried out or if it has been carried out, it is inefficient. My question is: what is the monitoring approach and control that the Ministry exercises in relation to the implementation of the planned reconstruction activities of the violated terrains due to the two concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, in the past, Belashtitsa's career was exploited by state-owned enterprises which, under the legislation at the time, had the relevant rights to develop and use this locality. Subsequently presented, as you mentioned, two concessions for two sections of the field as follows. The Belashtitsa field. By decision of December 2000, the Council of Ministers decided to grant a concession for the locality of Belashtitsa to the town of Plovdiv. This is a commercial company within the meaning of § 56, par. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Conversion and Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises. The concession contract was concluded in 2001, with two additional agreements both concluded so far in 2008. The concession period is 20 years and expires in 2021. The fulfilment of obligations under the concession contract shall be verified once a year, according to a timetable established by the Minister of Energy. These are mandatory checks where there are alerts, and appropriate exceptional checks shall be carried out. In addition, during the on-the-spot checks carried out in 2015, 2016 and 2017, there were no outstanding cash and non-cash liabilities of the concession contract concluded. In accordance with art. 6, p. 15 of the concession contract, the concessionaire is obliged to provide for in the annual work projects funds and measures for the regeneration and protection of the environment and water. At present, the future reclamation activities are secured by the concessionaire financially by recalculating funds in a special purpose account. As of July 2018, the funds raised amounted to 490 thousand. lv. With regard to the measures for recalculation, it should be noted that the approved annual project for the operation of the career of Bellashtitsa "Rhodopi" for 2018 was developed a project for the release of the area, liquidation and recalculation in 2018, where it is stated that the technical reclamation for each worked horizon should begin immediately after its liquidation and is a preparation for the next biological recalculation. The biological regeneration of areas will be undertaken after the breakthrough-explosion works have been completed on three horizons below them in order to eliminate the adverse effects on the wooded land, namely seismics, emissions from the explosion of harmful gases, the disposal of stones. In the checks carried out by the specialized administration of the Ministry of Energy it has been found that there is no fully worked horizon so far, which is why partial reconstruction activity of the site has not been carried out so far. As regards the preparation and presentation of a complete reclamation project, it should be noted that the concession contract concluded in 2001 did not set a deadline for its deposit. I mean, according to the provision of art. 10, para. 3, p. 4 of the concession contract, the concessionaire is obliged to draw up a complete project to re-cultivate the terrains and, after the approval of the project by the competent authorities, to carry out the approved re-cultivation events required. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, under the 2001 contract, this obligation was not bound by a deadline. In relation to the provisions of the concession contract, I should inform you that, over the last year, experts in the Ministry of Energy carried out an analysis of concession contracts for the extraction of underground wealth concluded in previous periods by different ministries representing the concession. The verification found that in a number of concession contracts there are provisions for the granting of a reclamation project without a fixed deadline for the fulfilment of the obligation and a penalty for default. In relation to the findings, various options and proposals for a change in the legal framework regarding the Law on Underground Treasures are discussed, which will unify the obligations provided for the reclamation project for all concessionaires by setting a mandatory deadline for the fulfilment of these obligations. In August 2008, the Council of Ministers decided to grant a concession for the locality [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The concession contract was concluded in 2008, entered into force since 1997, the deadline is 25 years and expires in 2022. The concessionaire allocates the necessary resources. At present, this resource exceeds more than 240 thousand. lv. Thank you. [[Mister Temenuzhka Petkova apologizes to the President for delaying the time.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. It was an interesting topic. Mrs. Axieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am generally not satisfied with the answer. I don't think it's normal for this concession to be 18 years old, and until now there's no plan to reclamate. This is generally required by contract. I don't think it's normal for this money to be spent on such a huge territory for how long do you think it'll be able to reclamate? The other is that there is a Regulation on the requirements for the scope and content of work projects for search and research or for the exploration, extraction and primary processing of underground riches, for the liquidation and/or conservation of geo-explosive and mining sites, for the reconstruction of the affected lands and for the conditions and arrangements for their coordination. According to her, in art. 8, para. 2 says this. The authorisation holder shall submit for coordination a comprehensive work project for a period of up to 30 days from the date of entry into force of the contract concerned, unless another period is specified in the contract which may not be longer than 60 days from the date of entry into force of the contract concerned. The holder shall implement and enter into force an act in accordance with the environmental regulations. What I liked about your speech was for proposals to change the law, so that in fact all these concession contracts should be respected more strictly and set out within the time frame for these reclamation plans. Agree that in order to jump so many people and unite, it seems to be really interfering with both them and the health "there are constant explosions, dirt, I have been there many times, on the spot, and there is extreme tension among the society. So I hope that you will take timely measures and resolve this problem in any way in the future, as the concession expires in 2021. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In our opinion, there should be no such extraction, since the necessary rules are not followed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Axieva, you have very rightly noticed the main focus in the answer and it relates to the fact that the review that we did at the Ministry of Energy shows that there have been contracts concluded in the distant years 2000 to 2001, which contracts were then concluded under the legislation in force. As you have mentioned, this legislation has undergone appropriate development over the years, and it practically requires concrete changes to be made. There is something else that you also mentioned... unless the contract provides otherwise. And since these contracts provide for slightly different commitments, each concessionaire is provided for the commitment to reclamation, it is laid down as his obligation. However, there is no specific deadline within which he must deposit this project. This is what we see as a certain problem and a certain risk, which is why we are developing such changes in the Law on Underground Treasures and autumn we will propose to the National Assembly for discussion, I hope we will also receive support, and in fact these concessionaires will be obliged to present their work project within a certain time frame, which I hope we will jointly determine exactly what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u114	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the questions to Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. The first question is from the National Representative Dimitar Ivanov Danchev on the state laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" Ltd. Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the beginning of June this year, I learned that the company, through which it operates, has been changed to the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirit Drinks and Essential Oils. In view of the existence of a company established in its industry as the State Laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" Ltd., such a situation raises ambiguity in me and raises relevant questions. First, for what purpose was the change made in the name of the National Institute for the Study of Wine and Spirit Drinks and does this change in any way concern the future activities of the State Laboratory of Bulgarian Rose? Second, is it envisaged that with this change one of the two enterprises "National Institute for the Study of Wine and Spirit Drinks" and the State Laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" or their units will be taken out of the list "Annex No 1" under art. 3 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u116	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u117	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Danchev, first of all, thank you for the question, in the end I will say why. The sole owner of the capital of the National Institute for the Study of Wine and Spirit Drinks and the State Laboratory of Bulgarian Rose is a state-owned consolidation company. In this capacity in March this year, the company has decided to change the name of NIIWBN Ltd. from the National Institute for the Study of Wine and Spirit Drinks.The National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirit Drinks and Essential Oils.The company has functions for testing essential oils and cosmetic products and production of essential oils, cosmetic raw materials and final forms. The decisions are listed in the Trade Register. The aim of the change is to provide opportunities for a fuller use of the laboratory's capacity to the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirit Drinks and Essential Oils. In order to continue the policy of the State Consolidated Company for Optimization of the Composition, Structure and Activity of the subsidiaries by Protocol of 23 May 2018, the Executive Director of the Company has decided to convert the State Laboratory by means of an investment in the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirit Drinks and Essential Oils. As of the date of entry of the infusion, the State Laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" is deleted and the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirits and Essential Oils becomes its universal beneficiary, with all the assets and liabilities of the transforming company passing over to the receiving company. In this way, the material base and the activities of the two like companies will be united. The transformation of the State Laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" through an education at the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirits and Essential Oils is not aimed at creating conditions for privatization of the company. For the National Institute for the Study of Wine, Spirit Drinks and Essential Oils, removal from the list is not envisaged. 3 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, that is, the Company is on the ban list. The Bulgarian Rose Company will be removed from this list for the reason that the company flows into the National Institute for Wine and Spirit Research. I must say that separate parts cannot be sold under the legislation you have adopted very soon, as they must pass through the National Assembly and this cannot be done without your consent. Why was this done? At present, the State Laboratory of Bulgarian Rose does not have the necessary base and laboratory equipment for full implementation of the subject of activity. The financial situation of the Company does not allow the realization of the necessary investments to acquire the status of accredited laboratory. In its specific activity, the Company relies rather on the long-standing experience of the staff it has at its disposal, which will be reserved.. I specifically want to say this.........................................................................................and on material base and technical equipment. With available staff, supporting material equipment and base, a huge financial resource will be needed. At the Institute for Wine Research and Spirit Drinks there is an existing base "I would even invite you to go and look at it there really is an equipment that will help. I want to thank you first, to invite you all to see what we did at the Institute. I will draw attention to the state consolidation company and to the Institute itself that they should return the name "Bulgarian Rose" and it should be leading. Another thing we foresee, in the premises of the Bulgarian Rose, which cannot be used as a laboratory, will be made a Museum of Essential Oils and Wines, so that the visitors of Sofia can get acquainted with the Bulgarian traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I have some concerns because I have spoken with several of the last directors of the State Laboratory - Bulgarian Rose and they, as I, express their concern that in this case it is about some hidden privatisation of the State Laboratory - Bulgarian Rose - which will practically lead to its actual destruction. First of all, because one such merger of the two companies of the Institute for Wine and the Laboratory is a blow, above all, to the image of a company that was founded nearly 100 years ago, I am talking about the enterprise "Bulgarian Rose." This undertaking works with a relatively closed round of counterparties that could easily withdraw their trust, which would practically mean the end of its activity. The two undertakings have never had similar activities. They were very different in their years of activity. Apart from that, the Institute of Wine after one privatisation of a separate part also suffered, unfortunately, a poor development in terms of its financial stability. In this sense, such unifications should, in my view, be coordinated with the counterparties of both undertakings, which, as I understand it, in relation to the conversations I have had has not happened. The second concern is that a merger is being made, again I say, to an undertaking I am referring to the Institute of Wine, which is practically empty of content and already with practically minor activity merges with another undertaking, which, although relatively, is still in good financial condition and is of profit. The merger of such an undertaking with another undertaking, which is not in such a colourful financial condition, is probably an equation with a fatal end for both participants. And here it is important to remember the story, because, according to my information, in 2010 attempts were made to privatize the State Laboratory "Bulgarian Rose" and then they were halted by respected representatives, unfortunately, now the hall is empty, but by representatives of the party "Ataka". I very much hope that this position of my fellow Members, although not present here at this time, has not changed and they will support this position of preserving this enterprise now through you. Moreover, at one of the first cabinet meetings of Borisov 3 in May last year a decision was taken to announce almost a full moratorium on privatisation. You personally then protected this cabinet position brightly. I now hope that although these amendments to the Law, which were then discussed and supported by the entire cabinet, do not enter the National Assembly, you, as their author, will stand for these positions precisely to preserve the few remaining state property and will prevent any attempt at its privatisation as harmful and as one that does not correspond mostly to the policy stated by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u120	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to take a look at the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u121	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, I would like to say categorically that privatization cannot be talked about either hidden or otherwise, because the company itself is on the ban list. What is successor is not the goal of privatization. On the subject, you said that you spoke to former CEOs of the company. It is nice for them to tell you that unfortunately the Bulgarian rose has not worked for years. Her main income was from renting out a room, notice, for which there is currently a legal dispute over property law, not property. That's the reason. Since a deal was made at the Institute of Spirit Drinks about two years ago, a property was sold, they had the means to make it, they really built a laboratory. Many of the technical means used to analyse wines and spirits are used in the analysis of essential oils. I won't tell you the technique itself, because I don't know them either. So please come and see, there were really many things done there. On this topic I already have several meetings with representatives of the rose producers. If I can call them that, even next week I do, they will also benefit from this technology. That's what you can count on. The other thing is, we work very actively at the Institute for Spirit Drinks. The control that is being carried out is being given as an example by the judiciary at the moment for analysis in cases of this analysis to be done by this structure. We really have a very nice laboratory, premises also extremely good, which meet the requirements for a laboratory, but for privatisation in no way will it be spoken and cannot be spoken according to the Bulgarian legislation. What I commit to: The Bulgarian rose is a name leading in the name of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Karanikolov is from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dimitar Danchev. It is about the lack of adequate road infrastructure for the services of the Economic Zone of Sofia-Bozhurishte. Mr. Chenchev, you're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. First of all, Mr. Minister, thank you for taking our matter with our colleague. Secondly, I am aware that a month is coming up, which is relaxing. I wish you to be effective in it, because institutions must not stop their work in order to be in the interests of citizens. About a month ago, I was also present, residents of Toleva neighborhood, the town of Bozhurishte, went out to protest, was mass. People complain about constantly passing under their windows heavy vehicles and transport chaos in the region due to the development of the Industrial Zone Sofia-Bozhurishte. Apropo: Of course, besides noise, we are talking about a solid disruption of infrastructure and normal and resonant people are worried. The protest was attended by representatives of companies and investors from the Industrial Zone, who, in turn, also supported, of course, the civil protest, because they suffer from the lack of adequate infrastructure to serve the area. Here, by the way, they have expressed their support and intentions for future such protests if they do not want to resolve the issue. I'm obliged to inform you as a representative from this area. In this regard, I ask you to answer us with my colleague Danchev: are you aware of the problem put forward by the citizens and companies from the Economic Zone?Sofia-Bozhurishte-Bozhurishte and why have recently undertaken an extension of the area before solving the problem of the lack of a leading and extracting infrastructure in the area? At what time could the necessary route be built, and what measures are you planning to ease the situation in the area until it is built? The colleague will also have the opportunity to take an attitude. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u125	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chenchev, dear Mr. Danchev, thank you very much for the question, because this issue concerns not only the residents, but also those companies that are in the Industrial Zone. Just here to point out the protest, if it was a protest or if they just wanted to express opinions, I do not know, perhaps the protest is a slightly stronger word - were representatives of the National Industrial Zones company, who also supported it. The Economic Zone "Sofia-Bozhurishte" is a priority project of the National Company Industrial Zones "EAD" and the largest new economic zone in Bulgaria as a whole. The area extends over an area of 2665 acres and attracts significant investor interest in the first place, its classroom location only 15 km from the center of Sofia and 23 km from Sofia airport. To date, 19 different investors have been attracted to the area and implement their projects, with the total investment of nearly 350 million. BGN, and the occupied area is about 30%. The National Industrial Zones Company is working actively and closely with all investors in the municipality of Bozhurishte and is in constant contact with their requirements and needs. In connection with the expansion of the Zone and the municipality of Bozhurishte as a whole, the traffic to and from the town of Bozhurishte, which joins the central road network in Bulgaria, is extremely fragile and vulnerable and is extremely busy. We can confirm that. That is why the National Company has taken a number of actions for more than one year, for which I will say in a few moments specifically, within its competence to provide new road connections to the Economic Zone. I'll specifically tell you what we did. By letter dated 21 June 2017 to the Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality and to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the National Company Industrial Zones (NGO) proposed to build additional road connections from the urban and Republican road network to the Economic Zone of Bozhurishte, offering three options for the implementation of these proposals. By letter dated 26 July 2018, a proposal was made to the Mayor of Sofia Municipality for a partial amendment of the General Development Plan of Sofia and Sofia Municipality regarding the initiation of a proposal for the construction of a new road link for the Tsaritsa Ioana Boulevard, which is extremely important and is the key to the Economic Zone of Bozhurishte. A proposal was made by letter dated 18 August 2017 to the Mayor of Sofia Municipality and to the director of Sofia Municipality Metropolitan. This is also an extremely interesting request to the Bulgarian Investment Agency under the incentive measure "Financial support for building elements of the technical infrastructure necessary for the implementation of one or more investment projects" under art. 22b of the Law. The aim is to provide financial support for the next budgetary year for the construction of a road link which will provide the transport security of the Economic Zone. I assure you that we are working because we have said this before, there is extremely much interest. Currently, there are 21 companies that want to enter the Industrial Zone, and most of them are producers. At the moment, we are delaying all this, because before we build the infrastructure, it will become unbearable there. There is great interest and we can cover 100% of the Zone right now, but for us it is more important, first of all, to build the infrastructure that we have always talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Danchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Let me, first of all, thank you in turn, Mr. Minister, for always receiving detailed answers from you and always getting commitments that things can happen in another way. We really have to admit that the protest of the citizens that we attended with colleague Chenchev and other representatives I personally did not see the representatives of the National Company Industrial Zones. I saw there other than citizens and many investors from the companies working in the Industrial Zone. And I really think the protest is completely fair. Currently, the entrance to the largest Industrial Zone in Sofia passes through the Toleva neighborhood, which is part of the region of Vrbnitsa, and Bozhurishte. This causes huge chaos, as dozens of trucks a day really pass through on even Saturdays and Sundays. At least on weekends, people insist on banning passage until the road problem is resolved. By the end of this year, I pay attention, the problem will become even heavier, as - on our information, which I am sure is known to you too - will work the largest logistics centre in Europe of a known foreign company, namely JYSK, who have declared that it will pass this way on an incoming and one outgoing truck every four minutes during the day. Then the lack of leading infrastructure in the area will cause a huge riot both by investors and by citizens. Recently, at the request of colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group, we had a hearing on the topic of business climate in the country and on the measures taken by the current government to improve it. You also assured us that the government is making exceptional efforts to attract new foreign investors, especially through the development of industrial zones in Bulgaria. Now, however, investors who are already attracted to the largest Industrial Zone (Sofia-Bozhurishte) complain that they do not have normal conditions for developing their activities, including problems with the lack of adequate power supply and a leading road infrastructure. Indeed, it is good that measures have been taken to design a new path. I understand that we are really talking about the project stage and, therefore, knowing the procedures in Sofia Municipality, I ask myself: how long will it take for the approval process of the General Development Plan to include forecasts for the Industrial Zone road? Probably at least a year. We have to be honest with the citizens. If investors have no choice but to wait, then for the citizens of the Toleva district pendulum and Bozhurishte region, this at least one year before the start of construction, I mean, will cut their lives and health for decades and should therefore be considered really some restriction of traffic, I do not know, perhaps at certain times or daily intervals? The commitment to the certification of the project for the second part of the Industrial Zone is sound, but I ask myself: why, after the development of industrial zones has been claimed as a priority of the government, for almost one year now, as far as I know from the request made by the National Company Industrial Zones................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And here I would like to point out that, according to the information that is listed on the website of the National Company Industrial Zones, the last stage III of the development of the Zone, Sofia-Bojurishte, was supposed to be completed by the end of 2016. At least that is how it is noted on the site, including final negotiations with investors for a multilingual terminal, the construction of administrative centres and other ancillary infrastructures. It is interesting here to attract both future and current investors whether this information, which is indicated on the site, continues to be up-to-date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u128	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Secretary, come in. Consciously, I've left more time for the line. There were very specific questions for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u129	Absolutely. Once again, thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I'm going to start from this: yes, it's the Ministry of Economy's own company, but that doesn't mean we don't have to follow the rules. The certificate will be ready in a few days. We're counting on it. He's ready, actually. It's about to be signed by me. Count that it will probably be ready next week, but once again: that it is its own company, it should also meet all the requirements. That slowed us down a little. A ban on passing on Saturday and Sunday and limiting some hours is still within the competence of Sofia Municipality and the Ministry of Interior probably. Such an offer can be made. The power supply, I assure you, is currently being built after long sagas. Unfortunately, in the Industrial Zone, I found sold terrains that are being built without the infrastructure being built, so I mentioned several times that it was a mistake. We must build the infrastructure first. So now I say that for many of the projects that are being offered, there is an outstanding interest in the Industrial Zone, and at extremely good prices, because it is becoming extremely attractive. We stop them, we express them because we simply cannot allow an accumulation to occur there, which is still present. On the subject for a term: unfortunately I cannot commit myself to a term, as this depends on Sofia Municipality, Ministry of Regional Development, of course, from the Ministry of Economy, the Industrial Zone. What I did and I neglected to mention in the first exhibition is that last week at the end, there was a meeting between the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Economy, the API, the National Company Industrial Zones and Sofia Municipality, as well as all municipalities, because it is not only Bojurishte there, where everyone is committed to this process. I assure you that I will personally deal with things happening faster - for me it is the construction of infrastructure, the subway, the commodical collector. Look, we need to take into account something very important in the Intermodal Collector: if we are going to have enterprises that will not use it for example, we do not need to invest in it. That is to say, this analysis must also be done, but for now, the most important thing is to continue. My dream is there to have a subway, which will be extremely useful for the residents, and not only for everyone who works there. Thank you, one more time, and I want to wish you a good vacation, a vacation. But I'm sure you'll be working on her time, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your input, thank you for your good wishes. I hope they come true. That was the last question. We're done with the living room, and we're done with the weekly program. The next regular plenary session shall be on 4 September 2018 at 1300. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
