ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: MAINTENANCE OF THE PROJECT OF A DECISION TO BRING THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISCO BUILDING IN THE CORRUPTION PROVERSION POLICY Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 17 January 2018. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to broadcast the vote on this item on the agenda on the National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A correct proposal because on Tuesday we voted to broadcast only the debates. Please vote. Vote 229 MPs: for 228, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group. Come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers of the Cabinet! Madam President, yesterday on behalf of Parliament, you made a statement on the political assessment given by the Head of State on the nature of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Republic. On this occasion, you have said that the low rating of parliament is due to the President's systematic attacks and the negative assessments he gives to our institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u5	And not only that. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u6	We object to your behaviour and to the attempt to give an answer on behalf of the entire Parliament, as in your speech you have stated that different parliamentary groups are present in Parliament, with different programmes and when the MPs vote, vote on behalf of their groups. That is, you are a representative of GERB in this case, although the President of the National Assembly, and you cannot express such a collective assessment. Question two. Parliament's low rating is due to the actions of the national representation itself, as well as the Presidency of Parliament. First of all, the absence of debates on key bills that pass through the National Assembly, on which the party leading the parliamentary majority does not even take the floor. That can't be parliamentary. The second question, the violation of the Rules of the National Assembly, as was the case with the adoption of the Republican budget, including by the management of the National Assembly itself, only to push the will of the parliamentary majority. And the third question, when discussing the fate of the government, the vote and the opposition's accusations on the ground of serious arguments put forward in connection with the fight against corruption, the prime minister is absent in the debates and is absent in the vote. This undermines Parliament's rating, this creates the feeling in the Bulgarian voters that parliament is not the institution where the political issues of the state are addressed. I take this opportunity to invite the Prime Minister to attend the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] His absence humiliates parliament, disrupts the rating and changes the nature of the republic. The Head of State's assessment is correct. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe it was an obligation of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament to oppose the President's attempts to embarrass and undermine the prestige of the Bulgarian Parliament. Because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and we believe that such an approach to the systematic humiliation of Parliament and of the parliamentary institution does not honor the person who should be a united nation. Because in yesterday's speeches we heard nothing about its usefulness for the last year, but we heard what it actually contributed to the division of the nation and to opposition to the institutions. As for the desire of certain MPs from BSP that the Prime Minister should be in today's voting day, I can tell you that Prime Minister Borisov is fulfilling his commitments from the International Programme [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] on the presidency this morning, even now flying to the forum in Davos. So from this point of view, I ask you: let us not speculate and let us really give what is due to the Prime Minister, his leadership, which he currently has in the European Union, the respect and respect that the European leaders have towards Bulgaria, thanks to the joint efforts of all those politicians who think about Bulgaria's good performance in these six months. [[Applause from GERB.]] You are the ones to whom the topic is far away from you. You are the ones who are talking about a referendum and you are the ones who during these years, when we have had the opportunity to make decisions based on a referendum held supported by about 3 million Bulgarian citizens, you are against, and today you are talking about the referendum, how should the form of consultation be for society. At 10.00 we will make a tribune where we will express our opinion on all that is being conducted by the BSP in the last few days, so that those who wanted and supported and wished to be accepted the Istanbul Convention can actually speak absolutely different these, but this will be presented, of course, with the facts that have been proven to your way of communicating with KTB and people who have visited it. And you're talking about corruption?! [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, let us be objective in the facts, because what my colleague Delyan Dobrev said, I think you should have just shut up and say one big excuse! [[Applause from GERB.]] As far as the debate is concerned and when the vote is to be taken, please read the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We have deadlines in which we must comply after the vote of distrust has been tabled. 7 days is the deadline for the necessary debate to take place, and 24 hours after the debate is completed, the vote will be made. If you had asked us what the Prime Minister's commitments were, we would have explained to you and would have been much clearer and more convincing in this way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. We're moving on to a vote on Project! DECISION to vote on mistrust of Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Votes mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the anti-corruption policy. Importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 234 MPs: for 103, against 131, no abstentions. [[Applause from GERB.]] The proposal is not accepted as it requires a quorum of 121 MPs. The vote failed. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! This vote started as pointless, but ended as cynical, so we voted against. During the debates, we would most likely vote abstentionally, but yesterday a colleague from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria took the liberty of attacking and insulting the only parliamentary party and parliamentary group, which in no way Hopeless in what corruption are you accustomed to living in? Yeah, but worse than that, he said the only way to get this no-confidence vote is to rely on the Patriots' parliamentary group. And I ask: what parliamentary group and what kind of people do you want to pass the vote on those who are constantly talking to in public, that you hold the button for them, and at any moment you can press it and take down the government? To those who, in the front parliaments, you call them nationalists, fascists and so on, and use them as a golden finger for your rule? Those who yesterday or the other day took the liberty of calling your colleagues insulting and comparing them to Anita Maiser? Is that the level you're counting on? Do you think that in this way a true vote of no confidence can pass? Let's turn to true values, to morals, to corruption, and when your leader came out at the beginning and said: That was moral, not waiting for the other parliamentary groups to take out your dirty laundry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki! [[Applause from the will.]] Any other colleagues for a negative vote? I can't see. [[Next closed session.]] (After the closed session.) We continue with the next item on the agenda in open session: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Dear Mr. Letifov, please submit the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, I will first make a procedure for admission to the Chamber: on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Veliko Zanchev to be admitted to Deputy Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u13	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act No 702-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 17 January 2018, a draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act was discussed, No 702-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Veselin Vassilev Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The draft was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, who stated that by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, changes are proposed to the provisions relating to the reasoned opinion received and additional letter of formal notice No C(2016) 2382 under infringement procedure No 2013/2076, as regards the European Commission's description of the incorrect transposition and application of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on railway safety in the Community and amending Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification. The separate texts of the draft provide for the obligations to investigate accidents and incidents carried out so far by the Railway Administration Executive Agency and the National Safety Authority to be entrusted to the Manager of the Railway Infrastructure and Railway Undertakings in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2004/49/EC on the main elements of the safety management systems of the infrastructure manager of railway undertakings. Mr. Zanchev stated that the draft requires that the main elements of the safety management systems of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers include procedures to ensure that accidents, incidents, incidents, incidents close to incidents and other dangerous events are reported, investigated, analysed and taken the necessary preventive measures. There is also a legal basis for imposing sanctions in the event of failure to comply with the obligations of railway undertakings and infrastructure manager to investigate accidents, incidents and situations close to accidents. Another group of changes are related to the implementation of the disinfection activities of the mobile railway units entering the country, offering a clarification of the definition of a service facility and a change in the Veterinary Activity Act where this activity is regulated. The disinfection of vehicles is currently regulated in the Veterinary Activity Act, where the general rules of the activities for disinfection of vehicles entering the country are laid down. The activities of disinfection of mobile railway formations in turn require specific facilities located on the railway road. At present, such facilities are operated and operated by the railway undertaking manager. This also requires that the Animal Treatment Act be supplemented by proposing, at the legal level, that entities which are entitled to carry out the disinfection of mobile railway units be regulated. Another group of amendments to the Rail Transport Act are related to the implementation of projects for construction and/or extension of public transport infrastructure. The method of providing property is precise for the management of the National Railway Infrastructure Company. The importers claimed that an equivalent regulation exists in the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is written that the State provides to the State undertaking Port Infrastructure. During the debates on the Bill, the People's Representative Lalo Kirilov asked the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about the need to submit the bill, as well as the independence of the unit for investigating accidents in the field of rail transport. Discussion also caused the proposed addition in para. 4 of art. 9 of the Law. It was explained by the importers that the proposed changes to this part of the Law comply with art. 106 of the Constitution as regards the organisation of state property management by the Council of Ministers. As well as that in the case of National Railway Infrastructure, the most frequently provided property is property necessary for the construction of railway infrastructure. Public government property, for the implementation of important infrastructure projects, including funded by EU funds. It was also shared that the proposed arrangements would contribute to better coordination and consistency between the departments in the provision of state property to public traders. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Alexander Paunov. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Railway Act No 702-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we will not support the draft. We will vote abstention for two main reasons. The first is that, as has been read in the Report, in the Commission, we have requested the letter of recommendation from Commissioner Bullz. It has been promised to the Commission that it will be sent and the members of the Commission will get acquainted with the letter and the recommendations, and we will also receive the reply of the letter from the Ministry, which has been sent to the Commission. This was not fulfilled as a promise. The second thing we will not support this bill for is because it examines exactly the recommendations on this letter, but only a small part is reflected. In the letter there are recommendations for the relocation of the railway accident investigation unit to be taken out of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications because there is incompatibility. The Minister of Transport is the principal of both companies: I think there has been a debate for a long time where the unit should be placed and it is time to open a real debate and once and for all decide whether this unit will remain in the Ministry or be assigned to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will say that we will support the Rail Transport Act at first reading. He is right when he said that we did not see the letter, which actually motivated an opinion from the European Commission. Based on the opinion they've received, there's been a lot of work done and a lot of work done. And there are also the texts that are in this law. It is true that there is something to be complemented and I hope that, at a second reading, with joint efforts by the Commission, we will clear the doubts we have. I think the lyrics are good. Given that we are also in a penal procedure, an attempt has been made to transpose the directives as they indicate, and I believe that the Law must be adopted. If there are shortcomings, they should be removed between the two readings. We will support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Any lines to Mr. Letifov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. The Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber, we have a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017 They voted 114 MPs: 95, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR FILM INDESTRY. Importer: Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017 Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u21	Please vote for the Deputy Minister's admission procedure. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u22	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending the Film Industry Act No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 18 January 2018, a Draft Law amending the Law on the Film Industry was reviewed, No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Amelia Gesheva Deputy Minister; Tanya Tsvetanova Director of the Department of Legal Service and Public Procurement.Miglena Katsarova On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva. The Law on the Film Industry regulates the relations related to production, distribution, promotion and showed the films in the country and the state support of the Bulgarian film industry, creating conditions for its development. The aim of the proposed amendments is to implement commitments made by Bulgaria related to bringing the Bulgarian legislation into line with the Communication of the European Commission on State aid for films and other audiovisual works. The change also relates to the fact that the aid scheme for the Bulgarian film industry authorised by Decision of the European Commission of 2 August 2012 applies until 31 December 2017 and after its expiry no new aid should be granted even within the framework of an approved budget. The requirement for Bulgarian citizenship of the authors in relation to the production of an original version of Bulgarian film is removed, but the condition to be in Bulgarian language is maintained. From the definitions of the average budget of a feature film, the average budget of a documentary and the average budget of an animated film is dropped the requirements for the length and type of the film band. This is in line with the processes of digitalization in the film industry, as well as the uniform conditions for financial support for the various categories of films produced and distributed in Bulgaria. It is envisaged that expenditure from the budget of a film in Bulgaria will be not less than 75% and not more than 160% calculated as a percentage of the allocated public support funds. The definition of a low-cost budget film in the Law is replaced by a new legal definition of a difficult film. In its policy, the European Union prefers this kind of work in defining parameters and limits for financial support for films. The bill proposes reducing the administrative burden by dropping the requirement for film producers, film distributors and film-makers in Bulgaria to provide an up-to-date certificate of entry in the Commercial Register, required for the public register of the Executive Agency. A partial preliminary impact assessment has been carried out which gives information on the expected impact and the results of the adoption of the Bill. Ms. Jana Karaivanova noted that the amendments are necessary to close the monitoring carried out by the European Commission and to receive financial assistance for the production of Bulgarian films. People's representative Chavdar Velinov asked questions about which Mr. Vecdi Rashidov, Mr. Lachezar Ivanov and the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre. Following the vote, the MPs from the Culture and Media Committee with 11 votes for the Film Industry Act, No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Film Industry Act, No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds who will present us? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u24	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending the Film Industry Act No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017. At its regular meeting on 17 January 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending the Film Industry Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov "Deputy Minister of Culture." The meeting was also attended by Mrs. Miglena Katsarova, Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Service and Public Procurement and Mrs. Vesela Shtereva, Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Ms. Jana Karaivanova, Director of the National Film Centre. First, the proposed amendments to the Film Industry Act aim to introduce existing State aid schemes in the field of film production in accordance with the Commission Communication on State aid to films and other audiovisual works. The draft Law is proposed following monitoring of the aid scheme SA.30569(2016/MX) Secondly, according to the reasons of the importer, the principle of general legality is not fully respected insofar as there is a requirement for Bulgarian citizenship of the authors in relation to the production of an original version of Bulgarian film, which constitutes a violation of the principle of non-discrimination. The draft Law notes that until that requirement is introduced in the Law, the monitoring carried out will not be completed. For this reason, amendments to the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Film Industry are envisaged by amendment to § 1, item 1. 2 (b) where the requirement for Bulgarian citizenship should be deleted. Thirdly, in addition, the draft Law proposes changes relating to the clarification of obligations for the territoriality of expenditure. The changes provide an obligation for the beneficiaries of State aid to spend part of the budget of film production on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Fourth, changes in Bulgarian legislation are also envisaged to bring it into line with the basic requirements of European legislation and, in particular, the scheme of State aid for film production to be primarily oriented towards the production of so-called difficult films. To this end, the Draft Law introduces a legal definition of a hard film, i.e. a film whose only version is in Bulgarian and has a budget of no more than the average budget for the respective type of film for the transitional year. Fifthly, according to the decision of the European Commission, the aid scheme SA.30569 (2016/MX) was approved until 31 December 2017. After the expiry of the Scheme SA.30569 (2016/MX) new aid, even under an approved budget, should not be granted. In this regard, it is necessary to provide for an explicit text regulating the suspension of the aid scheme SA.30569 (2016/MX) after 31 December 2017. To this end, with a transitional provision of the bill, it is explicitly regulated that new individual aid under the scheme is not granted after 31 December 2017. Sixth, the Bill also provides for a change of legal definitions for the average budget of a feature film, an average budget of a documentary and an average budget of animated film. The changes are necessary with a view to digitising the processes of production and distribution of films, as well as to establishing uniform conditions for financial support for the different categories of films that are produced and distributed in Bulgaria. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov asked about the reason the participants in the public discussion of the bill to have disagreements with its importers. Mrs. Katsarova explained that the introduction of the requirements contained in the Commission Communication was the result of several years of correspondence between the Directorate-General of the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and the National Film Centre, which had contradictions in competition concerning the production of films. One of them is that only a Bulgarian citizen can be an author, writer or director of a Bulgarian film. According to representatives of the European Commission, this is a form of discrimination and have repeatedly stated in correspondence that such a type of discriminatory requirements in Bulgarian legislation should not exist. The European Commission's recommendations are the result of monitoring the aid scheme. For this reason Mrs. Katsarova explained that these requirements were also discussed at the National Film Council and a working group was established which examined the correspondence in question, as well as the monitoring carried out and it was decided to introduce changes to national legislation. Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva was interested in the extent to which a new aid scheme was drawn up, and Mr. Vigenin asked what the amendments to the Law were required because the communications from the European Commission had no binding character. Ms. Jana Karaivanova, Director of the National Film Centre, explained that the changes are required in connection with the closure of the monitoring carried out because no new assistance can be received without its closure, but about the question asked by Mrs. Vasileva, Ms. Jana Karaivanova explained that there are two options for the release of State aid. The first option for granting State aid is through the General Block Exemption Regulation. Ms. Karaivanova said that the opinion of the National Council for Cinema is that this option has negatives regarding the film industry and the Council prefers to be released again under a scheme. A huge part of the scheme release documentation is available at the National Film Centre. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Film Industry, No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will be very brief, as the reports have clarified the task of amending the Law on the Film Industry. This bill aims to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the alignment of existing State aid schemes in the field of film production in accordance with Communication No 332 of 2013 of the European Commission on State aid for films and audiovisual works. This text is important for the European Economic Area for the four freedoms. The movement of goods, the movement of services, capital and people based on competition and aid. The Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria was informed on 5 October 2016 that appropriate measures should be taken to comply with the requirements of the Communication and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and mainly with art. 107 and 108 of this contract. Unfortunately, the time to bring was from 2013 to 2015, then it skipped to 2016. For apparent or unseen reasons this has not been done. Now all of a sudden, we have to speedily align with the requirements of our regulatory base. However, this leads to something that is exceptional, perhaps for filmmakers and producers, dramatically, because the Film Industry Act as it is, through the 2012 notification, receives individual aid, and now, as you have heard, a block exemption is being offered, which is in any event not for the benefit of filmmakers, producers and the companies they work with. This is why, within the limited period of the current scheme, the current scheme will be implemented until 31 December 2017, in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending the Law on Film Industry, there is a problem with the completion of the individual scheme. Corrections are required to be made in order to continue possibly under the individual scheme and not under the block exemption, and this text needs to be changed. That is why we from BSP for Bulgaria will abstain from the first vote in the hope that between first and second reading the necessary progress will be made by taking the opinion of the representative organizations of the film guild. The future of cinema actually depends on solving this problem. We do not underestimate the fact that filmmaking is a labor-intensive, risky process and without State aid is doomed to failure, perhaps. That is why I very much hope that between first and second reading there will be the necessary changes in favour of filmmakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. Are there any lines to Mr. Velinov's statement? [[National Representative Evgeni Budinov wants the floor.]] For a line or a statement? For a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I appeal to you to vote for these amendments to the Law, because this is very important for the people who work in the cinema people with whom I communicate constantly so that this year they can continue to work. Colleagues from BSP, I understand your reservations, but I don't understand what's better at the moment. That is why I also appeal to you: let us vote Indeed, if you can do something good between first and second readings, I agree and will support you. I myself have ideas for amendments to the Law on Cinema, but I think that this should be discussed carefully and be for the good of the people who are filmmakers and work in this area. Please, it is good to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-25.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Are there any lines to Mr. Budinov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on the Film Industry, No 702-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2017. They voted 118 MPs: 94, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 26 January 2018, Friday: First will answer the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Sevil Ali and Rumen Georgiev; Hristo Prodanov, Dimitar Danchev and Nikolay Tsonkov. Second will answer the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. Third responds the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Krum Zarkov and Pencho Milkov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. The fourth answer is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; Svetla Bachvarova, two questions. Fifth answers the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. Six answers the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to six questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Svetla Bachvarova, Dragomir Stoynev, Donka Simeonova, Georgi Gokov and Spas Panchev; Svetla Bachvarova, two questions, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Sabanov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MP Petar Hristov Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Gokov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting there is no possibility for the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to take part because of his commitment to a scheduled meeting, included in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. Colleagues, tomorrow's regular plenary session at 9:00. I'm adjourned for today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
