ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u1	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] We can start working. Dear Members of Parliament, I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 10 October: 1. The mandate of the Member of the National Assembly is resigned by the National Representative Nikolay Nankov on 9 October 2018. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 19 September 2018. 3. Second vote on the bill amending the Commercial Law. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 12 September 2018. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. The people's representative Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs are importing. He was accepted in the first vote on 27 July 2018. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. 6. A bill amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project concluded by Exchange of Letters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bills of Amendment and Supplement to the Religion Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi. The second bill is from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. There is a proposal to be the first item for Thursday, 11 October 2018. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importer is the Council of Ministers point two for Thursday, 11 October 2018. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It was adopted on the first vote on 12 September 2018. We propose that this be item three for Thursday, 11 October 2018. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It was adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2018. We propose that this be point one for Friday, 12 October 2018. 13. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed work programme. They voted 165 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 33. The offer is accepted. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria, for inclusion on the agenda of the Program under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. It is: on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Kutev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are introducing this bill now and perhaps even more because of yesterday's announcements claiming that there is an agreement on the 19th to enter the Law on People with Disabilities. To be honest, I do not see the meaning of both the Law on Personal Aid and the Law on Persons with Disabilities to go together. The Law on Personal Aid is extremely important, but in the way the Law on Persons with Disabilities is written, one does not concern the other. They're parallel laws. As I understand it, the same is the Social Services Act, which we need to see from where the private aid part is separated, because such a bill already exists. Since I have already said several times that I think the majority is trying to deceive people with disabilities and finally not to adopt the Personal Aid Act, so I insist that this law be dealt with now. If you insist on looking into a package of laws, this concerns first and second readings. That is, between first and second reading you can move them together as much as you want, but at the moment there is no basis for this law, which has been introduced more than two months ago, which is absolutely key, which practically affects all people with disabilities, which is actually the most important thing they want, because it expresses the most important part of caring for people with disabilities, namely personal help, the possibility and the way it is regulated, absolutely nothing prevents this law from being adopted at first reading now, with which we all show our attitude to what people on the street want. From then on, first and second reading, set them as you wish after October 19th or at all when possible. I therefore call on you: it is an extremely important law. This is something we have been talking about for months, we have imported it more than two months ago, this is something that is key for people with disabilities, and I firmly say that the refusal of this law will now show the attitude of the National Assembly and the majority to this problem. I call on all of us to support its entry into the agenda and, respectively, the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. President, perhaps you should have discussed this proposal in advance with colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group because there has been a new moment since yesterday regarding the negotiations on the adoption of legislation for people with disabilities. I believe that the BSP colleagues' proposal does not correspond with the agreement signed yesterday with the government, with representatives of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities, with the national representative organisations of people with disabilities and with the Ombudsman Maya Manolova. Specific commitments were adopted by the government with specific deadlines [[noise and lines]] , namely: these bills to be viewed in a package. This is not only the request of the parliamentary group of GERB, it is also the request of the protesting mothers. In point two of the agreement signed yesterday, it is clearly and categorically stated: "The Call for Persons with Disabilities and the Personal Assistance Act to be discussed and adopted in a package by the National Assembly. " Clearly, it doesn't make any sense to your proposal. You're looking for another PR action. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u5	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u7	Mr President, when the agenda is adopted, there are several ways to include the points and the corresponding paragraphs. We have taken advantage of the right which you have read to bring a new item on the agenda, but in this part of the Rules it is nowhere written that there is a possibility of a reverse proposal that there is a possibility of starting debates. You should have very simply and elementaryly after we made the proposal and justified it, proceed to its vote. I couldn't understand what the procedure was, why did you allow insinuations to be made here, and why did you even give someone the opportunity to get up and talk on an agenda item when he wasn't the importer? I want you to explain to me, to open the Rules right now and to tell me by what point, in which order, by which rule of these Rules did you give the floor to Mrs. Angelova? Otherwise, I would ask you to switch with someone else who can comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go. I'll answer everyone. Okay, I just wanted to answer Mr. Ermenkov. Look, I can't know every MP who wants the floor of procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u9	You don't act like a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u10	Mr. Ermenkov, please, let's act like MPs. I'm trying to explain to you very calmly why I gave the floor to procedure. Yes, you're right, I have no reason, and if she had asked for the word Mrs. Angelova with the opposite opinion, she wouldn't have gotten it. But I had to give her the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u11	Dear Mr. President, in fact, the problem in this order of procedure is that one leads to the other and therefore, if we follow the procedure, we will not have to conduct these dialogues. The problem is that when Mrs. Angelova takes the procedure unwarranted, then, in order to respond, she has to take it another unwarranted and so this starts to spin. I just want to remind you, colleagues, the promises, the so-called ones, especially in this subject we have heard them many times. Many times! By the way, yesterday I heard a promise from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy that this law will be passed. Today it will show whether it is a promise or a lie. He takes the promises, you have to keep them. I apologize for the expression, and he goes to make promises, and then you go in the opposite direction. I guarantee you that today you will not only not accept this bill, you will not accept it at all, which will deceive everyone. You're lying to people with disabilities, and some of you know exactly why they're doing it. Most of you may not know, but there are some, Mrs. Angelova, who know what you're doing, and you're lying outrageously.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I put to the vote the proposal to include a point in the forthcoming weekly programme of the National Assembly: First vote on the Personal Assistance Bill submitted by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 167 MPs: for 76, against 33, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Come on in, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u13	Colleagues, I'm paying attention to the fact that the bill is extremely...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u14	This isn't a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u15	Why wouldn't it be a re-voting? [[Replication by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov. Noise.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is extremely important...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u16	Mr. Kutev, I'm going to ask you to request a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u17	Why would I want to? I have two minutes to re-vote according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u18	No, it's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u19	Yeah, that's right. I want a re-vote because, uh, colleagues, the way you voted, tonight, you're gonna see him on the street and not just tonight. You are currently entering a game from which you will not be able to come out as you are. I strongly warn you that the way you are going does not correspond with civil dialogue, and this is the most direct way to end your term ahead of time. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. We're moving on to the re-voting procedure. They voted 164 MPs: for 76, against 39, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Communications and bills and draft decisions from 3 October 2018 to 9 October 2017: Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers: MPs Mihail Ivaylov Hristov and Krum Zarkov. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement, concluded by Exchange of Notes on 20 September 2018, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Economic, Technical and Relevant Other Assistance, signed on 27 July 1998. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, Report on the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, Annual Report and Report on the activity of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system for 2017 and Annual Report on the state debt situation for 2017. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Committee for Foreign Policy, the Committee for European Affairs and the Control of European Funds. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. Importer: Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Daniel Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Budget and Finance Committee and the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee. A bill amending the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer: People's Representative Alexander Siddy and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Bill amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, by its order, has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew from air force personnel to air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence by route from Sofia airport to Belgrade airport, the Republic of Serbia on 10 October 2018 and from Belgrade airport, the Republic of Serbia to Sofia airport on 11 October 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 9 October 2018. No 803-09-55 and granted to the Defence Committee. The Audit Report for the Audit of the Review for the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 was submitted to the National Assembly with an opinion of the Court of Auditors on the report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 October 2018; indexes of turnover in the section of the Department of Retail Trade, except for the trade in cars and motorcycles and in August 2018; indexes of industrial production in August 2018; indexes of construction production in August 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. There is an application from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov Nankov: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the restoration of my authority as a Member of the National Assembly under the conditions of art. 140, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please suspend my authority as a Member of the National Assembly for personal reasons. In this regard, I present to you: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Nikolay Nankov Nankov as a MP from the Eleventh Election Region. Dear colleagues, I'm subjecting...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u21	Wait, there's no motive?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u22	Motives are personal. [[(Replications, noise from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.)]] You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB! Of course we can't just pass this resignation, all the more so we want to know what the reasons are. If they are personal reasons, it would be nice for Mr. Nankov to be here because he has to answer the following questions: does he answer the truth that the resigned Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nankov, currently MP, will be returned to the government as Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works? We want an answer from him. If today an order is signed for his appointment as Deputy Minister, how does this act respond to the political and moral responsibility taken with his resignation? Politically, Minister Nankov resigned because of the death of 20 Bulgarian citizens who died in a severe accident and because of the poor road infrastructure. [[Noise, lines. Knocking on the bank by the MP of GERB.]] Quiet, please! [[Laughter, GERB lines.]] Will you step in, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u24	You're right! Colleagues, listen calmly to Mr. Stoinev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u25	Politically loyal MP Nankov resigns to return to the same place, but as deputy minister with a portfolio of billions for infrastructure construction. Are these the facts? We want an answer. If yes, this means that there is brutal and shameless hypocrisy behind them, there is a mockery of morality behind them, political and human, but behind them is an iron machine for a lot of money and power distributed in the form of infrastructure projects. I can continue with the questions. Mr. Nankov, are you moral after all, or are you loyal?! Standing of the banks in the right part of the Chamber MPs from GERB who chose you? The people or GERB? How are you going to look the people in the eye tomorrow after the maneuver with the resignation? Will either of you ask where Nankov is going? Do you know what the word "psevdo" means? This is the first component of complex words with meaning: fake, false, false. If Nankov becomes Deputy Minister, then you are a pseudo-politicalist. You've turned this country into a pseudostate. Nankov will return to the Ministry after his pseudo-leaving, but will the dead return?! Death is not theirs and others'. Peace be upon their souls! Losing their families is not a pseudo. Neither corruption is pseudo, nor poverty, nor the failed health system. They're real, colleagues from GERB! At the moment, however, there is a big public vote against you because of pseudo-moralism, pseudo-politics, pseudo-reforms and the theft of the trust of the Bulgarians. And this one is doomed to be successful. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, please explain to the colleagues of GERB that when someone speaks from the stand, it is democratic to listen. If they have something to say to him, there is a formula of lines and all sorts of other ways in which this thing can be done, or as a statement from the stands. The calls from a place just show bad taste. And bad manners, among other things! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u28	Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u29	This is part of what I am doing because it will also be linked to Mr. Nankov's resignation as a MP. I just want to tell Mr. Stoinev who just spoke. Mr. Stoynev, this silence is a sign of consent, so... I see that colleagues from GERB agree with everything you said. I guess they're feeling a little uncomfortable right now where they're sitting with what's happening. Because when a MP resigns as such after submitting it as a minister, it can only be admired if it is a sign of a truly conscious political responsibility that has led a young politician to remain a politician, taking this responsibility to the end, giving up a ministerial post, giving up MPs and serving the interests of the people. However, his resurrection at the Ministry of Regional Development will hardly lead to the resurrection of those for whom he resigned, unfortunately. When he got up and said: I take the political responsibility for what happened in Svoge, we hoped that it was really a political responsibility that was realized, not an act of deception of society, where a young man says I will resign today, but tomorrow I will return to a white horse in the same ministry. I hope that's not true! Again, we don't know what the motives are. However, I appeal to you nothing that he is not here, I hope that he will hear........................................... that he will hear........................................................................................................................................................................................................ I ask you once again, Members, that when we act on behalf of the National Assembly, and when we say that we have a political responsibility, we bear the political responsibility. [[noise and lines from the National Representative Manoil Manev]] and giving up the posts, not trying to smear one of our actions with others, and just because there are some means that need to be used, we are trying to go against ourselves! Mr. Nankov, I hope that you will find yourself truly at the height of the situation required by a politician and prove that everything we are talking about you today could be classified as slander if you do not become Deputy Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't think we were supposed to have this debate today, but BSP colleagues seem to be looking for a way to pour their energy in some other direction, not to look at their yard and the problems they have in them... I can say that on behalf of the Parliamentary Group we stand firmly behind the professional Nikolay Nankov! We stand firmly behind one person, behind whom every professional community stands.. both from the construction industry and from the representatives of the National Association of Municipalities. When a minister has managed to make policies to reach all Bulgarian citizens in the educational infrastructure, in the Road Agency, in the road infrastructure to speak in this way, I think it is not serious! Let us remind ourselves of the projects "Struma"! Let us remember the money that is provided for Northwestern Bulgaria! Dear colleagues on the left, support Nikolai Nankov's expertise! Colleagues on the left, he will be with an open door to every single mayor, regardless of his political affiliation [[noise and lines]] and this evidence he showed with his attitude towards the mayor, which you always give as the most successful in your ranks. This is the mayor of Troyan. Colleagues, I can tell you that this will continue to do Nikolai Nankov from now on! Please, enough with the hatred, enough with the aggression, because you're not going anywhere as a political formation! And for the parliamentary majority and what Bulgarian citizens give as support to Nikolay Nankov, they will continue to give it to the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Line or procedure? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u33	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the idea to talk about hatred and aggression, to do it from this very place, is absurd! I have heard a lot of hate and aggression, but not the active, aggressive and harmful for Bulgaria, because for her you have been convicted, you have done it, from this very platform. Should we remind the doctors of Gorna Oryahovitsa and a few other cases? In my opinion, by the way, you owe the state money because the state paid it for you. Otherwise, on the occasion of policies for all citizens and how valuable the gentleman is, I know Mr. Nankov before he becomes a minister. My problem is not with Mr. Nankov. My problem is with the word responsibility. When, for something that has happened in the country, you, as a political force, decide to take responsibility and take responsibility by resigning to three ministers, then one makes him the boss of a bank, the second makes him the deputy minister, and the third, who is the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, makes him the Minister of Interior, that is responsibility in the most vulgar type, I would say the Mafia type, because it is not about responsibility, but about changing places and continuing the same line in the same way. And if with Mr. Nankov I can somehow understand this, with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, who is of the time only the last year that started with the six-year murder in Novi Iskar and ended with the murder a few days ago, this man is the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior all the time and you are making him a minister here, taking political responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u34	Mr. Kutev, please get on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u35	...that, Mr. Tsvetanov, only you can do it, considering your past! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Is there another line? Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the right to duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I will not answer in the way that you made this line, because you simply should not be honored with such attention by me by the parliamentary stand! [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll just say this. Mr. Kutev, for the period when I was Minister of the Interior, we received our country's greatest recognition. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What you are setting as an example right now, I can tell you that we can argue a lot about this subject. More importantly, however, it is what you give as an assessment of the current personnel shifts that were made in the Council of Ministers and carrying moral responsibility. Here we can say that the political party GERB and today's government, together with the United Patriarchs, proved that we can bear moral responsibility [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] and therefore the worthy Valyo Radev and the worthy Ivaylo Moskovski and the worthy Nikolay Nankov resigned! Since you are talking about responsibilities, I will give you an example with Byala when Bulgarian citizens also died and you did not bear any moral responsibility at all. The Bulgarian voters, however, gave the opportunity for you not to have a next term of management and for many years you will not have it! [[Applause from GERB.]] That's all I can say. You made a comment about the current Minister of Interior, who was the Secretary-General just a few days ago. Dear Mr. Kutev, the professional development of the current Minister Mladen Marinov takes place in the management mandate of Prime Minister Oresharski. You raise him to Deputy Chief of the SDVR, then you make him Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, and when the co-ordination procedure with the presidency begins, personally the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev, after having done the relevant checks and the coordination procedure he has carried out, sign a decree for his appointment as Secretary General. This is the senior professional figure of the Ministry of Interior! And now, at the moment, what is wrong with a Secretary-General who has gone through a similar co-ordination procedure with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev to be appointed Minister of Interior?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What I can only tell you and stop giving such qualifications for professionalism in the Ministry of Interior system: the murder that was committed in Ruse is a serious, brutal crime for which everyone can only be silent and let the professionals do their job. I don't know how you're looking at these professionals today who we've been blaming all these hours after Sunday when they found out there was a victim? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u38	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u39	I can say that if you had kept quiet and had not attacked the law enforcement system, I think that today we can pay respect and respect for the day-to-day work of the Bulgarian police officers, investigators and prosecutors. But when you only want to destroy and only create tension in society, this, in one form or another, does not honor you! However, this is your right, this is your profile of behavior that you have demonstrated since you have your current President of the BSP. Solve your problem in the newspaper Word and then step out of the stands! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Svilensky, a statement? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, in Mr. Tsvetanov's line, did you hear anything about Mr. Nankov's resignation? We were talking about the newspaper, we were talking about Ruse, we were talking about our reaction to the case in Ruse, and did you hear anything about the occasion on which we gathered the resignation of Minister Nankov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u42	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u43	The National Representative Nankov! Colleagues, we're really talking about responsibility here. Let each and every one of us put our hand on the heart and think when I take responsibility! Just a few months ago, here in this room, Mr. Dobrev also resigned, we also acknowledged his expertise and no one denies it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u44	And he stayed!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u45	Okay. And you didn't release him! Is Nankov a weaker expert than Mr. Dobrev? Mr. Tsvetanov, are you Prime Minister of Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines.]] Are you the one who appoints the Deputy Ministers? Because you hired him here five minutes ago?! You told her which mayors I'd take all of them, that is, you determine which mayors to take into my office?! [[Noise and lines by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Right? I think the Prime Minister is a different person named Mr. Borisov. You haven't taken this post yet, so don't shoot in Mr. Borisov's office! However, we are talking again about responsibility. When the accident happened, Mr. Nankov himself did not know how political responsibility was taken. By the way, his first reaction was: I am not sure that political responsibility is always assumed by resignation. What do you do with it, Mr. Nankov? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm getting off the subject and I'm really asking you there's a MP, Mr. Manev says, up in the corner, who is very afraid to come and speak from this tribune [[noise and lines]] He's standing in the back row, banging his hands, kicking his feet, screaming, playing [[noise, lines, laughter]] Please take him under observation and sanction him when he breaks the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u46	Mr. Svilensky, please get back on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u47	Because this man, apart from banging and screaming in the hall, he didn't make a single statement from this tribune! [[Noise and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u48	Mr. Svilensky, please again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u49	Colleagues, when resigning, we need to talk about morality and responsibility! He honors Mr. Moskovski that he stands in this room, takes responsibility, and, like any MP, he will perform his duties. I can't understand with what eyes Mr. Nankov, being Deputy Minister, will speak, will correspond with the entire industry, which you claim to be very well perceived?! This is your claim, this is the statement of your organizations, of your letter, which you sent to support it from all settlements. But it's only in your structures, Mr. Tsvetanov! This support is gone and you will understand it very soon only when, God forbid, is appointed Deputy Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Is there a line? [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] I'll give you the floor, Mr. Manev. For you, a personal explanation? The line is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u51	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and ladies of the House! Mr. Svilensky, when there's a line, I do the duplicate according to what the line says. Indeed, there were topics that went beyond the scope of today's debate on Nikolai Nankov's resignation, but this was provoked by the MP who gave me a line. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, if you listen more carefully to what I'm saying, I don't think you're going to get into the awkward situation of speaking untruths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Is there another line? [[The National Representative Manoil Manev is walking towards the stands.]] Wait, Mr. Manev, let's finish with the back. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u53	Mr. Manev, wait. Read the Rules: a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u54	You're getting dangerously close, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u55	Line up, then it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u56	You continue to abuse your right to an MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u57	What are we doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u58	Mr. Chairman, take the attitude.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u59	Mr. Manev, please understand. [[noise and lines]] Wait, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u60	The right of the People's Representative is written in the Constitution and it is to speak freely from the stands as he thinks. Mr. Tsvetanov, I answer to you. There wasn't a word in Mr. Kutev's line about the newspaper. Isn't that right? But you were talking about the newspaper. Did you hear somewhere in Mr. Kutev's line about BSP and the attitude towards Ruse?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u61	I'm doing an ad for the paper. [[Cheerful excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u62	This ad can be made at your meetings. And as for what I have said, tell me which untruth I have said, because you continue to speculate after me to say that I am speaking falsely and that you have not denied any untruths! Tell me, what did I lie about from this tribune? That's what you said in Panorama when I was talking, you were talking after me that I was telling lies. Tell me a lie! [[(Reply from the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov:]] There's no next round here. [[Replications from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov.]] The President will give for you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u63	Mr. Svilensky, thank you. Mr. Manev, you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Apparently, in this National Assembly, as soon as you get the party position, you're going crazy. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Because to claim from the stand of the National Assembly, hidden behind your rights as MP, for another MP honest lies that I do not know where you have not spoken, this is not a male, Mr. Svilensky! That's not fair, Mr. Svilensky! That's not moral! Didn't you get up to talk about morality today from this tribune? Right for the reasons who was pό moral and who was not? Coming out here and pouring dirt on a colleague of yours, knowing you're hiding behind your functional right to a MP, what is there morally? However, in this room, in its left, some of you soon became party functionaries in high office, chiefs of election headquarters. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , new power struggles in BSP, for the management of the newspaper "Words" and whatnot! And you decided to take it out on Manev! That's not an option, Mr. Svilensky, that's not an option! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Solve your problems, stand a man and then we can talk to you! Until then, you're just hiding behind what you don't even deserve to be. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm sorry, but I asked, I looked, so we'll move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Dear colleagues, we continue with a second point of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE MINISTER Council. The report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications will present Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u66	Thank you for your word. Today there is much mention of this word "Word. " Please, before we begin the vote on the Report, put to the vote the proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Boris Dimitrov, President of DXI, and Mr. Anatoly Metodiev, Deputy Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u67	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Metodiev to the hall. Please continue with the presentation of the report, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u68	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 802-01-32, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018, adopted at the first vote on 19 September 2018. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u69	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u71	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, in which the word "title' is replaced by "the title'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u73	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the importing text for § 4 with the editorial amendment, which is on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u77	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u79	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u81	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u82	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u83	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u85	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u87	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u88	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u91	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u93	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u94	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15: ....15......................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 19? 26: "19." "Communication and Information System (CIS) " is a collection of technical (including communication means, border protection devices, cryptographs and signal dissemination environments within the system) and programming tools, methods, procedures and personnel organised to carry out one or more of the functions of creating, processing, using, storing and exchanging classified information in electronic form. The communication and information system may also be built on the basis of one or more separate workstations unrelated to a network. 20. A closed-type service system is a system with implemented protection measures without access to public networks intended to deal with information that is not classified. 21. A link between two or more shall be a link between a link between a single or a multi-directional link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between a link and a link between a link between a link between a link between a link between two or more of a kind, and a link of a link between a link between a link between a link between a link to other information systems for dealing with information that does not constitute classified information for the purpose of the exchange of data and other information resources on a one-way or a multi-way path. The connection between CIS and a system offering only a communication infrastructure for the transmission of classified information protected by cryptographic means approved under the regulation under art. 85, not considered an interconnection. 22. supplier's border is a physical or logical perimeter that defines the limits of protection of the 23. A cross-border protection mechanism is a set of components (programme or technical means) serving to control, monitor and filter to prevent unauthorised access to classified information and information resources in the CIS at interconnection. 24. "Comprometent electromagnetic emissions' are unintended electromagnetic signals related to the operation of technical means for the creation, processing, storage and transmission of classified information whose capture and analysis may lead to unauthorised access to it. 25. "TEMPEST" is a study, study and control of compromising electromagnetic emissions and countermeasures to suppress and limit them. 26. TEMPEST countermeasures are security measures aimed at protecting against unauthorised access to classified information by compromising electromagnetic emissions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u95	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed text? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u97	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u98	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u99	Are there any speeches? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal to amend the name of the division. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u100	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. (1) The acts implementing the law shall be issued or brought into conformity with that law within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) Published until the adoption of the acts under para. 1 regulations shall apply insofar as they do not conflict with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u101	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 17. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u102	The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 18, 19 and 20: .............................................................................. In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 5 words The automated information systems or networks shall be replaced by the communication and information systems. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." carry out accreditation of the communication and information systems in which classified information is created, processed, stored and transported; coordinate and control TEMPEST countermeasures; § 19. In the Military Intelligence Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 71, para. 4 the words "Automated Information Systems or Networks (AIS or Networks) " shall be replaced by "Communication and Information Systems (KIS) " and the words "AIS or Networks" shall be replaced by "KIS." § 20. In the Law on Electronic Governance (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 1, para. 3 the words "Automated Information Systems or Networks" shall be replaced by "Communication and Information Systems."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u103	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to a separate vote the Commission proposal to create paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 with the text on a proposal from the Commission. I vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 18 with a text on the Commission proposal. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20 with a text, according to the Commission's proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u104	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 18 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, with which we have concluded the second discussion of the Bill. Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. We're going to the third point of our work programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE TRADE LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017, adopted in the first vote on 12 September 2018. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs will present Mrs. Atanasova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on the Draft Law amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2017, adopted on the first vote on 12 September 2018............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Law of Trade Amendment Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u107	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u110	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u112	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u113	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 70, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u115	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u116	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u117	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u119	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u120	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u121	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 73, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u122	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission also supports the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u123	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 75, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u124	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u125	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u127	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u128	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u129	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u130	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Yordanka Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Pencho Milkov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 11, paragraph 11 is replaced by the following: 5 the text after the words.. the equal value of. until the end of the sentence is replaced by the higher of the market price of the shares at the acquisition date and at the date of de-silence....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... (1) The temporary certificates issued until the entry into force of this law shall be replaced by name shares. (2) Within 9 months of the entry into force of this Act, companies that issued shares in bearers or substitute temporary certificates shall be obliged to amend their statutes, providing that their shares are named, replace the shares in bearers or substitute temporary certificates with name shares, begin to keep books for shareholders, declare the changes and submit the amended statutes in the trade register to be announced. A certified current statement from the shareholder book shall be attached to the application. (3) After the entry into force of this Act against temporary certificates certifying rights to subscribed shares of bearers, only name shares shall be received. (4) If a shareholder does not present for replacement the shares held by him by a carrier or substitute them temporary certificates within the term under para. 2, the company disbands them. In this case, art. 189, para. 3 sentences third and fourth shall apply accordingly. (5) A shareholder whose shares of a carrier or substitute them temporary certificates are depreciated under para. 4 has the right to ask the company to pay the equivalent of the contributions made to it within a 6-month period of knowledge, but not later than 5 years from the date of the revocation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take note of today's draft amendment to the Commercial Law, which, in fact, a legal institute, such as a carrier's shares, is being removed from commercial law. I will allow myself a sentence as an introduction and it is from the motives of the importer, which quotes Directive 2015/849. This directive states that: Member States are obliged to take measures to prevent abuse of bearer shares. For us it is clear that there is a problem with the value of the carrier shares. There is no problem with the share of the carrier. However, the texts already voted by you presuppose that the legal institute of bearer shares will be dropped by the Commercial Law. What happens after the persons have not stated within the time limit the replacement of shares of bearers with names, and in this case their shares as bearers are depreciated, says the bill importer. In particular, the paragraph with which I disagree, and I will explain why, says: "Attributor whose bearer shares or temporary certificates are depreciated in accordance with para. 4 has the right to ask the company to pay the equivalent of the contributions made within a 6-month period of knowledge, but not later than 5 years. First, bearer shares are not acquired solely for contributions made. Shares of bearers can be acquired even for free, although they themselves have value, for example if you inherit them, so the statement of contribution itself is not accurate. The next inaccuracies in this text is what a person can want. It is intended to ask for the value at the time of the acquisition of the shares, only that this value has changed over the years and may have increased. So I suggest that it be higher from between the two values, the one at the time of the acquisition and the one at the time of the liquidation, as it is with other institutes in law when such a moment is judged. This is fair, because the share carried a certain value to its owner and it cannot, in its depreciation, obtain that value but obtain a value from 15 or 19 years ago. The next imprecise in the proposed text is that people can claim this value after the nullification only within a short 6-month period of knowledge. If the consequences occur after the adoption of the Law within 9 months, knowledge is predestined by the legislator and this 6-month period in my opinion has no basis. The five-year deadline coincides with the total limitation period and it is unnecessary for us to put it in this text. I propose that the text be done: the higher of the market price of the shares at the acquisition date and at the date of de-silverment and drop the text with the deadlines, because the persons may, within 5 years, state the amounts of the shares that have been de-barred from the company. I hope that you will understand the substance of the text and support my proposal, which is in line with the Bill. Shares of bearers will de facto not exist as a legal institute, the question is how will we settle people's rights after their bearer shares are depreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Pencho Milkov and a group of MPs. They voted 81 MPs: 21, against 37, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u134	Vote 85 MPs: 78, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u135	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexandrova and Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... (1) Creditors with bets on bearer shares or substitute them temporary certificates shall carry out within the term under § 11, para. 2 actions in exchange for the bearer shares respectively in exchange for temporary certificates with name shares. Otherwise, the company nullifies the shares of a carrier or their replacement temporary certificates and art. 189, para. 3 sentences third and fourth shall apply accordingly. (2) When replacing the company, the pledge shall be recorded on the name share according to the request of the hostage creditor and shall be entered in the shareholder book. (3) Alinei 1 and 2 shall apply respectively to the retention of shares of a carrier or substitute them temporary certificates under art. 515, para. 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. (4) The lender with a pledge or pledge shall be liable for damage caused guilty to a shareholder due to the nullification of its shares or temporary certificates under para. 1 or false records made in connection with the pledge or pledge on the exchange of shares.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u136	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the wording of § 12 in the version of the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u137	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexandrova and Fikirliyska. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Alexandrova and Fikirliyska. The Commission supports both proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. (1) Commercial companies which do not fulfil their obligations under § 11 and do not have pending proceedings on an application for registration of changes shall be terminated in accordance with art. 252, para. 1, t. 4. (2) Within two months of the expiry of the period referred to in Paragraph 11, paragraph 1 shall apply. 2 The Registry Agency shall draw up a list of companies which have failed to fulfil their obligations under § 11 and have no pending proceedings on an application for entry of changes. (3) The list shall be sent to the Prosecutor's Office for bringing claims pursuant to art. 252, para. 1, t. 4. (4) The list shall be updated every 6 months and shall be sent to the Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u138	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the wording of § 13 in the version of the Commission on the Commission Report. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexandrova and Fikirliyska, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Under-laws shall be implemented in accordance with this law within three months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u140	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 14 and the version of the Commission for § 15. 88 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u141	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Alexandrova and Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 6, which shall enter into force on 1 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u142	Are there any speeches, considerations? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 16. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted, with which the entire Bill amending the Commercial Law. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE OWNITY. Importers: Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs. Adopted on 27 July 2018 in the first vote. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the Second Voting Report: The Act for amendment and supplement of the State Property Act. The Commission has supported the importer's text on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u144	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I am proposing an editorial amendment in the name of the Law to delete the words of the Law. My motive is this. The importer's proposal to add to § 1 of this paragraph. 1 is not supported by the Commission and should be only for the amendment of the State Property Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Mrs. Atanasova's proposal is: in the name of the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the State Property Act, the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You heard the motives. We are going to vote on this editorial proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. In this situation, the vote on what is given in the Report becomes pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u147	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 the words in which the State is the sole owner of the capital shall be deleted. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u148	Are there any statements under § 1? I won't. We are voting for § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u149	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 3 the words "or under the terms and conditions of the Public-Private Partnership Act" shall be replaced by "in compliance with State aid law."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u150	Are there any speeches? Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u151	I take the floor to make a proposal for an editorial amendment in the version of § 2 the word "legislation" to be replaced by "rules." My motive is this: the State Aid Act uses the expression "the rules" in the field of State aid. The version aims only at uniformising terminology, which does not change the meaning.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u152	Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Atanasova's proposal with the exposition of the motive in the version of § 2 the word "legislation" is replaced by the rules. Motive is uniformity of terminology. Vote 87 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We vote on the whole text of § 2 in the version of the Commission with the editorial amendment made. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u153	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u154	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for non-support of art. 3 and his rejection. They voted 86 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u155	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a, para. 1 sentence first the words the undertakings under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law and the commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital are replaced by the state enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u156	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the new § 3. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u157	There has been a proposal from the MP Margarita Nikolova: In the case at hand, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal has been made by the MP Nikolova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian Bank for Development the words as well as the activities under art. 39, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 of the Fees and Fees Act are being deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u158	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the first proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Margarita Nikolova, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 9 against 28, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the second proposal by the National Representative Nikolova, not supported by the Commission, for the deletion of a member of the Law on concessions. They voted 84 MPs: 3 against 37, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u159	A proposal has been made by the MP Christian Mitev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Final provision with § 4: "Concluding provision' § 4. In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 28a: Art. 28a. (1) Export of properties or property which are not part of the property of a commercial company included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 shall be carried out after a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the authority exercising the ownership rights in the company's capital. (2) Aport may be carried out only in a commercial company in which the sole owner of the capital is the company under para. 1 as well as in a trading company in which the company under para. 1 holds part of the capital, and the remaining participation in the capital is state or municipal. (3) Aport may also be carried out upon the establishment of a commercial company under the conditions of para. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u160	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal, supported by the text in the Report, to establish a "Concluding provision' and § 4. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted, and we have adopted and completed the work on point four of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Property Act. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE LAW AND HIS Related RIGHTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report from the Committee on Culture and Media will introduce us to Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u162	There's been a procedural proposal for admission to the court. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 70 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please let the guest be invited to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u163	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing The Act on Copyright and Related Rights, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 27 September 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act was reviewed, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Culture "Ameliya Gesheva" Deputy Minister, Vesela Shtereva Secretary, Katerina Pashova State Expert in the Directorate of Authoric Law and His Related Rights "; the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators: Eva Petrova Jr.; Musicator: Mariana Andreeva Jr., and Ephrosina Sarakinova Jurissult. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva. The change is required by the obligation to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 concerning certain authorised species, the use of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights, for the benefit of blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities, which do not allow the reading of printed materials, and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, hereinafter referred to as the Directive. The directive was drawn up on the basis of the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities that do not allow the reading of printed materials from June 2013. The Marrakesh Treaty contains a set of international rules aimed at guaranteeing the existence of restrictions or exceptions from copyright rules for the benefit of blind people with impaired vision or other disabilities that do not allow the reading of printed materials. It shall make possible the cross-border exchange of specimens of works published in an accessible format. On behalf of the European Union, the Marrakesh Treaty was signed on 30 April 2014. Regulation (EU) 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on cross-border exchanges between the Union and third countries of accessible format copies of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights, for the benefit of blind people, visually impaired persons or with other disabilities, which do not allow the reading of printed materials, hereinafter referred to as the Regulation. The Regulation and the Directive are in force from 10 October 2017, and the Regulation applies directly in the Member States of the European Union from 12 October 2018, and by 11 October Member States must also transpose the provisions of the Directive. The proposed bill, together with the existing possibilities for eligible free use without the consent of the legal carrier and without remuneration, introduces new ones for the benefit of disabled persons regulated in the Directive. The production of accessible format copies such as braille font, large font, adapted e-book, writing (audiobook), radio transmission, etc. is permitted. It is intended to draw up accessible format copies directly from the disabled person with the help of a person acting on his behalf or legal persons who have notified the Minister of Culture. The obligation to maintain and publish on the website of the Ministry of Culture a list of authorised persons shall be inserted or authorised by the Minister of Culture. The bill provides for an amendment to be made to enable the Minister of Culture to delegate powers to its Deputy Minister in relation to collective management registrations. During the discussion, the national representative Emilia Milkova expressed support for the bill and asked a question about the possibility of university libraries creating accessible format copies. Commission Vice-President Diana Savateva asked whether information was received from organisations of and for persons with disabilities or individuals about restrictions on access due to the lack of regulation. Mariana Andreeva from "Musicautor" defined the Bill as timely and raised the question whether there are other deficits in the current law concerning the free use and access to protected works, as well as, if any, when their revision is envisaged. The representatives of the Ministry of Culture responded thoroughly to the questions asked. After a vote was held, the MPs of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 13 votes for a vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Is there a member of this committee in this House? [[Noise and lines.]] Then we will hear the Commission's report on labour, social and demographic policy. I give the floor to the President of the Commission Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u165	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 12 September 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The meeting was attended by Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture, Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Copyright and Related Rights, Katerina Pashova, State Expert in the Directorate of Copyright and Related Rights. The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 concerning certain permitted uses of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities which do not allow the reading of printed materials and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society (OB, L 242 of 20 September 2017.). The Member States of the European Union shall reflect this Directive in their domestic legislation by 11 October 2018 at the latest. The Directive shall be adopted on the basis of the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind people, visually impaired persons or with other disabilities which do not allow the reading of printed materials. Copyright laws of the Member States of the European Union, including that of the Republic of Bulgaria, as a result of the transposition of the relevant European legislation, govern in a harmonised manner the property and non-material exclusive rights of authors and holders of copyright related rights, providing for in their favour a set of powers to authorise or prohibit the use of the relevant sites of protection (e.g. by reproduction, distribution, transmission, transmission, provision of internet access, etc.). In certain cases, where this is imposed by a substantial public interest, these exclusive rights may be restricted and the works and other objects may be used freely, albeit within strict limits. The aim of the new norms is to overcome deficits caused by infringements and disabilities in access to culture, knowledge, information and freedom of expression by creating copies in a format accessible to beneficiaries (accessible format copies). As examples such formats are referred to braille font, large font, adapted e-book, recording of the content of a written work (audiobook), radio transmission and others. The sites of protection which allow for the preparation of accessible format copies, referred to in the Draft Law, written works or related related to them, are any published works of copyright created in writing, reproduced in accordance with the statutory requirements for the consent of the holder of rights, such as books, specialized editions, newspapers, magazines, notes and illustrations to such works. In view of the permissible creation of audiobooks, radio transmissions and others, the scope of the exemption includes objects of related rights (executions, recordings, radio programs). The draft Law provides that accessible format copies may be drawn up by the beneficiary directly, with the help of a person acting on his behalf or by legal persons notified to the Minister of Culture. The categories of such persons referred to in the project are: non-profit legal entities for carrying out public-use activities for the benefit of persons with specific disabilities referred to in the Bill; folk Chitalishtes; public or municipal cultural organisations active in libraries; or special schools for training and support to students with sensory disabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The aim of the Bill is to exempt certain actions which qualify as use within the meaning of the copyright law and therefore require authorisation from the addressees, providing that they may be carried out by beneficiaries, by persons acting on their behalf, or by authorised persons freely, where necessary for the purpose of creating an accessible format copy, or by granting it to the beneficiaries. A general condition for this is the use to meet the requirements of art. 23 of the Law on the Law on the protection of the normal use of the work and on the protection of the legitimate interests of the rightholder. The specific uses by which it is permissible to draw up an accessible format copy are limited to those listed. The provisions providing that authorised persons based in the Republic of Bulgaria may provide accessible format copies to beneficiaries from other Member States of the European Union and beneficiaries or authorised persons with a permanent address or a registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria may obtain a copy in an accessible format or access to such a copy by an authorised person, irrespective of the Member State of the European Union in which its seat is located. A partial preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. A reference has been applied by the Ministry of Justice, according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the compliance of the Bill with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Following the conclusion of the discussion and voting with results: 20 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u166	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. My fellow Members, I propose a 30-minute break, and then we will continue with the reports of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. One message. Dear colleagues, the exhibition will be opened at the Club of the People's Representative. The exhibition will be opened by the Children's School of Natural Arts. The exhibition presents 27 paintings on silk of children from all over the country, who participated in the project The longest drawing on silk of Bulgaria. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u167	The Quaestors, would you invite the MPs to enter the Chamber? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. At its regular meeting on 12 September 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Copyright and related rights in the Ministry of Culture. Due to a parallel review of the Law in the Committee on Culture and Media Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov did not participate in the presentation and discussion in KEVKEF. The draft amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act has been drawn up for the purpose of introducing Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain authorised uses of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights, for the benefit of blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities that do not allow the reading of printed materials, and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. The importers point out that the Member States of the European Union should transpose Directive by 11 October 2018 at the latest. The directive was adopted on the basis of the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities that do not allow the reading of printed materials. The Marrakesh Treaty was adopted on 27 June 2013 under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation and introduced a set of international rules which ensure the application of restrictions or exceptions to copyright at national level for the benefit of blind people with impaired vision or other disabilities preventing the reading of printed materials. The purpose of the Marrakesh Treaty is also to make it possible to exchange cross-border copies of works published in accessible format according to these restrictions or exceptions to copyright. It should thus facilitate access to published works for beneficiaries within and outside the territory of the European Union. The copyright laws of the Member States of the European Union, including that of the Republic of Bulgaria, as a result of the transposition of the relevant European legislation, govern the property and non-material exclusive rights of authors and holders of copyright-related rights by providing for in their favour a set of powers to authorise or prohibit the use of the relevant objects of protection. In certain cases, where this is imposed by a substantial public interest, these exclusive rights may be restricted and the works and other objects may be used freely, albeit in strictly defined frameworks. I'm missing some of the text, as I'm guessing the other reports have already noted. In order to supplement that optional exception and to fulfil the obligations for the European Union arising from the Marrakesh Treaty, Regulation (EU) 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on cross-border exchange between the Union and third countries of accessible format copies of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights, for the benefit of blind people, visually impaired persons or other disabilities, which do not allow the reading of printed materials, hereinafter referred to as the Directive, which this bill provides for transposition. The Regulation and the Directive are in force from 10 October 2017, and the Regulation applies directly in the Member States of the European Union from 12 October 2018, and by 11 October 2018, Member States should transpose the Directive as well. The objective of the prescribed norms is to overcome deficits caused by the above-mentioned infringements and disabilities in access to culture, knowledge, information and freedom of expression by creating copies in a format accessible to beneficiaries. Examples of such formats include braille font, large font, adapted e-book, writing (audiobook), radio transmission, etc. The sites of protection which allow for the preparation of accessible format copies, referred to in the draft law, written works or related related to them, are any published works of copyright created in writing, reproduced in accordance with the statutory requirements for consent of the holder of rights, such as books, specialized editions, newspapers, magazines, notes and illustrations to such works, with a view to the permissible creation of audiobooks, radio transmissions and others. In the subsequent discussion, Mr Christian Vigenin, Chairman of KEVKEF, asked whether the organisations monitoring the protection of copyrights had any considerations regarding the dissemination and use of the sites of protection and the implementation of control over the use of them only by the targeted groups. He also asked a question as to whether the Ministry of Culture has the opportunity to monitor that the amendments provided for in the law should be directed entirely at the people for whom they are intended to avoid abuse. Mr. Melikov assured that the Ministry of Culture will participate in the process of implementing and controlling the Law and will interact with the organizations representing the target groups for which the changes are envisaged. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. With the First Voting Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Mitev will introduce us. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. At its meeting held on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Copyright and Related Rights and Mrs. Katerina Pashova, State Expert in the Directorate of Authors and His Related Rights and Association of the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators, Mrs. Eva Petrova, Member of the Association of Artistautor and Mrs. Nikolay Staykov, Member of the Association of the Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Melikov, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain works and other objects protected by copyright and related rights, for the benefit of blind people, persons with impaired vision or other disabilities which do not allow the reading of printed materials, and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. Mr. Melikov noted that the Bill introduces restrictions on the rights of authors and holders of copyright related rights, creating the possibility of free use of works and other objects of protection from people who are blind, visually impaired or with other disabilities who do not allow the reading of printed works. The draft law establishes obligations for authorised persons as a guarantee of compliance with non-material copyrights and related rights, as well as for the prevention of unauthorised use by persons who are not beneficiaries within the meaning of the law or in ways which are not permitted by the law. The Bill allows for cross-border exchange of copies of works published in accessible format such as braille font, large font, adapted e-book, recording of the content of writing, radio transmission and others. The discussion was attended by the MPs Pencho Milkov, Christian Mitev and Danail Kirilov, who said they would support the bill. Mr. Milkov noted that he does not object to the subjective scope of the bill and the extension of the possibility of free use of printed works by blind people and those with impaired vision. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that Directive (EU) 2017/156 is a serious step in improving the legal situation and access of persons with physical disabilities and who cannot freely use all works in view of the relevant diseases. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 802-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. We move to the sixth point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONVENDENCE FOR THE LEGALISATION OF CHILDING PUBLIC ACTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. You have the floor, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u172	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law amending the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018. At a meeting held on 19 September 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined a Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Karina Angeleva. The proposed amendment aims to align the Law on ratification of the Convention on the abolition of the requirement for the legalisation of foreign public acts with the amended legislation. In particular, this refers to the legislative change in terms of the term "People's Education", which is subject to the law on pre-school and pre-school education, as well as to the passage of the activities of issuing the certificate "Apostille" of educational documents from the Ministry of Education and Science to the National Center of Information and Documentation. No additional funds are necessary for the implementation of the proposed changes. The changes do not introduce provisions of European Union law. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 10 votes in favour, without the votes of the President of the National Assembly, proposed that the Law amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-22, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. The Report of the Committee on Education and Science will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Education and Science on a bill amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Education and Science examined a Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science: Mrs. Karina Angelievka Deputy Minister, Mr. Lyubomir Yosifov, Director of Legal Affairs and Mrs. Yordanka Petrova. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Ms. Karina Angeleva. The proposed amendment aims to align the Law on ratification of the Convention on the abolition of the requirement for the legalisation of foreign public acts with amendments to national law. In particular, changes with regard to the term "People's Education" should be reflected, as amended by the Pre-school and School Education Act, which entered into force in 2016. Furthermore, the implementation of the activities related to the application of the Certificate of Education and Certificates issued by the higher schools and institutions in the system of pre-school, school and vocational education and training was carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science at the National Centre of Information and Documentation. No additional funds are necessary for the implementation of the proposed changes. The proposed changes do not introduce provisions of European Union law. Following the subsequent vote, the Committee on Education and Science, with 12 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u175	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation of Foreign Public Acts, No 802-02-22, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Due to the lack of statements and the desire to change between first and second readings on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that the bill be reviewed now at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Colleagues, I'm putting the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The procedural proposal shall be accepted. Please continue the presentation of the bill, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u178	The Act amending the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the abolition of the requirement for the legalisation of foreign public acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u179	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Bill. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u180	................................................................................... The declaration under Article is the only one amended as follows:. "Bulgaria" states that it is authorized to issue the certificate under art. 3, para. 1 of the Convention are the following bodies: 1. The Ministry of Justice for acts of courts and notaries; 2. The National Information and Documentation Centre for educational and certification documents issued by universities, institutions in the system of pre-school, school and vocational education and training and by the Ministry of Education and Science and its departments; 3. the district administrations for documents issued by the mayors and municipal administrations; 4. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all other acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u181	Thank you. Paragraph 1 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 with an importer text. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u182	'Concluding provision'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u183	That's the name of the division. Colleagues, do you have any comments? I won't. I'm voting on the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u184	..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of paragraph 1. 3 of the Declaration under Article only, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text presented to you in § 2. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. Moving on to the next point of the program: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON FOOD AND EARTH (FAO) FOR THE BUILDING OF THE SUBREGONAL TECHNICAL SOUNDS IN BURGAS CITY FOR THE EXPLAINATION OF THE LETTER TRANSACTIONS. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will present to us Mrs. Desislava Taneva. You have the floor, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u186	Dear colleagues! First, I ask for a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Galin Nikolov. Executive Director of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u187	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. Please invite Mr. Nikolov to the hall. Go on, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u188	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in the city of Sofia Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters, No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 19 September 2018, discussing the quoted bill. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture took part in the Commission meeting. The agreement was presented by Deputy Minister Dobrev, who pointed out that this is one of the initiatives aimed at supporting sustainable fisheries in the Black Sea. The draft Agreement was approved by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2018, and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is authorised to hold the negotiations and sign the letter of reply subject to subsequent ratification. Its main objective is to ensure effective and comprehensive implementation of the obligations of the Subregional Technical Unit. The construction of the unit is related to the stated desire of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency will undertake to provide material, logistical and administrative support for the purpose of the BlackSea4Fish Project. The Agreement is concluded by Exchange of Letters and may be terminated by written 60-day notice by either Party, in which case they will agree on the necessary measures to complete current activities. The commitments of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria included in the agreement are to provide for free two equipped offices in the city of Burgas and, if necessary, an additional office and to provide administrative support and two research vessels to be used for activities covered by the project. In addition, the Republic of Bulgaria will recognise the Passoveres of FAO staff as a valid travel document equivalent to a passport; to assist the free processing and issuance of visas to persons working under the Project and to be responsible for any claims by third parties, except where the request or obligation arises from gross negligence or intentional infringement. The Convention on the privileges and immunities of the specialized agencies to which Bulgaria joined in June 1968 will apply in the implementation of the project. Any amendment will be agreed by mutual agreement and should be acceptable to the Bulgarian government. The Agreement will enter into force after notification by both Parties of internal procedures implemented, until then being applied on a provisional basis by both Parties and in force until it is terminated. The BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria said they would support the bill. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 20 votes for the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a sub-regional technical unit in the city of Burgas to assist the operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters, No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u189	We have a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters by OSD-DG (17),900 of 17 October 2017 and No 53-63 of 26 March 2018, No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 20 September 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters by No OSD DG/17/900 of 17 October 2017 and No 53-63 of 26 March 2018, No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. On 14 February 2018, the Council of Ministers, by a protocol decision, approved the draft Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the FAO on the establishment of a subregional technical unit in the city of Burgas to assist the operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters, as the basis for negotiation and authorized the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to conduct the negotiations and to sign the letter for the conclusion of the Agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to subsequent ratification. The timely construction of a subregional technical unit in the city of Burgas to assist the BlackSea4Fish operations will enable our country to start coordinating the activities of the project and will support cooperation between the Black Sea countries to improve the collection of data (biological, economic and scientific) for fishing in the Black Sea. With the ratification of the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria will support initiatives aimed at supporting sustainable fisheries in the Black Sea and will contribute to better cooperation in the field of scientific and technical activities, including between the national institutes of the countries of the region. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly should ratify by law the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in the city of Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for abstention, without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture for the Construction of a Sub-regional Technical Unit in the City of Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters by No OSD DG/17/900 of 17 October 2017 and No 53-63 of 26 March 2018, No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u191	Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the construction of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters of No 802-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. There are no proposals made between the first and second votes. No proposals have been made since the first vote. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u192	Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for a second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u194	"The Act for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the establishment of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas to assist operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u195	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the bill presented to the Members of the National Assembly. They voted 91 MPs: 91, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u196	I'm the only one. Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Nations on Food and Agriculture (FAO) on the Construction of a Subregional Technical Unit in Burgas for the Assistance of the Operations under the BlackSea4Fish Project, concluded by Exchange of Letters No OSD DG (17),900 of 17 October 2017 and No 53-63 of 26 March 2018. The law was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 10 October 2018 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u197	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text presented for Article to be the only one. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, and thus the Second Reading Bill. We move on to the next eighth point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE COMPLAINT OF THE ACTION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED AMERICAN STATES FOR LEARN-TECHNOLOGY COOPERATION, AS REFERRED TO ON 4 JANUARY 2008 IN WASHINGTON. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 27 August 2018 We have a report from the Committee on Education and Science. Welcome to the report, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, No 802-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, No 802-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. The meeting was attended by Karina Angelievna, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, who presented the Bill. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation was signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington and ratified by the 40th National Assembly on 30 May 2008. In view of the expiry of the Agreement on 17 June 2018, the two Parties agreed its extension by one year, and during this period will be worked on amending, supplementing and updating the text with a view to subsequently signing it for a new period of 10 years. The ongoing negotiations express the will of the Republic of Bulgaria to fully expand the existing forms of international cooperation in the field of research, technology and innovation, which is consistent with the objectives set at European Union level for strengthening relations with third countries. Following the end of the discussion and a vote held, the Committee on Education and Science with 12 votes for abstentions and non-restraints proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Protocol extending the duration of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on scientific and technological cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, No 802-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. You have the floor, Mr. Tanev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, No 802-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. At a regular meeting held on 5 September 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Education Karina Angeleva. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation was signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington and ratified by the 40th National Assembly on 30 May 2008. Due to the expiry of the Agreement on 17 June 2018, the two parties agreed on its extension by one year. It is envisaged during this time to work on an amendment, supplemental and updating of the text with a view to its subsequent signature for a new period of ten years. The Protocol extending the period of validity of the Agreement shall enter into force following the exchange of written notifications between the two Parties by diplomatic means to comply with the relevant internal requirements necessary for its entry into force. The date of the last notification will be considered as the date of entry into force of the Protocol. The ratification of the Protocol aims to contribute to the expansion of Bulgaria's international cooperation in the field of research, technology and innovation. Joint activities are envisaged between the two Parties in the form of coordinated programmes and research projects; scientific seminars, conferences and symposiums; exchange of scientific, technological information and documentation in the exchange of scientists, specialists and researchers, exchange or mutual use of facilities or materials and other forms of scientific and technological cooperation. The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After hearing the reasons for the draft bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 11 votes for the resolution of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, was held with 11 votes for the resolution of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see any requests for speeches. Then we move on to the vote. I will put to the first vote a bill of debate. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Zaharieva, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u202	Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I am making a procedural proposal for a second vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u203	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: 90, against and abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u204	The Act for ratification of the Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u205	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put the name of the bill to the vote. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u206	I'm the only one. The Protocol on the extension of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, signed on 4 January 2008 in Washington, signed on 15 June 2018 in Washington.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-10.u207	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the content of a single member submitted. Vote 92 MPs: 91, against and abstention 1. Sustained. That's how we finish the job for today. The next regular plenary session on 11 October 2018, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
