ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules each parliamentary session shall be opened with the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. [[Everyone's up. The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and the anthem of the European Union.]] Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Today begins this session. At the beginning of the new political season, let us wish for constructive work and synergies on the important issues for our country. In just a few days, we will once again mark one of the most significant dates in our history, the Unification of Eastern Rumelia with the Principality of Bulgaria. We must not forget that this act of unification succeeds because it is a common Bulgarian case and in its defence they are all united. The union is among the events in our history when there is no disagreement between the political forces and everyone supports it because they are aware of its importance for the future of the Bulgarian state. This is an example of both the government's thinking and the behavior of politicians and the unity of the nation. Let us remember today Petko Slaveykov's call to show ourselves as a people forever connected and to seek agreement in the name of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, citizens expect responsible, quick and accurate solutions for the problems of society from us. Parliament's agenda cannot and should not differ from the agenda of the people. At the same time, however, we should not be slaves to the konncture, we are obliged to adopt quality, sustainable and modern legislation. The heated debates and the clash of opinions are necessary and must be present in plenary when defending our policy and defending our views on which solution is useful and working. I hope that during the new season, both the opposition and the government will be divisive and productive. I wish everyone health and successful parliamentary activity! Thank you. [[Applause.]] I'll read you two messages: By letter No SG 818-00-1 of 13 August 2018, the President of the Constitutional Court Boris Velchev recalled that Ms. Tsanka Todorova Petrova-Tsankova's term of office was to be terminated due to the expiry of her nine-year term. Ms. Tsanka Tsankova was elected constitutional judge from the quota of the National Assembly by decision of 22 October 2009. 5, para. 1 of the Constitutional Court Act, according to which a provision three months before the expiry of the term of office of the respective judges, the President of the Constitutional Court proposed to the President of the National Assembly, the President and the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court to elect, respectively, to appoint new judges. Mr. Velchev's letter was delivered to the competent by this choice a permanent Committee on Legal Affairs. The second message: A final audit report on the compliance of the additional costs and transfers to the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget approved by a decree of the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018 has been received by the National Assembly. The audit has been entrusted to the Court of Auditors on the basis of art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors by a decision of the National Assembly adopted on 23 February 2018, as amended by a decision of the National Assembly of 22 March 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is sent to the MPs by their official e-mail and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, according to the parliamentary tradition, each session of ours begins with a statement of the parliamentary groups according to their numbers, with the statements being broadcast directly on the Bulgarian national television channel 2 and on the Bulgarian national radio. I'm proposing a direct broadcast of the statements. Please vote. Vote 202 MPs: 200, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are moving on to statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups. They are first from the parliamentary group of GERB party. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The autumn parliamentary session is opened under markedly good situationality of our country on the European political stage and in the presence of favourable conditions for cooperation between the countries of the Western Balkans region. Our successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union has hardly left anyone in doubt that Bulgaria is getting better and better at stating and defending its interests, organizing and mediating key issues for the European Union, initiatives and events. People saw from close proximity that Europe is interested in us, watching us, listening to us and appreciating us. Our confidence that we are valuable and supported worries our political opponents who have not hesitated to oppose the European problems within us. There are suggestions that the successes of the Presidency in no way help our country. Even the biggest critics cannot be unaware that what has been achieved today has been a wish for the Bulgarian rulers decades back. And as our relations with Macedonia reach new horizons, the left opposition produces only suspicions and doubts. The push to the left does not subside to launch news and events to the detriment of the government, where the political tone of speaking has long passed the limits of decency. There are also criticisms of the coalition format of our government. The pathos here comes from the need of the opposition to formulate and defend national causes, which is increasingly difficult for it. We know that we are an uncomfortable coalition for our opponents because we have managed to resist irresponsible populism. Those who want to replace us in power seemingly nervous and become more and more unpardonable, which scares and repels people. They're trying to kill the acceleration we dialed during the presidency. The more violent and extreme our opponents are, the harder they find their way to people. At the opening of this parliamentary session, we once again state our will to follow the legislative priorities of the management program of GERB and "United patriots" for their four-year term. We are aware that the longer we rule, the more responsibility we take. But we also know that it is because of our perseverance to fulfill our promise and to accept new challenges that we continue to receive public trust and support. This will show again in the upcoming next year elections for the European Parliament and for local authorities. From the parliamentary tribune we are obliged to appreciate what the Bulgarian Presidency has given us invaluable experience, working institutions and cohesive administration. Our account also has its digital dimensions: 46 agreements with the European Parliament, 39 mandates for negotiations with the European Parliament, 58 Council conclusions, 1 conclusion of the Presidency and 6 Council recommendations. Central event of the Presidency was the meeting of the leaders of the Member States of the European Union, with the leaders of the Western Balkan countries held in Sofia on 17 May 2018. This was a first meeting in this format after the meeting in Thessaloniki in 2003. It focused on connectivity in all aspects, as well as the joint response to the common security challenges. The Sofia Declaration confirmed the region's European perspective, and immediately after the meeting the first digital and energy connectivity agreements were signed. The decision to start accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania in June 2019 was a sign of our Presidency. It is no accident that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov pointed out as the greatest success of the Presidency the European prospects for accession of the Western Balkans. The summit was important in the so-called Lisbon format, held in March in Varna. It was attended by the leaders of the European Union and Turkey who had constructive talks. What are our legislative priorities for the forthcoming session of Parliament? GERB's parliamentary group is convinced that the legal process should not be a hostage to arbitrary political interpretations and assessments, because the issue of public trust in our work is very acute. We believe that our work will be appreciated in dignity when we adopt laws with an impressive majority and when we seek public consensus on them. We are not worried that we will be distinguished if we agree with our colleagues from the opposition on important decisions for Bulgaria. We are convinced that strong parties become even stronger when working in an environment of political correctness. Our legislative reform programme for the judiciary will follow the plan towards the updated strategy and recommendations in the reports under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism of the European Commission. In this respect, amendments have already been made to the three main procedural codes of the PPC, the PPC and the APC. We strive to develop e-Justice, e-Communication and Calling, to validate the judicial self-government, including through publicity, transparency and competitions in the judicial system, to apply an updated judicial map to overcome regional disproportions in the division of cases and the uneven workload of judges. The amendments to the Penal Code and the Law on Combating Domestic Violence will build on the regime for combating domestic violence and protection of women and children's personal rights. With regard to budget and finance, we propose annual changes in tax legislation. The Corporate Income Tax Act introduces a European directive relating to two measures: limit and deduct interest and introduce a regime for controlling foreign companies. Through amendments to the Law on Income Taxes, individuals reduce the administrative burden and improve tax reductions for children, children with disabilities and young families. All declarations and references will be submitted by electronic means only. The Tax Insurance Procedure Code improves fiscal control over the movement of high fiscal risk goods by introducing a unique data identification number relating to the transport of goods. GERB sees the state budget as a major factor for stability in the country. We will discuss the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 and the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2019 - 2021 as reasons for it. The parameters of the budgetary framework will be in line with the fiscal rules under the Public Finance Act. The targets set out in the mid-term budgetary forecast for continuing fiscal consolidation 0.5 percent of gross domestic product for 2019, reaching a balanced budgetary position in 2020 and preserving it in 2021 shall be maintained. The amendments to the Public Procurement Act introduce a regulatory framework for the implementation of a national electronic procurement platform. During the new parliamentary session, we hope to adopt the Cyber Security Act at second reading with great parliamentary support. With it, we set the security standards that our information systems must meet. We hope to increase the confidence of citizens and businesses in the online environment. We strive to make full use of the opportunities of the digital world s social media, e-government, e-learning and e-health. There is no doubt that funding is of paramount importance for the sector..................... and that is why we will adopt a working budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. After notification to the European Commission, we are making changes to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine to regulate the drug trade, to limit the deficit of medicines. We will submit a Health Insurance Development Project and we will insist on a broad debate. Changes to the Energy Act will regulate the development of a network of charging stations for electric cars. The will for this has already been stated by all parliamentary parties. The development of charging stations will stimulate the use of electric cars, which will benefit the economy, energy and the environment. We will change the Renewable Energy Act in the biofuels section by increasing the percentage of biofuels. Biofuels are a clean and renewable source of energy for transport. Their increased use will help achieve the objectives of the economy, energy and the environment. We will continue to support the development of the capital market. This is a priority requested by all parliamentary parties. A good example is the launched voucher scheme under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" which funds the primary public offering of shares of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. For professionalism, prestige and perspective we work with the help of various policies in the field of education. We foresee investments in teachers, led by the understanding that the new financial resource for raising their salaries is a way of raising their social and professional status, developing vocational education and training staff in the country's economy. At the heart of it is the career orientation of adolescents since childhood, which requires understanding and involved participation of all stakeholders, development of digital learning through the promotion and use of educational technologies that are part of the training of the new generations. The amendments to the Law on Higher Education improve the accreditation of higher schools, which will provide a higher quality of education. In the field of labour and social policy we propose a draft law on enterprises of the social and solidarity economy, which is part of the cabinet's management program and was submitted to parliament in August 2018. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children is also introduced in Parliament. From 1 January 2019 a new type of monthly aid for children without the right to a deceased parent's survivor's pension shall be introduced. It will be given to the other parent or guardian until the age of 18 years of age of the child, and if it studies, until his secondary education is completed, but not more than 20 years of age. The draft law on people with disabilities will be introduced into parliament in October 2018. Through a whole new legal framework will provide mechanisms for guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities, responsible authorities will be designated for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including the Coordination Mechanism and independent monitoring as required by art. 33 of the Convention. Conditions and incentives will be created for people with disabilities to enter the labour market, to receive money from employment and to integrate into society. The Social Services Act will be submitted to Parliament by the end of 2018 and will deal with issues related to the provision, use, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services. In the field of regional development, we propose changes to the Law on Construction of the Area, which relieves the administrative burden of citizens. The changes to the Roads Act relate to the construction of an electronic charging system from a paid road network based on the distance travelled on vehicles with a common technically permissible maximum mass. After the changes in the Law we expect the annual income to be between 500 million and 1 billion leva. This will provide quality and rapid support for the Republican road network, as well as means to build new priority sections, motorways and high-speed roads. Honourable Members, let us seek agreement on the adoption of laws during the new Parliament session and let us debate culturally and with pragmatic arguments! GERB's parliamentary group believes it is time for the assessment of the quality of the laws to be given on the basis of parliamentary and public agreement with them. Let us bring Bulgaria above all else and wish for what is written on the building of the National Assembly. A successful term! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Statement by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u4	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, dear Bulgarians! We are starting this session with serious public tensions, with a government crisis and instability in the ruling majority. In the last month, there have been two events and a tragedy that say not only in recent months and weeks, they say everything in the last 29 years. The Trade Register collapsed, blocked all economic life in the country, and state institutions were absolutely helpless to react to it. Two hundred and fifty thousand people who the government has obliged to insure for liability were lied to by an insurance company that the government licensed, and the state remained silent to this tragedy. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Third, 17 people died innocent because of corruption and theft, which are already physically killing. This created tension and against the background of the situation came the information that foreign investments have collapsed 10 times, prices are going up, and from 1 October we expect a new increase in the price of gas and hence all goods. What do all these facts say? Corruption and theft, the connection of power to business led to physical death. State institutions are blocked, the state abdicates from caring for its citizens and its obligation to protect them in cases of bankruptcy, but the worst is the reaction of government. The rulers reacted by holding on to the huddles, but not in a dispute about patriotism and patriotism, but in a dispute about positions and money. The main party in the coalition "GERB," as of last night also reacted and in the coming days we will witness the battle Tsvetanov Borisov. [[Noise and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] The resignations submitted by Prime Minister Borisov are challenged by Mr. Tsvetanov. What's all this talking about? For absolute instability in government and uncertainty in the country! The most severe reaction, however, is a dictatorship response. Mr. Valeri Simeonov, who are the marginal groups who want the change of government? Are mothers with disabilities marginalized or fighting for their children's lives? Mr. Karakachanov, who are those who want blood? The ten children of the Bulgarian National Radio people who protest before the Council of Ministers?! [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Or, Mr. Borisov, where are the sleeper cells? You know what they say they're sleeper cells for terrorism and for ISIS. Grandma Dora is a sleeper cell, a terrorist or a woman who fights for the right to work, to watch animals, to work and to make a living with it? That's the reaction of the dictatorship! Anyone who is dissatisfied is either a sleeper cell or marginal because the people rose up and spoke their minds. And that is, "It is no longer possible! " [[Noise and lines.]] Is there an alternative? Because yesterday's media called the situation a circus in power! No, it's not a circus. It's a breakdown of statehood and agony of the people. And there is always an alternative, dear Bulgarians. We need ideas and we are addressing you today to offer them to you. But no ideas in changing this or that law. Ideas for changing the system of 29-year rule of Bulgaria, of power and money, of left and right, which were gathered for the common popular interest, but in fact for their own personal interest. Can we organize national energy to put an end to this model that we all contribute to? This is our address to you, people! And we're offering you a specific conversation, if we can change the system in this way? First, let us say that the state will no longer run away from those sectors that guarantee its national security, health and education of the nation. Can we say that we will not privatize and grant concessions to the Bulgarian Railways, the Bulgarian Post Offices, the Bulgarian Energy Holding? Together with many of you scientists and specialists, we have reviewed and analyzed what economy Bulgaria needs to develop in order to have our own economy and production. And we're offering you this analysis! Bulgaria has resources and staff to develop electrical engineering, electronics, information and communication technologies, agriculture and food industry, pharmaceuticals and chemical industry. Can we bet government care without violating market economy rules for these sectors? Together with the business, we discussed a lot of time "Thank you" for what kind of personnel this economy needs to exist and develop, because it is a mistake that we are going to import personnel. The real, state-of-the-art position is to raise footage. We have this analysis! Bulgaria needs 125 machine engineers, 125 chemical engineers and so on I do not have time to list all the analyses we have reached. We ask you, people and colleagues: can the state bet these specialties in Bulgarian schools, to pay scholarships, to take care of these children, and they, when they graduate, should be obliged to work for a certain time in Bulgaria? We have our vision and suggestions for you on agriculture. How long will ten families in Bulgaria rule the agricultural land and it will be used for investment and not for food farming?! Can we put a ceiling on subsidies? Do we have the strength and the money to restore the Irrigation Systems, to reassign the funds to fruits, vegetables, meat and milk, and not to the ten large ones in Bulgaria who only look at wheat?! I'm looking for a disaster, more money, worse quality. And here we have our proposal to you for a conversation. And that is: state and municipal hospitals are not commercial companies, but hospitals if they want to use the money from the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u5	They're health facilities now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u6	We cannot go against modern economy and against the Constitution. Let's have private hospitals. But if they want to treat and if they want to use money from the Health Insurance Fund, they should become medical institutions, not commercial companies. If they want to remain companies that work with profit, then let's find a mechanism for the rich people in Bulgaria to pay back there and heal themselves. Can we talk about reducing VAT on medicines and food? We can do it! We may not reach an agreement, but it is important to have this conversation, because income and poverty, not false news, gentlemen and ladies, are the real threat to national security - low incomes and poverty and corruption, of course. Let's talk about both colleagues and people: can we introduce family income tax for young people who have children to pay less taxes? We can do that! Can we reduce the VAT on baby goods to help young families? Can young people who take their first place grant a loan in light interest rates? And how long are we going to discuss recalculating pensions?! You can't live with 200 leva. pension. Here are your topics for conversation and topics for consent. We can develop such a different Bulgaria, however, under certain conditions. It is obvious that corruption and theft that this model of the transition is hindering the other development of Bulgaria. How do we get through this? It is also obvious that this majority will not happen and that this House will not. We want this conversation with the people, we want it with the people because this is already at stake, honourable Bulgarians, corruption and theft are laid down in the laws. The majority put the theft in the laws. Make it a legitimate activity, therefore there will be no punishment for them. I'll give you examples. They wanted to simplify Domuschiev's 58 million by law. And who was gonna catch them after that?! [[Comments and shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] They wanted a car dealership to give their close friend the right to license the road transport in Bulgaria by law. And who would be punished for that?! Therefore, in this House, this majority cannot solve these problems. This House, this Parliament and this majority have exhausted their function. We want the government's resignation. [[speaking indistinctly]] , end of this agony, we want a disbandment of parliament and we want early elections. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But, dear Bulgarians, we do not say that we are the smartest and best invented future model of Bulgaria. We give you ideas. Many of them we have developed together with you. Thank you for that. We're on our way. We don't want your votes for BSP. We need your national energy, your Bulgarians, your care for family, your family, your country, your care for the future of children. We come to you because we ask that every reasonable Bulgarian make a contribution that he can make. Change the system and model. The exchange of one minister with another, of one party with another ruling is not enough anymore if the model and system remain the same. We know it's not gonna be easy, and we know it's not gonna be a quick process. We know there will be great resistance, but we need courage of ideas, incorruptibility of people and consistency of actions. That is why our parliamentary group has decided: 20 people will remain in the Chamber and will stand up for the positions of the BSP for Bulgaria and the rest of us are coming to you. We get out of here and we come to you with our proposal, with our request, with our willingness to hear from you. You can be smarter, you can be better, the important thing is to be Bulgarians. I am President of the BSP for Bulgaria. I am speaking to you as a Bulgarian. Indeed, without unity around a national cause and doctrine, about decisions to put an end to this transition nothing will change. Therefore, dear compatriots, open to your ideas, to your mind, to your emotions and to your work, we extend our hand to a future model of governance of Bulgaria, which puts different values in its basis. And they are: justice, solidarity, equal opportunities, a better life for you, national sovereignty and Bulgarianity. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the next statement by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u8	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u9	Colleagues, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of the autumn session it is right with renewed forces to focus our attention on the upcoming tasks ahead of us as a legislative body: to outline the framework of the political agenda with the expected results by deadlines; main priorities in internal policy at EU level, foreign policy and so on; actions to start and implement reforms in the country; positions on the main topics in the European Union; clear tasks of the government during the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union. But now we need to concentrate on what the new political season presents us... extremely complex social and political environment and escalating public tensions. Our warnings from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the creation of an unprincipled coalition at the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly in the name of power and only of power were not heard. There's no more time today! We need to solve the biggest problem before the state. The collapse of statehood. The state is erotic, the citizens' trust falls dimly, and we must stop this, and the government must bear their responsibility. What are the factors behind this infinitely alarming situation? Firstly, the lack of a state-owned approach and state policy, a management vision for our state, not for the mandate of a party or coalition, the replacement of a consistent, systematic state policy with a superficial and populist policy, a non-stable and ever-growing open war between the institutions at all levels, even inside the Council of Ministers, and at departments. This constant counterbalance, born and maintained because of the management weakness, blocks any solution to any problem, from the smallest one, such as this one where, to which authority the synoptics are to, through the problems of the Commercial Register, the problem of livestock plague, to the cardinals about the stability of major systems in the country. The war within and between the institutions must stop because otherwise the end of statehood becomes inevitable. Secondly, institutions speak in different languages with an unnecessary acquittal regime. Thus, dialogue does not exist, and institutions are therefore such as to be in continuous dialogue with other related ones and with citizens as their employer. The institutions began to experience themselves as independent bastions of power and their defence became their main cause. That's how statehood stops functioning. Thirdly, the management of the state with the practice of buying time is not solving the problem......................................................... The funds for this buy-in time will then be paid for by all of us citizens of the country. And we citizens are well aware of this in our pocket. Buying time is actually poverty. This policy has to stop. Last but not least, the bloated canvases of populism and nationalism in Bulgaria and in Europe. Unfortunately, now populism and nationalism in our country is in power, belligerent and unceremoniously imposes its notions, too far away from fundamental rights and freedoms, and democracy. As a consequence of the policy, the citizens live in a ridiculously double time. One, the sacramental-management, imposed by those in charge of unending victories, heroes, successes and significant economic progress. The mythological time of the prosperous nation. And the other, of the individual member of the nation, of the rude reality, of the empty pocket, of the huge problems of health care, of education, of low purchasing power and personal dissatisfaction with life. The lack of vision, the unifying goals for the nation and the lack of expertise put the government in an inability to make adequate decisions and make any decision unfit for social use. Today, the main problem facing the state is: urgent and urgent resuscitation of statehood, of fundamental democratic principles of governance, so that at least the state can take its own breath from the unwinding scandals and our daily unsolved problems. In this sense, the main issue is now not just in the government itself. It's practically gone with abdicating its duties. It remains only the act of leaving the power to form a legal form. Changing ministers, so what?! Change the formula so what?! Early elections, so what?! The more important question for us than the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is: what to do next? How and in what way to restore democratic mechanisms of governance and how to rebuild the authority of statehood? How do we get back to normal? How to start the dialogue between parties, between institutions, between citizens, between us in Parliament and between us.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And this is the problem of the problems for the resuscitation of statehood, the main task of the National Assembly during this session. A problem that is not within the power of either party or coalition. An hour before we start this dialogue! To have the will and the power to be able to solve problems. And that's why we have to start now and now. Because we are talking about the present and future of our country with a common goal of saving statehood and strengthening the trust of citizens in institutions; working firmly on the irreversibleness of democratic processes, stability and security, economic growth, guaranteeing human dignity, citizens' rights and freedoms. A clear programme for accelerated development, deep reforms and a new type of governance is needed. It's time for experts and unifying ideas. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our warnings to the main political entity on the first day are about their responsibility for the management of the country and the situation of the Bulgarian citizens. In this acute crisis of statehood, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we state: a rapid action is needed to restore discourse in all of its types within and outside the institutional level; strengthening the expert start as a basis for political decisions; restoring the normal dialogue between parties; setting realistic priorities with a deadline for their realization. GERB has the last chance to take political responsibility for the failure of its policy, to propose adequate solutions today, because tomorrow will be too late. The formula of power is wrong, and if it doesn't change, nothing will change. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian compatriots! Dear colleagues, listening to you, perhaps I should congratulate you not only on opening the new session, but rather on the beginning of the new election campaign. Because in the appearances of some leaders we see that suddenly they cared about the people, again opened bags of false promises. They hope that people will forget what they have done all year long, want to show off the targets in white and fool voters again. Only this trick won't work again. Dellas are necessary, colleagues, not words! That is why we at Volja....are demanding that this session be much more fruitful and effective than the previous session. The different parliamentary group will continue to be Volja. The months since the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly have clearly shown the people who is who in the Bulgarian politics, who with what intentions has entered here, how much they can and whether they really want to do something for our people. We appeal to you for more pragmatism and efficiency of decisions, less empty talk and unnecessary debates, whose sole purpose is to scratch the ego of some MP in front of TV cameras. The European Parliament elections and local authorities are on the horizon. As I said, the campaign for them has obviously already begun. Coalition partners are constantly fighting in public, thinking people don't remember what they were doing together until recently. Others tighten the internal party ranks, third one gets a screaming PR share. Somewhere in all this noise remains forgotten the most important Bulgarian citizen. The one who sent us here to work for him first. You know what people say most about politicians? Now that you go to the people, dear colleagues of the BSP, you will also understand. They don't care about us. That's what people say. By "they," they mean MPs, ministers, president, the entire political class. Because, colleagues, there have been two Bulgarians for a long time. One barricaded itself behind the thick walls of the higher state institutions and watched at all costs to stay there, secure its relatives with public procurement, appoint protégés to key positions, arrange for as large budgets as possible and wonder where in the world to spend its commissions. On the other side are the people who can barely make ends meet and take enslaving quick credits in trying to prepare their child for the first day of school; people who count the pennies of their small pension; people who wait worried about the queues in hospitals; people who buy second quality food in shops; people who break their cars in the street holes that are being robbed every day by cartels. I'm not going to list any more examples. If you have a conscience and eyes, you must see them. The gap between the two Bulgarians is already huge. The inaction, incompetence and corruption of one Bulgaria destroys the other. This gap can only be filled if we do something useful to people every day. For us, the Bulgarian citizens come first from Volja. We've proven it categorically with our deeds before we entered politics. That is the point of being in the National Assembly. No parliamentary day has any value if we have not done at least one specific thing on that day to improve the lives of our people. This will also be our position during this session "real deeds for the benefit of the people." We will not tire of repeating it to you and taking off the masks of hypocritical politicians, because we see that, crossing the door of this building, some quickly forget what they promise and who chooses them. In this sense, I would remind you that during the last session you made a strange coalition with Minister Karakachanov. All together you gave him the unprecedented amount of several billion leva for unnecessary frigates and airplanes. A deal that we appreciate as Bulgaria's biggest robbery, because with KTB are 4 billion buried, 250 000 Bulgarian citizens are robbed with the affair "Olympik" and some others here we are talking about the rounding amount around 10 billion Bulgarian levs. Therefore, nothing will really happen from what Cornelia Ninova asked: Will this happen, do we have the legal opportunity to do this?- No, we do not have the opportunity, because after the meeting with the US Ambassador and you supported this deal, and the money for Bulgarian healthcare, education, for the safety of the people just evaporated. With these billions, many of the promises made in the election program could be fulfilled. For example, to put a police officer in every village, as promised by Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov and VMRO to their voters. Fast and effective reforms could be made in several sick social spheres, which could be felt immediately by the people and they could see that someone here cared about the people, but it didn't. Apparently, when you think about spending billions of people's money, your mind gets clouded and promises are forgotten. That is why we have always said that there should be sober people in institutions, and I would say sober people who think differently and know what people expect of them. And above all, those who are honorable and able to resist the temptations of power. Let the Bulgarian citizens know that if in the next elections we have and receive more support, we will cancel this disgraceful decision, and the money, now proposed for airplanes and frigates, will be allocated to specific policies in education, health, social activities and security, and will even remain. In your election programs you promised the return of medical care to small settlements and increase of pensions - BGN 300 minimum, reducing the administrative burden for citizens and for business, overcoming the demographic crisis, increasing the teachers' salaries. How have you failed to achieve this consensus that almost all those who have spoken before me have spoken about for all these beneficial policies for the people?! Even in the welcome of the President of the Parliament there was such a request a consensus on the main topics. Well, on these main topics, on these policies, how could you not reach consensus, not even mention them anymore, but about the billions of airplanes you voted as one?! Here's a vivid example of why people say, "They don't care about us because your actions confirm it. For the MPs in the House of Politicians, it means serving your people, not serving someone, was yourself, was behind the scenes. We strongly believe that the Bulgarians are already waking up and in the future will vote on such politicians, and others will be given what they deserve because every patience has its limits. We wish you success and let the National Assembly begin to work more effectively and truly in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, we are continuing on the programme voted in advance for today's extraordinary plenary session. The first point is: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF THE LEARNINGS FOR 2017 Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting the Report of Your Attention, I request permission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mr. Petar Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u15	Please, voting mode. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u16	Dear Madam President, I also apologize for voting on another admission to the House of the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Revalski. He will present the report of our attention afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u17	Colleagues, please, vote mode. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u18	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017, No 805-00-1, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 24 April 2018. At its regular meeting held on 13 June 2018, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above-mentioned Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 24 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Professor Ivan Dimov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Professor Kostadin Kostadinov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science; Academician Rivalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, who presented the Report; Professor Evdokiya Pasheva, Senior Research Secretary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; representatives of the academic community and of the trade union organizations in the field of higher education and science. In 2017, 2683 academics were employed at the Academy. The publication activity includes 3391 titles in international reference magazines, which is an increase of more than 10% compared to the previous year and is almost 60% of all Bulgarian publications. Traditionally, the highest share has the direction of Nano sciences, new materials and technologies and the direction of................................................................................................. In 2017 the budget subsidy reached 78 million. 854 thousand. lv. Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. The own revenues and transfers in 2017 were 51.9 million. lv. They are formed by contracts under international programs and agreements, by contracts with ministries and offices, with Bulgarian and foreign companies, by selling production, services, donations and others. To them are added transfers from the Research Fund, from ministries and offices, from operational programmes and other programmes of the European Union. Written opinions on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in 2017 came from the Minister of Education and Science, from the Minister of Economy, from the Minister of Defence, from the Minister of Environment and Water, from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, from the Council of Rectors and from the Federation of Scientific and Technical Unions in Bulgaria, all supporting the Report, and the Minister of Education and Science gives six recommendations for the next annual report. Oral opinion expressed the representatives of the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" at the CST, who called for faster signing of a collective employment contract and recommended the next report to include financial analyses by units. The discussion included MPs Anelia Klisarova and Stanislav Stanilov. They noted the successful cooperation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with the universities under the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." There was a concern that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences does not have enough young scientists and that unlike its analogues in Western Europe, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences works in overheating mode with nearly 40% attracted external funding on applied tasks, which limits the development of fundamental disciplines and classical science. The President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences informed that the financial report for 2017 was certified for the fifth year without any remarks from the Court of Auditors, which happens to very few organizations in the country. On the implementation of the recommendations of the Minister of Education and Science, work is already being done, including for the formation of a unit to support both the preparation of projects and the training of young people in terms of their success in projects. There are also incentives for young scientists to encourage them to publish in high-end magazines. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with results: the National Assembly proposed to adopt the following draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Before I give the floor for speeches, academic Revalski for the presentation of the report. Do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u20	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Allow me to briefly present some highlights of the Annual Report related to the work of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017. [[Initiating computer presentation.]] We chose this thought as a motto of Vasil Levski because we are really convinced that the future is in our hands and it is up to us how science will develop in Bulgaria. Usually this report has a standard consistency when presenting things, so I will follow it as usual, but before I do this, I would like to mention a few highlights for 2017, which were essential for the work of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. First of all, this was our extreme attention to young staff at the Academy. He completed a youth program to encourage young researchers, which was financed by the Ministry of Education and Science, and started a new one. Both programmes are seen as an extremely successful and vibrant breath of air for our young people and their future development. The second accent that I want to share is that the awards that the Ministry of Education and Science awards each year, year-to-year "Pythagoras" showed in an unambiguous way that the potential in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is at an extremely high level. Five of the awards went to scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in various fields. We have also been very actively involved in the initiatives of our Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society, Mrs Gabriel, related to digitalisation. A very important element related to the Presidency was holding shortly before it at the Advisory Scientific Council of European Academies. He held his meeting in Sofia. I would like to emphasise in particular that this Advisory Council was created with the idea of drawing up opinions that would support decision-making by politicians at European Commission level and expect the academies that are members of it to do the same work in the respective countries. I think the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as will be seen a little later, has made a significant contribution to some key decisions. A new thing started last year "An initiative for the presentation of the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences." Eight such presentations were held, the aim being to get acquainted with our general public, and very important is each time in the presence of young people, with the achievements in the relevant scientific field and with what prospects are expected in the future. I would not miss to mention the fact that the activities of the Student Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have been significantly expanded. This is our work, which is related to working with the youngest people who are students, with a view to promoting them for future research. Now a few words are already on the report's very statement. As you know, the Assembly of academics and correspondents includes both representatives who work at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and other scientific organizations in the country, as well as artists of art. It can definitely be said that there is a high level of sustainable development, both in terms of the audience activities of our colleagues, participation in scientific forums, research projects that they are conducting, and also related to the pedagogical activities of our colleagues. We can definitely say that this academic body contributes very much to the development of science not only in BAS, but also in Bulgaria as a whole and with its tireless activity they contribute both to the development of research and to the development in the field of culture and at all in the spiritual sphere. A few words on the science data. There are a few facts behind these numbers. The first thing I would like to point out is that we are seeing an increase in the quality of production in the so-called first quarter of the world's databases. We have significantly above average success rates. On the other hand, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and scientists in it contribute significantly to Bulgaria's visibility. This is the second number, which is shown by the so-called h-index of the country. As you can see, from 225 is the contribution of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. And, of course, we have the achievements in the hottest, in the top layer of scientific achievements, both in terms of citriumity and in terms of our publications, which top the rankings of the relevant scientific areas. In short, in this part, without going into many details, there is an increase in the quality of scientific production, a good visibility from the world's databases, which are Web of Science and Scopus. On the next two slides, there are several data that I will not dwell on very closely. These are: the distribution of these best articles, the best publications, how they are at different institutes, and the distribution of those publications in the first quarter of the world databases in a direction, as noted in Mrs. Damyanova's report, energy resources and energy efficiency, nanosciences and new materials stand in the forehead of this ranking. This was also noted in Mrs. Damyanova's Report on Traditional Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is somewhere between 50 and 60% of that scientific production, which is visible in the Web of Science and is provided by scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This slide shows just one resistance and strengthening also of the scientific data related to the quotations of scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Let me say not much more in detail, but still, the project activity, which is extremely important in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We see in 2017 compared to 2016 a strong increase in the number of projects, the main part of which is due to our scientific fund, but we have an increase, as is noted, of projects from abroad, which is very enjoyable. We have 1,500 projects. With regard to these projects, the additional funding received by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as you see on this slide, has been sustainable in the last three years, somewhere within 45 million. BGN, and maintain this trend. These are additional, once again, revenues related to scientific projects and scientific developments. I will also say two words that the success rate in competitions is very high. That's a really significant percentage of almost 60%. Moreover, this slide shows that we are quite successful in the field of sciences, which are not primarily involved in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, such as agricultural and medical sciences. With regard to the Horizon Programme, we have 11 new projects in 2017 worth about 1.5 million. BGN, so the total number in this Horizon 2020 Programme reaches 56 and therefore the amount is somewhere over 15 million. lv. In short, the two slides that show what comes from Bulgaria and abroad as additional funding in terms of scientific projects and research contracts. As you can see, in Bulgaria the main ones are ministries and offices, but it is also essential from the commercial companies, where almost 10 million come from. lv. From abroad, the situation is, as you can see, there are 31% from the European Union, 40 from others. Here are different other organisations, but I stress that there is also a small amount of money coming from companies from abroad, which shows that companies from abroad appreciate our scientific achievements and have developments with us. There are several slides that I will not dwell on very closely because there is no time, but I would like to say that somewhere around 15 projects are given that reflect the fact that we are a sought partner from international scientific organizations, starting from the field of information and communication technologies, mechanics, physics, going through electronics, through machine building, through geology, chemistry, microbiology, biology in general, it is also very important to note. Let me also point out that our institutes in the field of social and humanities are also very active. As you notice, four projects related to different countries in different areas are provided by our colleagues in joint projects. And last but not least, of course, we still have very good achievements in the field of space research and construction there, as well as, this may be one of the most popular, great archaeological expeditions, especially the one that was with research on the Black Sea, related to our National Archaeological Institute with a museum. With regard to expertise, I would just say that we have extremely rich expertise in supporting various institutions, state ministries, Council of Ministers, municipalities, along our regional academic centers. We also have, of course, foreign expertise. I won't stop here at numbers, but I can assure you that in this direction the work continues. I will mention only three or four key projects in this area, which are very important, and they are related to the project for overcoming the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria. There are other more diverse, not so large, but still important experts that are useful to the state and related to nuclear safety, to the environment, to the things related to seismic risk in Bulgaria, and, of course, monitoring the Black Sea. One important thing I would like to point out in the area of applied research is that we have established in 2017. 22 patent inventions, as well as 17 useful models. For the importance and the high appreciation of these achievements, I think the awards of the inventor of the year speak most clearly to me. They are in the field of chemistry and biotechnology, in the field of robotics, in the field of machine building. We have, of course, others. I only mentioned a few. Brief information about scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. First of all, I'm going to mention a very important fact that I made last year as a flaw. This year has significantly increased the number of defense students, which shows that we are going back to the normal levels of defending PhD students because they are still our future and we hope that they will continue further research at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of course, and in other scientific organizations. With regard to scientists, there is traditionally a slight decrease in the number by a few percent. It's the same this year. Currently they are under 2700, their internal-academic structure is maintained as it was last year. We don't have much movement with professors or docs or chief assistants. Harmonically, this is where career development goes. What is worrying, however, is the age structure. As you can see, this two-back, as we say, camel is not good for the future, because there are too many people who are close to retirement age and there will be no one to replace them as the highest expert and highest level scientists in Bulgaria. We have always been and will continue to be a national spiritual center. And here, too, without going into too much detail, I'm going to mention a few things. Perhaps the most memorable is that the application for the Bulgarian Chitalishte is already recorded in the Register of Best Practices for Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO. In a proper way we celebrated the 180th anniversary of Vasil Levski and the 150th anniversary of Vasil Zlatarski. There was a celebration of Elin Pelin's 140th anniversary. There was a nice exhibition here about donation. Our library also presented a very interesting exhibition. But I would especially like to mention the exhibition that was organized by our Archaeological Museum in Vienna. I was lucky to be present at the opening and to see what great interest it caused in Vienna, after which it was seen by an impressive number of visitors, namely the first gold: Ada Tepe, the oldest gold mine in Europe. I can assure you that the assessment of Austrian colleagues for our colleagues from the Archaeological Institute with a museum was very high. I'll continue with a few more exhibitions, editions, but let's get to the dry numbers. Regarding the subsidy, and Mrs. Damyanova mentioned it, slightly below 79 million. lv. It is more than 2016 because at the end of 2016 we received by decree of the Council of Ministers an additional little over 5 million. lv. You can see the distribution that you can look at in more detail on the website.. I will not be able to list everything that is here. Just giving one distribution of own income, which is just below 52 million. lv. In fact, the subsidy and this own revenue, which comes from projects and from other activities, give a total budget to the Academy over 130 million. BGN, where it is also given how he did it. What is more important to know and what was noted in the Commission report is to see what is the ratio between own revenues, which is yellow, and a subsidy that is pale blue. This ratio is maintained in recent years in a ratio of about 60:40. Our opinion is that it is on the border and we need to take measures to change it in favour of more institutional, so that the work can calm down a bit and not be as overheated as has been mentioned. The costs are given here. It is unlikely that you will be surprised that most of them are for the salaries of the workers what is in the dark blue. I'm not gonna stop at others too much. Here are the capital costs, also take a look at what they are: they are provided entirely by their own resources. The last three years have been like this. Unfortunately, we have no other means. A few conclusions that can be drawn. First of all, we would like to note that something very important happened in 2017 not only for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but also for Bulgarian science as a whole. It was adopted by you National Strategy for Research Development, in which it is explicitly stated that the amount of institutional funding for science should be linked to the scientific and applied results. We strongly support this principle and stand by it. The other thing I would like to point out is that in a pilot study conducted by the Ministry of Education and Science for the Evaluation of Scientific Institutions, 21 scientific units of BAS receive the highest grade and fall into the category of elite scientific organizations, and almost all other units are assessed as effective. One more thing I would like to point out is that in 2017 we began to overcome a flaw that I said in the previous report a year ago, namely to improve the quality of our scientific publications. We have about 10% growth of this type of publications that are kept quality, namely indexed or published in magazines with an impact factor. Of course, as I have already noted, you have seen the proceeds of scientific projects. The main part, which is related to infrastructure in the scientific field and to scientific activity, arrive on projects. Here are given several numbers to which I will not stop your attention. On the same occasion, as I have noticed, we have a significant increase in both European Union projects and various programmes, most of which are from the Structural Funds. I have already stressed that the focus of our attention was on working with young people in the first place. I mentioned the program that ended on the line of the Ministry of Education and Science and the new one that started, as of course, and that our young scientists were honoured with proper awards. It is very important to note that there is considerable growth in the PhD students they have defended. Last year it was about 70, now it's twice as much. I say: last year I mean 2016 I mentioned that the emphasis was also promoting the activities of institutes to society. Of course, we note that there is still something to be done in this regard. Eight units presented their activities, there is more to be done, and for this reason we are developing a Public Communication Strategy. Many of the things we had planned for 2018 are done. The main thing is the development and adoption of the Strategy for Development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, has already been done, as well as the active participation in the development of programs with the Ministry of Education and Science. There are a few more important things here. The relationship with business and the work with higher schools, which are natural. I would like to conclude with a finding that I hope we all share, namely that in a modern country the development of science is fundamental to its future, its education, health, its security and all the key elements of socio-economic life. Science has both visible things, some of which we can see with numbers, but there are, of course, invisible things that happen in the process of work and will give their fruit in the future. I hope that we will all agree on the conclusion that sustainable investment in research in a country is key to its future. I also hope that in the future what is related to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will be of your attention, and we, on our part, make a commitment that we will continue to work as actively for the development of research in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u21	Thank you, too. That concludes the presentation of the Report. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Professor Klisarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Academician Revalski, first of all, I would like to thank you for what I said in the Commission for presenting us in a short version the so detailed report that has produced the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In this report I absolutely think, and we all agree that the Academy's achievements are many. This is an established scientific organization, it is the most popular in Bulgaria and therefore we thank you for your work. But in this regard, I would like to draw attention to two paradoxes. The first case I can't explain why it is, it's that the Academy has the biggest H or Hash, as you say, index. This is an indicator that shows the achievements in science. It is a science-metric indicator and absolutely objective. If we talk that the standard is one quarter, then in the H-item in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is one third of all indicators. Indeed, an extraordinary achievement for which we congratulate you. It is no less important that 60% of the scientific output from our country in the visible part, in the reputable journals in Scopus or in Web of Science, are again from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is also with the quotes in popular magazines. Here I would like to emphasise: the money-in-fund result. Scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are making immense, extraordinary efforts with the available funds, with the available budget to achieve these high results. It is no coincidence that when we looked at the Commission and today your presentation, we did not see the salaries of scientists, especially the salaries of young scientists. And this is the first paradox because it is precisely from this long-standing underfinancing of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that come next, and extremely worrying, indicators. I saw in the table, up to 26 years old, do you know how many employees are at the BAS? Two! Two scientists under 26, otherwise we're developing a program! In 30 years there are 26 and over 65 are 212. Those are the facts! We can adopt the Strategy for the Development of Science in Bulgaria, which I welcome, but without providing funds for the implementation of this strategy, there is no way that things will happen. Since 2009 we have been talking about underfinancing, and here, you know, in the last month the problem with the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at BAS is extremely acute. Why is that? Again, an expression of underfinancing. The Institute says: "We need 20 million. " The entire budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018 is 83 million. lv. It is true that 15 million extra were granted. We should not solve problems per piece or solve problems when a situation arises when a protest occurs. I think we should react absolutely in time, in due time, because what happens now? Yes, the Institute will come out of the ranks of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is how the Ministry of Education and Science and the Council of Ministers will decide. But does this mean that other institutes need to get out of the BAS structure so they can be funded enough, and that's our goal? I'm asking this question and I'm extremely worried. This is the next serious problem, except for young scientists, how will the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences exist? In this regard, I would like to call on everyone: we do not yet have to solve problems when protests arise when tensions arise. Let us consider in Budget 2019 how, with what funds and how much will be financed the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u23	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable academic Revalski! We, as a political party, have stated several main priorities related to the financing and development of science in Bulgaria, with its direct commitment to the needs of society and its development, increasing the funding of scientific activities to reach a minimum of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, attracting young scientists in the field of research and linking research to business. In this regard, I can confirm that the proposed Report for 2017 points to the Academy as a leading scientific organization in the country. According to our priorities, we can point out that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences continues to take steps consistent with the priorities set out in the National Strategy for Research Development and with the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization. A year ago, the parliamentary majority provided a strategic framework for the development of national research policy through the adoption of a National Strategy for the Development of Research in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2030, as well as a National roadmap for scientific infrastructure 2017 - 2023. The introduction of the programme principle of funding of science, which was laid down in the definition of 11 major scientific programmes, began to have a positive effect. The 18 million insured. lv. in this regard they are primarily targeted at programs of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as a chief contractor and partner in research consortiums. It is indicative that the practice of the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to participate in the meetings of the Council of Ministers in the discussion of key policies and decisions in the field of scientific policy has been resumed. The proposed document informs us that for the past reporting period the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences generated more than half of the country's recognizable scientific output or 59.4%, which essentially made it a monopoly in the field of scientific achievements according to the criteria adopted as standard of science. Today we recognize 21 out of 42 elite institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the rest have covered good assessments. So the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has become a true hub of national scientific achievements in general. I must also emphasise the fact that the government has granted in addition 15 million. lv. to finance individual scientific fields in accordance with the results achieved. This is the right approach by introducing the competitive principle to finance and increase the efficiency of the work. At the same time, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences began to prove itself as an effective institution that can successfully implement project endeavors. Only in the competitions of the National Science Fund BAS has won 57% of the funded projects. In this regard, we must also emphasise the important step that has been taken in the last year................. of the Research Fund at the Research Promotion Agency, which has given additional dynamics and operationalness to the institution. BAS is already proven as a leading participant in nine of the 10 newly established centres of superiority and competence, where the close link between science and business is measured at a value of 273 million. lv. Key evidence of such conclusions is also found in the fact that the main contributions of Bulgarian scientists are concentrated in the most modern and rapidly developing directions such as sciences. The sciences, information and communication technologies, biomedicine, energy efficiency and ecology. That is why the targeted funding of these scientific directions in the past period has been increasing. In relation to our key priorities, let me remind you that in 2016-a and 2017, two pilot projects totaling 2 million were implemented. BGN related to the attraction of young scientists. This leads to 2018 when 1 million PhD students are allocated to the work of PhD students. BGN, of which 50% are for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and for the activities of post-doctoral students 3 million. BGN, as 2 million lv. of them are directed to the BAS. About the growing potential for the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the recognition it receives, the high level of funding of research by the European Union as well as other international institutions such as NATO, UNICEF and UNESCO also speaks. The participation of Bulgarian scientific teams and individual scientists in 262 bilateral agreements for scientific cooperation and exchange and 300 scientific publications is also significant. We very much hope that the Academy will continue to develop its important task as a predictive centre for evaluation and analysis of key public and economic trends. Its research groups form a foundational expertise in formulating the long-term national policy. This is what the growing funding of similar projects by ministries and agencies and the implementation of joint projects with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences shows. This essentially means recognition of its inclusion in the practical implementation of long-term tasks in the operational functioning of the country. In this sense, we will continue to strongly support the development of all the activities of the Academy aimed at provoking the interest in science and research among young people and using all opportunities to attract young scientists from the Bulgarian diaspora outside the country. It is important for us to update and expand the academic teams of the Academy in the context of the modern specialization of its scientific units and in accordance with the Horizon 2020 Programme. With this position, we express our positive opinion on the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017 and declare that we will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Stoyanova! I listened very carefully to your protection of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in 2017 and I agree with this opinion. My reply is primarily related to the responsibilities we have as MPs and also to the forthcoming adoption of the 2019 budget related to the financing of BAS. In 2009, BAS's budget subsidy could not have been more than 94 million, and 10 years later it could have been 87 million, including 4 million capital expenditure. He is a participant in projects important to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but they cannot provide wages, they cannot raise the level of wages. It was no accident that my colleague asked the question: what is the average salary? How much do PhDs get, how much do young people get, how much do big and small doctors get? Miserable salaries, and you want them to carry out and capitalise on Bulgarian science. We adopted a Research Strategy in Bulgaria. This strategy says that there should be a differentiation of wages according to research. BAS is a leading institution. This differentiation means that they are finally on the payroll line in the scientific field. Apart from that, it is written in this strategy that there should be minimum wages for those employed in science that at least cover the need to support their activities. And that's not done. The third year's strategy is boxing. Those are my lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u27	Thanks to Professor Bachvarova. Are there any other lines? You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I apologize for not listening very carefully to the government's eulogy towards the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but I heard that you mentioned some 15 million that the government has granted to them. My question to you is: why, on a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, did we propose that this 15 million in the budget should go to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, you, the majority of GERB, then voted against it, and now you are boasting that in some way............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should be supported and it should be supported in the first place by the government and by the government, whoever they are. And there must be absolute consensus on this. I don't want to pick on you in any way, just remind you of what you did in the previous budget and remind you not so much of you as a line, as the whole majority knows that tomorrow comes again a new budget procedure and when we offer something good for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, for other scientific institutions where we have to have consensus, to comply with what we say, because then you will still have to distribute money in some way, as it did for the temple "Alexander Nevsky" as it did for the Holy Forest, and for dozens of other things, not to repeat. That's my cue to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Professor Bachvarova! I understand your concern about the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' budget, which is what it is at the moment, but in fact, if you wanted to raise the level of 2009, you could have done it 2013, when you managed, but you didn't, and now you are expressing your concern here, from the stands. I assure you that consultations are yet to be made regarding the 2019 budget. With regard to Mr. Gokov's question, I would like to respond to the idea of granting the 15 million. BGN, if you have listened to me carefully, as you said, but obviously it was not so, it is precisely that they are allocated to the work of a competitive principle. That is, where there are results from the scientific fields, where there is high efficiency, naturally, there will be directed these funds, and not the mudguard, as you wanted. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as presented by the President of the Committee on Education and Science. Vote 127 MPs: 125, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Academician Revalski. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Importers are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. There's a report from the Health Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. At its regular meeting on 21 June 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations, tourist, hotel and restaurant industry and prominent medical specialists in the field of pulmonary diseases. The bill and its motives were presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the regulatory changes under discussion aim to limit unauthorised smoking in closed public areas by introducing clear rules on sites which, exceptionally, will be able to equip separate smoking premises. These sites will be subject to additional control by proposing a drastic increase in the penalties provided for in the Law. The provisions relating to the existing exceptions to the ban on smoking in sports sites, summer cinemas and theaters are reviewed, proposing the introduction of an absolute ban on smoking in these open-air public places. Mr. Simeonov clarified that the existing provision of art. 56a, t. 4 of the Health Act creates prerequisites for non-compliance with the smoking ban in these sites in the conduct of commercial events, exhibitions, private events and others, as these events are not sporting and cultural in nature, and therefore do not fall within the circle of objects subject to control. The Law proposes to add vessels and parts, but not more than 50 percent of the commercial area of certain types of dining and entertainment establishments, to the closed public spaces where smoking is exceptionally permitted. Owners are intended to assess on their own whether the smoking ban in these sites should be without exceptions or to equip separate smoking premises. The proposed regulatory changes introduce strict requirements for the equipment of the premises where smoking will be allowed, and the conditions and procedure for admission of exceptions will be laid down in the ordinance under art. 56, para. 6 of the Health Act. The guiding principle in setting up smoking rooms would be not to violate the rights of citizens who do not wish to be exposed to tobacco smoke when visiting food and entertainment establishments. In conclusion, Mr. Simeonov explained that in order to strengthen administrative control, stricter administrative criminal provisions are also introduced in breach of the requirements of the Law, proposing a double increase in the amount of sanctions in cases of detected violations of the smoking ban. The Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov pointed out that the protection and improvement of the health of the nation is a top priority of the Ministry of Health, which has found an expression in the adoption of art. Art. 56 and art. 56a of the Health Act in 2012. These provisions regulate a ban on smoking in closed and open public places, the main purpose of the smoking ban introduced is to protect public health. This ban, on the one hand, protects the health of non-smoking persons who are subject to the effects of tobacco smoke in closed and open public places and, on the other, protects the smokers themselves from excessive use of tobacco and tobacco products. Dr. Penkov added that an important aspect of the introduction of the ban on smoking indoors and some open public places is the protection of the health of workers in their workplaces, including in restaurants and entertainment, which, unlike visitors, are subjected to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke at least 8 hours a day. The Ministry of Health considers that the introduction of a partial smoking ban by regulating certain smoking and non-smoking areas will not contribute to the protection of the health of the population. There is convincing scientific and other evidence that the air purification methods are ineffective methods to protect against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. The World Health Organisation and the International Cancer Research Agency classify tobacco smoke as carcinogenic to human hazard category 1A where there is no safe minimum exposure level. Due to the arguments put forward, the Ministry of Health does not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Act. The written opinions of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Tourism indicate that the objectives pursued by the Draft, the expected impacts on economic entities and the health of citizens should be highlighted in a detailed analysis with regard to negative and positive impacts, and a broad public discussion should be held on the subject. In recent years Bulgaria has successfully imposed itself as a preferred tourist destination, which is becoming increasingly recognizable with its products and quality, while maintaining a high level and improving the conditions for development of tourism activity is directly dependent on the legislative changes concerning these activities. The sporadic launch of the idea of partial liberalisation of the smoking regime does not have a positive impact on the business environment and does not lead to the necessary predictability in the investment climate in the field of tourism. The representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union, the National Association for the Prevention of Lung Diseases, the Bulgarian Society for Lung Diseases, the National Network for Children and the Coalition expressed a negative opinion on the proposed legal changes. The Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association Mr. Atanas Dimitrov informed the MPs that he supports the reasons and objectives of the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Act. He clarified that the introduction of clear criteria and requirements for the premises where smoking will be exceptionally permitted will ensure compliance with the rights of citizens who do not wish to be exposed to tobacco smoke while creating a normal and predictable business environment for businesses. During the discussion, the members of the Health Commission agreed on the need to take consistent measures to protect citizens' health from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. Some of the MPs stressed that non-compliance with the smoking ban introduced in 2012 in a number of food and entertainment establishments could not be a valid motive for a change in the Law, but rather the conclusion that control should be significantly improved by the competent authorities. It was pointed out that the Ministry of Health together with the Ministry of Education and Science should actively cooperate in the preparation and implementation of programmes and information campaigns for the harm caused by smoking among the growing generation. In support of the bill, it was pointed out that the legislative changes proposed strengthening the control of compliance with the smoking ban and a double increase in sanctions in breach of the provisions of the Law, with support for this proposal being expressed in a number of the opinions received by the Committee on Health. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken by 4 votes in favour, 12 votes in favour and without abstentions, the Committee on Health suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u33	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Next is the Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, which will be presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u34	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Hristian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. At its regular meeting on 27 June 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. The bill provides for the ban on smoking in closed public spaces to be removed for certain sites by introducing clear rules for those of them where smoking will exceptionally be allowed in separate private premises. The exemption allowed so far is only for separate private spaces located in airport buildings. It is also intended to add to these sites vessels, as well as not more than 50 percent of the commercial area of the halls for consumption on site in certain types of restaurants and restaurants, drinking facilities, cafes, cafe clubs, bars and discos, except for internet cafe clubs, coffee clubs for games, cafes in sports halls and bars-sporting center. The Council of Ministers will lay down by regulation the requirements to be met by separate premises, as well as the conditions for verification and control. It is proposed to prohibit smoking in sports sites, summer cinemas and theaters, whether during sports or cultural events, as is the current restriction. In the event of violations of the smoking ban, the fines and penalty payments provided for in the Law are doubled. Written opinions on the bill in support of this ban on smoking in closed and some open public places to be preserved have been received by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the National Network for Children, the Coalition "Life without tobacco smoke" and the Civic Initiative "Bulgaria without smoke" and others. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 2 votes.......................................................... and 13 votes................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Hristian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Will there be an importer's opinion? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, to present the bill you submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill presented to your attention aims to limit unregulated smoking in closed public areas by introducing clear rules for sites which will exceptionally be able to equip separate smoking rooms. These sites will be subject to additional control, with a drastic increase in the penalties provided for in the Law for offenders. The ban on smoking in closed public places laid down in the Law is complemented by an absolute ban on smoking in sports sites, summer cinemas and theaters. The envisaged now exception under art. 56a, t. 4 of the Law led to circumvention of the smoking ban in these sites during commercial events, exhibitions, private events and the like. Such events shall be declared as non-sporting and cultural events and shall therefore not be included in the control objects. In order to respect the spirit of the Law, we propose to eliminate these exceptions from the ban on smoking in sports sites, summer cinemas and theaters. On the other hand, vessels and parts, but not more than 50 percent of the commercial area of certain types of food and entertainment establishments, are added to the sites where smoking is exceptionally permitted in separate separate premises. Owners should decide on their own whether the smoking ban in these sites will be without exception or whether the establishment will be available to all customers. In the event of assessing the need for an exemption for smokers customers, this restriction should not affect other visitors. Stricter rules are introduced for the equipment of the premises where smoking will be allowed and the terms and conditions for admission of exceptions will be laid down in a regulation of the Council of Ministers. The guiding principle of setting up smoking rooms will be not to affect the rights of persons who want to be customers of the site but do not want to feel the influence of tobacco smoke. The bill proposes strengthening control and increasing sanctions in the event of detected violations of the smoking ban, and the logic in this case is precisely this partial liberalisation proposed by the Bill. I will also draw your attention to some of the opinions made on this bill, especially with regard to § 2 and § 3, namely the absolute ban on smoking in summer cinemas, theatres and sports sites, and with regard to this ban, we have expressed support from the Ministry of Health, which states the following: The proposal could be supported because in the conduct of other acts of mass nature related to the simultaneous stay of many people in these places, like a sports or cultural event, it is necessary to protect the health of non-smoking people who are subject to the influence of tobacco smoke. It should also be borne in mind that these are public places which are largely visited by young people and their parents, and it is cultural and sports facilities that should be the areas in which adolescents, young people and adolescents should be free of tobacco smoke. We have a similar opinion from the Bulgarian Medical Union, in which they also believe that such a proposal is reasonable and should be supported. Also regarding the increase of sanctions in art. 218 of the Bill The Bulgarian Medical Union expresses its support for the proposed proposal, inasmuch as providing for a higher amount of penalties would have a deterrent effect and would lead to a reduction in smoking. A similar position is expressed in the opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union as well as in the opinion expressed by the Federation of Trade Unions in Health and Health of the CNS. I believe that, in this part, the part with increasing the ban on smoking in open-air sites, as well as double the amount of sanctions, the bill should receive its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here's your first speech, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u38	My fellow Members, I address you all with a few words about why we should support the bill? I'll run a brief analysis right now. With this law, we want to make sure that we protect the non-smoking people who are passive smokers, the people who do not want to, but are forced to tolerate smokers in establishments. We all know that at this point the law is not respected. There's not enough personnel potential to control the establishments. Who will be harmed if this law is not passed? All those who visit the restaurants will be harmed, and after a certain time they start smoking next to them. What are we doing with the Law? Firstly, an increase in revenue, because we are looking for dramatically increased, double and more sanctions for places where the Law is not respected. Secondly, we want to expand the scope of the areas where smoking will be banned. What's wrong? Is it bad to expand the range of places where you shouldn't smoke? Is it bad if we dramatically increase sanctions against those who do not comply with the Law? What do we suggest? In the already separate sites where certain restaurants have invested and where there is air conditioning, only there and only there to do smoking. What's wrong with that? Not bad for the budget, not bad for all of us who don't smoke. This law is for those who want to follow the law, for those who do not smoke. After all, and for the budget, because with the dramatically increased sanctions, first, there will be a serious disciplinary effect on one, and second, a serious increase in revenue. So I invite all of you to support the Bill, or at least in the part about extending the scope to non-smoking sites and the part about a drastic increase in sanctions where this ban is violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Are there any lines to Mr. Kolev's statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think the proposed draft amending and supplementing the Health Act, which we are looking at today at first reading, is, to put it mildly, a blow to everything that has been achieved so far to protect the health of the nation from smoking. The Committee on Health at the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health and a number of other associations are responsible or defending the thesis of the World Health Organization for the earliest prevention against smoking at the very moment when the role among adolescents starts to go through the conscious actions of smokers and comes to passive smokers, including the health of staff in the establishments for which smoking liberalisation is offered. This ban has been achieved with much work and time. Remember only about the inscriptions on the cigarette boxes: The smoking kills and the classification of tobacco smoke in the category of man's danger 1A and where there is no safe minimum level of exposure under the action of over 4,000 types of chemical ingredients in tobacco smoke. But that's one side of the question. On the other side are the business interests of people who want to earn at the expense of the health of others. We have entered the Commission into an ongoing dispute with Mr. Valeri Simeonov "Why do Bulgarians go to Serbia to rest?" And if this is the example, then tourists go for holidays, adventures and new impressions, excellent food and very good service, but they do not go for that they will be able to smoke in their restaurants. The possibility of smoking is accompanying, but is not the main reason that the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism probably also had in mind in its vote and also did not support the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement. We, as MPs, smokers or not, must make today an important and correct decision in the interests of protecting the health of Bulgarian citizens... the smoking ban in closed and some open public places to be preserved.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u41	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u42	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! In my opinion, we should consider, in at least three aspects, the bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. One in which I dare not take attitude, but it is quite important, is the health aspect of which the doctor has previously spoken to me about, that smoking has an extremely harmful effect on the health of the smoker, on the persons around him, on the fruit that is notoriously known. I can't deal with it. An attitude can be taken on the next aspect of the bill. The employer, because there is no doubt the issue has economic dimensions. The ban was introduced six years ago and the business activity has all the establishments from this time until now built up in the light of the smoking ban. There are no such separate premises as are currently available. Whether and how the proposal of the business operators will affect has only hypotheses and conjectures, but no in-depth analysis of the reasons. That would certainly have affected us. The third aspect in which I will take the attitude of the legal one must also not be overlooked. How do colleagues reach the formulated exception in para. 3? How are these objects selected, and what does the exception they provide lead to? It leads de facto to devaluation and practical elimination of the smoking ban, because such a detailed and comprehensive listing of objects makes the exception so great that the principle becomes an exception. But more importantly, how are these objects formulated, how are they taken out, how are the exceptions formulated? Because you'll see that in parentheses there are listed several objects that are an exception. How do you suggest this thing, how are these types of objects selected? There are no motives in the proposal either. Something extremely important that we need to pay attention to. Our bill proposes that the conditions for verification and control be determined by the Council of Ministers in a regulation. There is no way that administrative control can be regulated by a regulation. However, if this text is adopted, administrative control will stop until such time as an act which may not be adopted is adopted. Maybe that's what you're after.! Increasing the sanctions we want to talk about. In the provision of art. 218, which regulates the amount of sanctions and the type of fines and property penalties, is proposed to increase nearly twice. For me, this proposal, first of all, is unmotivated and, second of all, populist. Why is it unmotivated? Because in order to increase the amount of a fine, it must be demonstrated that the amount so far is ineffective, and that is when the fine is effectively imposed and has not achieved its preventive function. The same intruders continued to commit violations. There is no such argument in the motives. Why is it populist? Because not twice, ten times to increase the fine, it doesn't make sense when you predict an exception that almost anywhere will be able to smoke again. Finally, something that I think should be addressed by now. Inexplicable to me is the motive of the legislative initiative, which has already become typical, namely, the ban is not widely respected and because the rule laid down in law is not respected, it is proposed that the rule be dismissed or amended. The question is not raised: why is the rule not widely observed and does the controlling entity have the sufficient resource, financial capacity to implement the smoking ban in practice and effectively? I therefore believe that we should strengthen and support the control functions of the state authorities in relation to the promotion of quitting smoking, non-start smoking, effective application of the ban, not that you have not yet mastered resources and the norm is not applied, to cancel it. On the basis of these arguments, there is no way to support the bill amending the Health Act. I believe that the smoking ban must remain in this form, which is complete everywhere, except for airports where the public interest in the fact that citizens do not have freedom of movement, given the security, is permitted as an exception to smoking. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria) (Applause from Bravo!) Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to Mr. Milkov's statement. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u44	Dear colleagues, I take the floor as a former smoker. I'll be brief. We all know there's a smoke going on here in parliament. There's no parliamentary group in whose room and room you can't smoke. Right now, what we're doing is proving this isn't happening. We're practically breaking the law. What we are proposing is to regulate the old situation, which is before that, i.e. to divide things up.................... and non-smoking. We are the living example of how not only the law is not respected, but what is more, we show clear disrespect for the law. And what's more, we hypocritically debate here and argue things that we practically do. Colleagues, let us be real, and therefore I ask you to vote for the NFSB bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u45	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements on this bill? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 854-01-38, submitted by Christian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. They voted 139 MPs: 25, against 69, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF SAUDITA ARABIA FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE TWO-BASED TAXATION WITH REGARD TO THE DANCES ON THE DELIVERIES AND THE PREVENTATION OF DANISHING. We begin with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion, No 802-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion, No 802-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. The development of bilateral economic relations between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Republic of Bulgaria could be said to be not yet sufficient. Action is needed in this direction, as there are areas with prospects for development, such as energy, agriculture, construction, where the Republic of Bulgaria can have an active participation. There are good opportunities for strengthening and stimulating bilateral economic cooperation between the two countries. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia represents a promising partner for the trade and economic activity of Bulgaria as a new market for investment of free capital. The investment interest and the creation of favourable conditions for cooperation between the two countries determine the need to provide tax-free treatment of income and profits to their locals, which will stimulate them to operate in the other country in different priority sectors. This implies the existence of an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation, which is an important element of the interstate contractual base. The agreement will lead to stimulating economic and investment activity between Bulgaria and Saudi Arabia, which is in the interests of both countries. The National Assembly ratified by law international treaties concerning the operation of the Law or require legislative measures for their implementation on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as is the present case. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the draft budget and finance committee, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion, No 802-02-17, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion, No 802-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2018. At a regular meeting held on 11 July 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers, which is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons under the bill were presented by Rositsa Velkova s Deputy Minister of Finance as follows: On 29 November 2017, Riyadh signed an Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is the largest Arab country in Asia and the most oil-rich country in the world, but bilateral economic relations with the Republic of Bulgaria have not been sufficiently developed. Action is needed in this direction, as there are areas with prospects for development, such as energy, agriculture, construction (building of irrigation facilities, roads, railways), where the Republic of Bulgaria can have active participation. There are good prospects for strengthening and stimulating bilateral economic cooperation between the two countries. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia represents a promising partner for the trade and economic activity of Bulgaria as a new market for investment of free capital. The future investment interest and the creation of favourable conditions for cooperation between the two countries determine the need to provide tax-free treatment of the income and profits of their locals, which will stimulate them to operate in the other country in different priority sectors. This implies the existence of an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation, which is an important element of the interstate contractual base. The agreement will lead to stimulating economic and investment activity between Bulgaria and Saudi Arabia, which is in the interests of both countries. After its entry into force, the signed agreement will be an effective instrument for regulating all problems between Bulgaria and Saudi Arabia in the field of international double taxation in a most favourable and mutually beneficial way. It will contribute to promoting and strengthening economic and any other cooperation between the two countries in mutual interest. After hearing the reasons for the draft Law, a discussion and a vote was held, which resulted in 11 votes for the resolution of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u49	Thank you, Dr. Grozdanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting at first reading the bill that has just been presented to you. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose today that we vote on the relevant agreement at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u51	We are voting on the procedural proposal to pass the bill at second reading. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Please read the text of the ratification bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u52	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion, signed on 29 November 2017 in Riad.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u53	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the just-read text of the ratification bill. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal is accepted, which concludes the work on this point. Then we will take half an hour off, and then we will continue our work on the next item on the agenda. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u54	Colleagues, we continue with the next item on our agenda: ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON THE REGULATION OF COMMUNICATIONS 2017 On the market of postal services, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Report? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u55	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll allow me, it's a security clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Dimitar Genovski to be admitted to the Chamber. Deputy Minister of Transport and Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u56	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. Please invite the guests to the hall. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Revoting procedure. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u57	In connection with exchanged cards between me and colleague Dragomir Stoynev, I ask for a revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u58	Revoting procedure. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, to read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u59	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 "Analyse on the postal services market', No 820-00-16, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission On 25 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation At its regular meeting on 4 July 2018, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017. supplied by the Communications Regulation Commission on 25 June 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Deyan Duneshki, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Posts, Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Irina Romanska, Member of the Communications Regulation Commission, as well as experts from the Commission. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 "Analysis on the postal services market" was presented to the Commissioners by Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov. In the Report drawn up on the basis of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act, an analysis was made of the provision of universal and non-universal postal services in the country. It also contains information about the state of competition in the postal market. The provision of universal postal services within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and services covered by the universal postal service as well as the provision of the service, which does not fall within the scope of the universal postal service, are carried out on the basis of individual licences issued by the Communications Regulation Commission. According to the data referred to in the Annual Report, at the end of 2017, the number of postal market participants was 169, representing an increase of 6% compared to the previous year. At the presentation of the Report Mr. Zhelyazkov stressed that the volume of the market, measured by the indicator revenues from the provision of postal services, is increasing annually. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the case at hand, it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which represents an increase of 8% compared to the previous year. In absolute value, the increase in revenue from the universal postal service and services covered by the universal postal service in 2017 compared to 2016 was 16% and the revenue from the provision of the non-ubiquitous postal service and postal transfers was 6%. The report noted that in 2017 the volume of the postal services market, measured by the indicator number of services rendered, amounted to 193 million. the number and increases by 5% compared to the previous year. Both in the previous two years and in 2017 the market share of the historical operator "Bulgarian Post Office" continued to decrease, reaching 13% of the total market, calculated on the basis of revenues from all postal services. The decrease in the market share of the Bulgarian Post Office is due to the advance growth in the revenues of all other operators, amounting to 9% compared to 2016, mostly in the segment of the non-ubiquitous postal service. As of 31 December 2017, 157 postal operators who announced their intention to provide the non-ubiquitous postal service were actually providing the non-ubiquitous postal service and 92 operators did not declare data and/or indicated that they did not operate during the reporting period. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. BGN, compared to 2016 grew by about 6%. For the same period, the total number of consignments processed was 137 million. the number and shall be maintained almost unchanged as compared to 2016. Mr. Zhelyazkov pointed out to the members of the Commission that in 2017 the rate of increase in revenue from the non-ubiquitous postal service was slowed compared to previous years. The main reason for this is the change in the scope of the market of the non-ubiquitous postal service, in which the last year included courier services up to 31.5 kg and not up to 35 kg, which was the practice of the previous years. Another reason that has been pointed out is the reduction of the share of courier shipments abroad at the expense of shipments to the country, which are lower prices. The report states that in 2017 the revenue from courier services amounted to 307 million. BGN, growing by 9% in a one-year period. The revenue from courier services is formed mainly by shipments to the country, as the main driver for the development of these services is shopping online. According to the data provided by 70% of postal operators performing a non-universal postal service, in 2017, revenues from delivery of consignments generated by e-commerce accounted for 39% of the total revenue from courier services. The total number of couriers received, carried over and delivered is 61 million. the number, which is an increase of 28% compared to 2016. According to the aggregated data in the Communications Regulation Commission as of 31 December 2017, a total of around 13.6 million were provided. the number of postal transfers and the reported revenues of them are around 11.5 million. lv. "Bulgarian Posts" EAD reports about 1.3 million. the number of postal transfers of which revenue of 3,8 million has been made. lv. In 2017, compared to 2016, the operator reported a decrease of around 11% in the reported volumes and revenues of postal transfers, although it has the largest postal network in the country. In 2017, revenues from services covered by the universal postal service amounted to around 89 million. lv. and rose from 2016 to around 16%. The number of delivered shipments and services from the universal postal service total for the country and abroad is about 42 million, with the increase compared to the previous year being about 12%. The increase in revenues is mainly due to the growth of parcel delivery, which have relatively higher prices than the prices of postal consignments. Both in the previous 2015 and 2016 and in 2017 the main competitors in the market segment of the services covered by the universal postal service are two users of the universal postal service. Although the provision of the universal postal service throughout the country has been entrusted to the Bulgarian Post Office under the Postal Services Act, the market position of the historical operator of this market segment is significantly weakening, reaching 47% in 2017, which represents a drop of 6 percentage points compared to 2016. In the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 "Analysis on the postal services market" also contains an assessment of the existence of an unfair financial burden from the performance of the universal postal service and the preparation of a proposal for the amount of compensation. The universal postal service is a service of general economic interest. It is provided by the Bulgarian Post Office on the basis of the obligation imposed by § 70 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Postal Services Act. For this reason, in art. 29 of the Postal Services Act provides that the Bulgarian Post Office will receive compensation from the state budget when the obligation to provide the universal postal service leads to net costs and constitutes an unfair financial burden for the operator. In comparison with 2016, the amount of compensation requested for 2017 should increase. According to the management of the Bulgarian Post Office, this is due to the increased amount of net costs, as well as the costs of maintaining the network and increased staff costs. The Report states that in 2017 the Commission's staff for Communications Regulation carried out 146 checks, of which 42 complaints related to complaints received, with the majority of complaints concerning unsupplied postal consignments or consignments with problems in delivery; a check of the supplied by the operator on the actions undertaken by the operator to improve the quality of the service; 69 complex checks of postal operators carrying out non-universal postal service; 19 checks of postal operators which have not submitted to the Communications Regulation Commission a report on their activity in 2016. In 2017, a total of 14 acts were drawn up to establish an administrative infringement in the field of postal services, of which six in relation to complaints/signatures received in the Communications Regulation Commission "five" for failure to comply with art. 105, para. 1 of the AWD, one for violation of Decree No 6 on the requirements for postal security and two for violation of Art. 105b of the Postal Services Act. In ten cases administrative criminal liability has been committed and criminal decrees have been issued. During the discussion took part the MPs Ivan Valkov and Nikolay Tishev. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council and 6 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Commission's annual report on regulation of the 2017 Communications "Search market analysis" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 shall be adopted. "Analyse on the postal services market. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Will we have an importer's opinion? No, we won't. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! I will refer to the CRC report on the analysis of the postal services market, and I will draw your attention to an extremely worrying fact. The market share of the Bulgarian Post Office, i.e. the state operator, is declining for the third consecutive year. 2015 is 17%, 2016 is now 14%, and last year it is only 13%. Separately last year will most likely remain in the history of the postal market, as for the first time a private postal operator has a greater market share in the universal postal service category than the public operator. Only these two facts should tell you that apparently "Bulgarian Posts" EAD is collapsing. And in this report that has been presented to us, there is not a single sentence about who is responsible. There is not a single sentence that the Ministry of Transport has such a portfolio of Communications, there is a deputy minister who, by the way, comes from the system of the Bulgarian Post Offices and whose responsibility is, come on, one of its responsibilities, to assist the Company to get out of the bataka in which it is located. And I'll continue with the report. It is entitled "Analysis on the postal services market in Bulgaria." We all know that an analysis suggests findings, conclusions and recommendations. Yes, there are enough findings and conclusions in this document, but there are no recommendations, and that is precisely to the Bulgarian Post Office, about how to get them out of the difficult state they are in. Naturally, the Commission said that there are more than 150 operators on the postal market in Bulgaria and CRC can not concentrate only on giving recommendations to one operator, he and the state. However, the truth is that private operators in this market are doing well enough without the Commission's recommendations. They, first, increase their market share, second, increase their revenues... for last year by more than 9%. In other words, they do not need recommendations from the CRC. "Bulgarian Post Offices" are those who need help, they need recommendations because they lose market share, and they have insufficient increase if we can talk about an increase, as it is below 1%, of revenues. And keep in mind, it is not true that no recommendations can be made. I will now quote you what the Report says, one sentence: The Post Office network of the Bulgarian Post Office has not been restructuring since the beginning of the liberalisation of the postal market, which leads to high costs. A comprehensive concept of optimization of the postal network should be developed and adopted. Find out: post offices in small towns and villages should be closed as the provision of universal postal service does not necessarily imply the presence of a fixed post office. And the Bulgarian Post Offices can use, of course, alternative forms of service to the population, such as mobile stations and so on, as their competitors do. In other words, recommendations can be made in this report, but unfortunately, apart from the above or above, there are no other recommendations to the Bulgarian Post Office. Therefore, we at BSP believe that, in this form, this document, a report, or as they have called it, is incomplete and should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Any lines to Mr. Tishev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, my colleagues and I will support this report by CRC Yes, my colleague Tishev is right with what he said, but in fact today with the requests of our leaders and their declarations for the new political season, we all declared ourselves a state-owned attitude and actually restore trust in the institutions. "Bulgarian Post Office" is an institution. What's different? What we read in the report... Yes, the report is incomplete, but we have to admit that the Bulgarian Post Offices are disadvantaged because they are the bearer of the universal postal service and is right Mr. Tishev that this recommendation, which is quoted inside, means to cut at least half the post offices or the so-called points that exist in the country. And a simple review will show that in fact these nearly 3,000 points, which have the Bulgarian Post Office, are where there may be five people in one place, but mail and employee there are. Of course, it brings losses. Losses that the other operators don't have and can't have. Large operators have almost as many points, but we know where they are in the center of big cities, of economically developed centres and they do not generate these losses there. There were ideas to find a solution for the Bulgarian Post Office to be supported as an institution to change its obligations or state institutions and others to use their services in order not to reduce this market share. Here, I think, is the debate: can we actually close down the Bulgarian Post Office as the winner of the universal postal service? And we're talking about that we don't want to depopulate our settlements that are remote, the small ones. We know that somewhere the only government office or employee is the post office. Can we close them or can't we? This is the first topic of the debate. If we can't, what do we do to restructure, say so? Yes, after the entry of the liberalisation of the market began to lose. Perhaps before that this case with the Bulgarian Post Office should have been resolved, to find the place of the state operator and then to liberalize the market, as happened in BDZ. That's the case, that's where they go and, how do I say, injustices. It is not the problem in the Report, the problem is the lack of state relations with the Bulgarian Post Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. [[Voice on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I hear disapproving voices, it is probably not important to discuss the issue of the Bulgarian Post Office, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u66	They're glad to see you, Mr. Gokov, they're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u67	This is another question whether they are happy with me or just not interested in the Bulgarian post office. But you should know that many years have been the embodiment of statehood, of the state in Bulgaria, and they are an institution that has imposed itself as something good in Bulgaria, although in recent years the Bulgarian Post Offices have been left, as they say, I will use a word of self-service. The state doesn't care what happens to the Bulgarian Post Office. The state of the Bulgarian Post Office is the embodiment of the state's attitude to state ownership, the typical attitude of the state under the management of GERB to state ownership, so........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[GERB lines.]] The problems in the Bulgarian Post Office are systematic and are not limited only in the clearing centre, where at the end of last month there was a strike, was even a hunger strike of employees who protested against a number of things, such as low wages, poor working conditions and so on. Today we are adopting a Report, which is called the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 and is called the Annual Report of the Postal Services Market. There must be a lot of technical data in Analysis, and I looked at it very carefully. There must be answers to many questions, but there are no answers to the basic questions. For example: why is there now a market share of 13% of the services and in the traditional for the Bulgarian Post Offices with 47% share lost positions and gave way to a private operator. A very serious question has now been raised here by colleague Letifov whether to close down or not to close down the Bulgarian Post Offices. I think it is unacceptable at all because we cannot talk at all about the closure of the Bulgarian Post Offices, at least for the fact that there are settlements that no one will want and cannot serve. And the state may need to change its attitude towards the Bulgarian Post Office by not only supporting them by subsidizing them for the work they are doing, but also trying to manage them better so that they can take their rightful share. I will repeat again that the situation of the Bulgarian Post Office is a direct embodiment of the attitude of the government to state property. It probably won't sound like it or maybe it will sound like it, but I will do it with our vision for Bulgaria and the government of state companies, which we think should otherwise be managed by the state and enable them to become profitable companies. This report I will not support. I suppose that the group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support this report, as it has a lot of technical data, perhaps there are analyses, but there are no conclusions. And I disagree here with my colleague Tishev that there are some conclusions in the Report. And most importantly, it does not contain a vision for the development of this state-owned company. It does not contain a vision of how to improve the state of this state company. And perhaps the state should consider assistance, not just financial subsidies, but other things to get the Society back on its feet and put it back where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Valkov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, I am amazed at what you said not to say a stronger word than your incompetent statement. You haven't read the report at all! This is not at all about the Bulgarian Post Office (Bulgarian Post Office) only in the Report, but about the analysis of postal services. Postal services are carried out in our country by several dozen companies. And if someone is to blame for the situation of the Bulgarian Post Office, it is nice to return to a year when the liberalisation of the market was made and what Mr. Letifov said as a basis, which is enshrined in the genesis of what is happening today. All costs and all burdens on the Bulgarian Post Office are given, and with this share that other companies are currently receiving, they can operate on the market and the conditions under which they participate in all orders are quite different. The restrictions on the Bulgarian Post Offices are laid down in the Postal Services Act, which entered into force before 2009, when this liberalisation of the market was made. And to say that the state does not have a state-owned attitude towards these companies, I think that this is not the right thing, and right here is where we have to say that such things cannot be said about the management of state-owned companies. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Second line, Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u71	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I really resented Mr. Gokov's statement, so I decided to take the floor. In fact, 2007 - 2008, if memory serves, the total profit of the Bulgarian Post Office was 13 million. lv. They are making liberalisation of the market, which is correct, only without preparing the Bulgarian Post Offices for this liberalisation, they only introduce it legally. The universal postal service, which is regulated, of course, by the Communications Regulation Commission and the Bulgarian Post Office, in any public procurement and wants to participate, cannot participate because we have specific parameters that are asked by the Communications Regulation Commission. At some point she loses all the orders and suddenly start pouring, of course, into the created competing companies. Realistically, that's where the whole genesis of the Bulgarian post office starts. In the Forty-first National Assembly, I raised this issue, even put in place a bill to give a minority share so that the Bulgarian Post Offices could be restructuring. There's been a lot of fuss and we've come this far. In fact, we'll go even further. In my speeches, I was motivated by why this proposal is and where it will all go, perhaps it has already been forgotten, but, in real terms, the Bulgarian Post Offices in this state, not their restructuring, will lead to their closure, unfortunately. So I just wanted to say that it's all in the genies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valkov, it is good that you accuse me of incompetence. Of course, I'm in pain for the Bulgarian Post Offices, and for the other companies there is someone who is hurting them, those who are shareholders and owners of these companies, they are private. I am here on behalf of the Bulgarian people, of the people who have chosen us here, and to defend the interests of the state. [[(Arrival in GERB. Screams: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Well, I don't know where you're from, Mr. Valkov! I don't know you because here I didn't hear you defend something in the Bulgarian Post Office, but some other things you say. Liberalization of the labour market. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u74	Quiet, please, colleagues! Guys, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u75	The liberalisation of the labour market [[speaking indistinctly]] "Yes, in 2009, [[speaking indistinctly]] Yeah, the work, there's no way it couldn't have been liberalized. [[Laughter]] I'm sorry, the postal service market at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u76	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u77	There was no way not to liberalize this market, although I wish that no one would be liberalized but government regulated, but that is another matter. Mr. Nikolov, you are outraged by my speech, but you have the amazing ability to always transfer to those who are back in time who have ruled before you. Yes, they must have released the liberalisation without preparing the market without preparing the Bulgarian Post Office for this, but you 10 years you manage, gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You've been ruling for ten years! Fix these things! So the other state-owned companies also work on liberalised markets and some of them are well managed and reported profits and some of them do not! I'll probably repeat myself, but if I have to say it 10 times because you don't admit it, but for the last 29 years you've been ruling the last 10! For the last 29 years, you've ruled the last ten! So you can't blame 2009, 2008, 2007. Then people, what they should have done, did. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] And the Triple Coalition, no matter how much of a pain in the ass, she worked very well and a number of things were good for her. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u78	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u79	If you believe that the Bulgarian Post Offices were not prepared for the liberalized postal market, you should have adapted them during this time to start working like people and earn. Not to voice outrage that someone disagrees with your analysis and findings. So much for me. The Bulgarian Post Office will not go well while you are in charge. [[Laughter at GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in the distant 1879 liberated Bulgaria created a Bulgarian post office with one main function................................................................................................. No coincidence in these years in our country, and in the least populated place, were built post offices and still about 10,000 people work in the system of the Bulgarian Post Office. A company which, in this truly liberalized environment on a liberalised market, can hardly cope with competition because, if the Bulgarian Post Offices had kept their branches only in large cities and were operating with 100 people, the profit would be different. Today really is a huge competition. Without the aid of the state, we should not expect them to do much. I believe that the analysis of postal services is correct and shows the state of service in 2017. In my opinion, two are the things that need to be done. First, the Bulgarian Post Offices cannot exist without the state taking care of them and subsidizing their activities. I see there's a reserve here, although I'm not saying that the money the state is giving is not enough this year. But really maybe the state should increase its subsidy, first. Secondly, if we want to have working state mails, we need to make sure that the state companies, ministries and departments use the services of the Bulgarian Post Office and not seek the more expensive services of the other competitors, not because I am against them, but speaking of statehood, we also need to look at state institutions to treat the people who work in this system. As someone who has a lot to do with postal services, I am pleased that in recent years, despite the problems in the system, wages have been growing slightly. It's about the strike last month. I went on a date with the strikers. The strike wasn't just about wages. People have a reason. There the strike was for recognition of a syndicate which was built in the system of the Bulgarian Post Office, but people were generally pleased that their salaries were increasing and that the state had not given up on them. And the people, wherever I have been in the country, are pleased that there is a Bulgarian post office and that there are people in the country who can be connected with state institutions, with larger cities, especially in small towns. I will support with my voice the Analysis as it is made, and in my opinion correctly done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017. Mr. Letifov introduced you to an analysis of the postal services market. Vote 116 MPs: for 93, against 22, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and the report is adopted. Come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Energy Act by 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, please vote on the procedure so done. Vote 108 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item of today's agenda: ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON THE REGULATION OF COMMUNICATIONS 2017 The report will introduce us to Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017, No 820-00-17, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 25 June 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 4 July 2018, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017, No 820 The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Irina Romanska, Member of the Communications Regulation Commission, experts from the Communications Regulation Commission, representatives of mobile operators and industry organizations in the field of electronic communications. The annual report was presented by Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, provides systematic information on services, markets and competition in the sector in 2017, trends and prospects of development, as well as a review of the regulator's activities. In his exhibition Mr. Zhelyazkov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. According to data from the register of the Communications Regulation Commission as of 31 December 2017, a total of 1103 enterprises have registered their intention to carry out public electronic communications activities and in one year their number dropped by 2.7 percent. In the performance of art. 5 of the General Terms and Conditions for Public Electronic Communications received information from a total of 994 enterprises. In 2017, 842 companies were active, with a decrease in their number compared to the previous year of 1.6%. This reflects on the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria during the year, which amounted to 2,442 billion in 2017. BGN, decreasing by 1,5% compared to 2016 Both in previous years and in 2017 the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria is mainly determined by the revenues from voice services, package services and data transmission services and/or Internet access offered on its own. For the first year, the share of revenues from the provision of package services in the total market volume in 2017 exceeded that of voice telephone services, increasing by 4.7 percentage points compared to 2016 and reaching 36.3% relative market share. Internet access and data transmission also increase and occupy 20% of the total market volume. Mr. Zhelyazkov noted that in 2017. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 912 thousand. lv. in the case of planned 2016 441 million. 419 thousand. lv. These figures show that the investments planned by the undertakings for 2017 were made at 93,8%. In order to increase the effectiveness of electronic communications control activities, 3131 inspection checks were carried out in 2017. It was pointed out that particular attention was paid to compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to the protection of public interest and the interests of end-users. In this regard, Mr. Zhelyazkov stressed that in 2017 a major share of the checks were carried out on the three largest companies providing electronic communications services and are related to the complaints submitted to the Communications Regulation Commission by end users concerning the services offered by them: The President of the Communications Regulation Commission pointed out that among the priorities in the activities of the regulator for 2017 was the effective implementation of Regulation No 531 of 2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union, in accordance with its amendments. The Communications Regulation Commission has published advice on its website for Bulgarian citizens in order to avoid problems in the provision of roaming services at national prices. The timely measures taken have ensured a smooth implementation of the regulation, which has led to an increase in the total consumption of mobile telephone services, and the actual minutes spoken by subscribers of Bulgarian enterprises abroad have increased by more than 3 times. After the presentation of the report a discussion was held. National Representative Ivan Valkov raised the issue of the release of a 700 MHz frequency band for civil purposes. In response Mr. Zhelyazkov noted that effective management and efficient use of radio spectrum is among the constant priorities of CRC. In relation to the provision of conditions for harmonised use of the 700 MHz frequency band (the radio frequency band is 694 "790 MHz"), the so-called second digital dividend, the Commission continued the civil spectrum assessment activities under this scope in 2016. At expert level, the regulator is also actively involved in the work of interdepartmental working groups on this issue. The representatives of the branch organizations expressed the opinion that some of the cable operators did not correctly take into account the number of their subscribers to the Communications Regulation Commission. In this regard, they highlighted the need to take urgent action in order to carry out effective monitoring and control. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council and 6 votes abstention is proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u87	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief so I don't bore my colleagues. With colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will support this CRC report. I only wish to recommend to the CRC because I did not hear if the colleague read in the Report the number of complaints, which are actually in the CRC Annual Report and are set against mobile operators, but they are a large part of the life of Bulgarian society and Bulgarian citizens, and each month they are involved in their existence. Hundreds of complaints about unprovided services, incorrect accounts or paid accounts, non-reflective, lack of internet coverage. I will not quote the specific operators, but I would like to recommend to the CRC to be much more demanding in their relations with mobile operators.. how they provide their services, coverage, are they renewing their networks, the investments that are being made. You know perfectly well what these complaints are about, because this is one of the scourges on Bulgarian citizens. The complaints and signals that reach us are that the service of one part of the operators is not correct. I will not quote their names in order not to get into any conflict, but I believe that we owe this responsibility as an institution as well as the CRC and as a National Assembly for how this service is provided, because there is no person who does not have at least one phone and is not obliged to at least one mobile operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-04.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017, read by Mr. Milushev. They voted 111 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 5 September 2018, Wednesday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from MP Petar Vitanov. 2. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Zhelyo Boychev. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova; and Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Stoyan Mirchev. 4. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. 5. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Nikolay Nankov will answer 15 questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov 6. The Minister of Home Affairs Valentin Radev will answer a question from the MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev and Pencho Milkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva; and to two questions written by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. For lack of respectable reasons of the MP Yordan Mladenov, the answer to his question to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev is postponed. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. For health reasons, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Retirement Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. We've run out of agendas with this. Regular plenary session tomorrow, September 5th, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned.
