ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Program for the work of the National Assembly on 23 May 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer: Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018, adopted on the first vote on 9 May 2018. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. Importer: Council of Ministers on 9 November 2017 3. Parliamentary control at 11:00, including: debates on questions by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities; answers to questions and questions. Please vote on the program so read. They voted 146 MPs: 125, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: A bill to supplement the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Bill for the Bulgarian Car Chamber. Importers: Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Proposal for debates on questions No 854-05-32 of 4 May 2018 by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Preliminary Implementation of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. Importer: Council of Ministers. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. Draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of the mechanized brigade" and of the implementation of the investment cost project "Acquiring of a new type of combat plane." Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Exporters: Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Decision on Debate No 854-05-32 of 4 May 2018 by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. Importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria Krasimir Karakachanov informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military vessel with its statutory arms and crew, soldiers for participation in joint preparation in the composition of the permanent NATO Armed Forces Group from 9 October 2018 to 16 November 2018, including the transition days in the Black Sea region, the Black Sea Strait Zone and the Aegean Sea. Ports will be visited in the Republic of Turkey and the Hellenic Republic, with no provision for transit through territorial waters of non-NATO countries. The notification was received on 18 May 2018. No 803-09-27 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 21 May 2018, the National Assembly received a Report on the state of administration in 2017, adopted by Decision No 337 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 21 May 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 May 2018 to 25 May 2020. No 811-00-2 was submitted to the National Assembly a report on financial management and control and internal audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2017. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. On 9 May 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-12, adopted by the Council of Ministers, which was adopted on the first vote of 9 May 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u3	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the so-read name of the Law, which the Commission supports. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u4	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The pension insurance company shall be obliged to provide, upon request, by a person insured in an additional voluntary pension fund or an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes with contributions from a person under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2 or 3 or an insurance undertaking established under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria within 7 days written information on: 1. the acquisition of rights over the funds of the individual account and the consequences thereof as a result of termination of the relationship with the person referred to in art. 230, para. 3, p. 2 or 3 or with the insurance undertaking; 2. the conditions governing the treatment of the funds of the individual account after the termination of the relationship under point 2. 1 such as, where withdrawal of funds prior to the acquisition of a pension right is permissible, the information shall include a written clause that the insured person should consider the possibility to seek consultation on the application of those pension funds. (3b) The pension insurance company is obliged to provide, upon request, to the heirs of a deceased insured person or pensioner in a supplementary voluntary pension fund or supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes within 7 days written information on their contribution from the individual account of the deceased and the conditions governing the treatment of those funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u5	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting § 1 on a proposal from the Commission, just read by Dr. Ademov. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 4 the word "clear' is deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u7	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 4 the word "clear' is deleted; They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u9	Are there any statements under paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6? I won't. We're going to vote. We vote on the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u10	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u11	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There's no wish to make a statement. We shall vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 7. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u12	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u13	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 8 to be rejected. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u14	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 21 May 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u15	Are there any speeches and considerations regarding the proposal? I won't. We are voting on the last paragraph of this bill, which becomes § 9, in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been passed, with which the entire bill has been passed. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose the time limit for written proposals under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act adopted at the first vote, No 854-01-26, submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2018, to be extended by ten days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u17	A proposal has been made to extend the period between first and second readings. Are there any other suggestions, objections? I won't. We shall vote on the proposal made pursuant to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The period for written proposals between the first and second reading of the Water Act submitted by Emil Hristov and a group of MPs shall be extended by ten days. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move to the second item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MARKS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATION. Importer: Council of Ministers on 9 November 2017 The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will be presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Petar Kanev. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u18	Madam President, I ask for permission in the hall of Mr. Lachezar Borisov, Deputy Minister of Economy, and Elitsa Dilova, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u19	We are voting for admission to the House of Those Persons. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Continue with the report, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u20	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 702-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meetings held on 14 February 2018 and 16 May 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 702-01-44. The meetings were attended by: Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov; Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov; from the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Ophelia Tsonkova Vice-President, and Tsvetislava Lakova Director of the Department of Marks and Geographics. The bill was presented by Lachezar Borisov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to bring the current law into line with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. Under the provisions of the Regulation, Member States are not entitled to grant national protection for geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. In order to obtain protection in the territories of the Member States, designations of origin and geographical indications should be registered only at Union level. From the date of application for such registration at Union level, Member States should be able to grant temporary protection at national level without prejudice to intra-Union trade or international trade. The protection granted in the Regulation after registration should be available to the same extent for designations of origin and geographical indications of third countries which meet the relevant criteria and enjoy protection in their home country. The Bill establishes a new Article 51a which excludes geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 from national registration. With the new version of art. 56 The grounds for termination of protection shall be supplemented. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 57a, which provides for the official registration of a geographical indication or food by the Patent Office where the geographical indication of the agricultural product or food is entered in the European Register of Agricultural Products with protected geographical indications. The bill provides for the immediate termination of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 and the termination of ongoing proceedings in respect of which no decision has been entered into force. The importer does not identify possible risks from the adoption of the Bill. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In its letter to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Zaharieva of 25 January 2018, the European Commission found that, while maintaining national protection of geographical indications and designations of origin covered by Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, Bulgaria had failed to fulfil its obligations under Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 as interpreted by the Court of Justice. By its written opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Draft and informs the National Assembly that it has held a number of meetings at which all concerned users and industry organisations are informed about the application order for listing of names in the European Register of Protected Designations of Origin and Protected Geographical Indications. A notice letter from the European Commission has been received in respect of a infringement procedure No 2017/4062 for non-compliance with Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 requesting the opinion of the Republic of Bulgaria in respect of art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. If not presented, the European Commission may exercise its right to file a claim before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Republic of Bulgaria. In their opinions the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria support the Bill. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry appreciates as unacceptable the proposed changes because they violate another international act signed by the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the Lisbon Agreement on the Protection of Names of Origin and their Registration and proposes amendments to the Bill. Following the debates, the MPs commissioned the Ministry of Economy to carry out further consultations with the European Commission. At the second meeting Deputy Minister Borisov informed the MPs about the actions taken by the Ministry of Economy after the Commission meeting of 14 February 2018. A meeting was held with representatives of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. The European Commission has agreed to move on to a softer version, for which experts from the European Commission have confirmed that if it is adopted, it will be proposed to the College of Commissioners to complete the penal procedure for Bulgaria. It is a question of the Bill providing specific texts which clearly state that no compensation should be awarded to holders of national registered geographical indications in current or future civil proceedings. Deputy Minister Tsvetan Dimitrov supported the proposed additions by the Ministry of Economy. He added that on 17 April 2018, a technical meeting was held between representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the European Commission and the minutes of the meeting were written that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry approved all the actions proposed by the European Commission, but insisted that at some point when the new law was adopted, Bulgarian products should not be left without national protection, although for a certain period of time. In this regard, Dr. Dimitrov proposed adding texts to make it possible to record in the Transitional and Final Provisions that national protection is not available until after the registration files have been submitted in accordance with the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is an assurance from the European Commission that our files will be processed as quickly as possible within the framework of legal possibilities. As long as these files are protected, business is considered to be protected and will not suffer any damage during this period. The National Association of Dairy Processors expressed an opinion that the country's resources should be used in the face of the Agricultural Academy, the University of Food Technology in Plovdiv and the Thracian University in Stara Zagora in order to prepare a single technical documentation for the production of certain products. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the GG of BSP for Bulgaria and expressed their opinion that they will refrain from voting on the bill because the European Commission applies increased requirements to Bulgaria and, at the same time, there is no protection for the quality of the food products imported in Bulgaria. There was confidence that the state authorities are making every effort to resolve the problem for our producers. Following the conclusion of the discussion and voting with results: 10 Members of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. There are no reports from the Committee on Agriculture and Food, as well as from the Committee on Culture and Media. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here's a statement, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u22	Colleagues, I will be very brief because the Law is very important. I don't know what you've learned from the Report, but the truth is, for the first time since I've been in the Economic Commission, we've been sitting on the same report on the same subject. Two thousand and seven years, when we become a member of the European Union, had to automatically have all licences, so-called patents, to say it, to our producers to be automatically translated and presented to the European Commission. From 2007 to 2017, ten years, this is not over. We also received a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through the Council of Ministers that we are entering a criminal procedure. At the first hearing, which was at the beginning of this year, we decided that we could not automatically vote on the proposal of the Council of Ministers and commissioned the two ministers to hold appropriate consultations. I think what we are going to vote on right now is likely to go through at first reading, does not solve the problems of manufacturers. In the subsequent consultations held by the Ministry of Economy, the problems of the state were largely resolved, but again the problems of the producers were not solved. The second consultations held by the Ministry of Agriculture in Brussels, I think they have found a sensible solution. Therefore, most likely, we will propose between first and second readings to have a longer period and if we accept the proposals of the Ministry of Agriculture, I think the needs and wishes of the Bulgarian producers will be met. I am optimistic that with this law we will find a good solution to protect the interests of both the state and the producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u24	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the topic is extremely delicate, but, as always, in the Economic Commission, we have been very responsible and the debate in it was constructive. Yes, two meetings took place to examine this bill. What we have all united around is that it is very important, first, to end the criminal procedure in Bulgaria. What both ministries have done to the economy and to agriculture and food was extremely important for their dialogue with the European Commission and what to do so that there are as few consequences for the Bulgarian producers as possible. We also have the guarantee of the Patent Office that applications for registration of geographical indications for agricultural products or foodstuffs, or requests for the entry of a user of such geographical indication until the entry into force of the Draft Act, have not entered into force and will be terminated. As soon as the Patent Office enters into force, it shall also undertake to notify the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation of the official termination of national registrations of geographical indications on the basis of which international registrations have been made. It is extremely important that we show that we are working on it. We have received mostly support for the bill from industry organizations, as well as from the relevant ministries, and it is therefore very important that we support it. If we now adopt the Bill at first reading, I will also propose that the period between first and second readings be maximum so that all proposals can be tabled. We already have such a request from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as well as the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will use the line just to say that the Law on Trademarks and Geographical Indications has not been allocated and has not been seen in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. It seems to me that this needs to happen between first and second readings, since the National Registration Authority of the European Register for Agricultural Products and the Protection of Geographical Indications is the Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. So it is logical between first and second readings that this bill should also be seen in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, as so far there have been comments that meetings with industry organisations have been held. I think it's in the portfolio of agriculture and food. In the form of the reply procedure, I am making this proposal to distribute the draft between first and second readings to the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u27	There's no such thing as a rule book.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? There aren't any. If there are no lines, perhaps I should clarify that there is still a leading committee and at second reading the bills are dealt with in this committee. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 702-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2017. They voted 126 MPs: 99 against 1 abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u29	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, it is my procedure to look at the bill on trade marks and geographical indications within the maximum period of three weeks before second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u30	You mean as long as possible? Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal made by Mrs. Daniela Saveklieva to extend the period between first and second reading of the bill that has just been adopted at first reading. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting will continue at 11:00 with the debates and parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u31	Hello again, colleagues. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, esteemed teachers and lecturers, honourable scientists and artists, museums, community centers and library actors, dear children and students! Tomorrow, May 24th, these words from the national school anthem of Stoyan Mihajlovski will sound throughout the country. We call this holiday the most Bulgarian and the most real, we recite it and only on this day a whole nation sings as one. On this day, we offer wreaths and praise the work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and clearly declare that it is our great past and present, through which we build our future. We say this every day, and in the months of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we have shown that we are not only part of the European family, but descendants of those who created our writing and it has passed through peace, for all the world's education it was an inexhaustible pool. On this day, we thank and worship the work of our teachers, the many educators and cultural actors, for we know that only people with spiritual power can spread the knowledge that raises the people's genius. For GERB, this is the day when we will remind again that education is a priority in our management program and we continue to defend it. We have reached a consensus that without a new philosophy in education, we cannot move forward. Our primary concern is the teachers, because without them knowledge cannot spread. We heard parents, students, scientists, business, employers, unions what the children of our future should be like and we started changing models and methods of teaching and training for generations that are too different for the new time, which is a time of revolutionary changes. Without retreating from our understanding that Bulgarianity is above all else, we want to learn our heirs that the world has no borders, and the spirit that knows where its roots are is no obstacle to being free. Therefore, every child should be in the classroom and should be entitled to a decent and unattractive choice for his education. We have overcome the challenge with the quality of teaching at universities and we have agreed that the scientist has no place in the audience or in the scientific laboratory, if he is not more than worthy, and is not the best among the best professionals in his field because we know that his work scatters the darkness of lightlessness. Dear colleagues, GERB we do not intend to give in to the status quo, which protects not good practices in the system of education accumulated over time. We often have to remain silent so that we do not create unnecessary public noise when the opposition speaks of chaos and distress. Even now we kept quiet when just days ago the 12 judges of the Constitutional Court unanimously ruled that the Pre-school and School Education Act meets the highest standards and is neither hollow nor causing contradictions, nor there are any handicaps. Because what has been achieved in these months of party, populist attacks? Create embarrassment and service of the status quo. Is that our national understanding? I am sure it is not, and that is why in GERB we find it difficult to accept party games on this topic. We say this today, on the eve of May 24th, because this brightest day in our history is also the day when we must remember the covenant of the holy brothers, it is he to whom Bulgaria remained faithful: In celebration and suffering performed the feats without respect. These aren't just words from the hymn we're singing tomorrow at the celebrations. This is the covenant that holds us as a people and makes us a nation to have. Let us not forget it even when we argue, sin, or fight together for our common future through literacy, knowledge, and science for bright things. Our path is clear and there is no other, for through the booking our fates will be renewed. And let us remember the writing of the Chernorisets Brave: God has given understanding to the Slavs, to whom glory and honor and authority and worship now and always, in the infinite ages. Amen! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u33	On behalf of a parliamentary group, a declaration. Here you go, Mr. Tomov. Mr. Tomov has the floor for a declaration on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u34	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honorable Meeting! I'll talk about our saints and our patrons. Where are so many other glorious tribes and nations? Sank in Letta! And Bulgaria remains! Centuries before Joto, before St. Francis of Assisi, centuries will pass by until Michelangelo, Leonardo and Raphael, Shakespeare and Goethe, Francois Vijon and Hugo, Tolstoy and Thomas Jefferson are born. When London and Paris are sleeping country towns, when the modern world, our world is not even a hunch. Deep in the well, towards the glow that lights us up and doesn't diminish. Because our saints and patrons are the first. Their word is our beginning. They're why we're still here, and we will be! Tomorrow's gonna be the best day of the year! We will send our children with flowers to the squares to celebrate the closest one to our souls, our most unique holiday 24 May, the Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture and the Slavic Literacy, the Day of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius. Nearly twelve centuries ago, after the death of his master, Kliment Ohridski wrote: "I am pouring out your gold-grained eyes, which removes the unreasonable blindness and exalts the prudent light, and I am pouring out upon my people a reasonable cloud, which watered with the dew of God burning from the sinful drought our hearts. Yesterday I spoke with academic Vasil Güzelev. He told me that Bajcho Kolyo before he died before he died. The professor Nikolai Genchev, who, in my opinion, was kissed by God, said that Bulgaria may not be there, would disappear in the coming years. Academic Guzelev called the Bulgarian aristocracy whatever that means, accused her that she did not care and did not protect her people. But there is something, he said, which cannot be destroyed, something smoldering that will not go out, which can once again be ignited, something that will remain called the creating spirit of Bulgaria. When I mentioned to him about academic Likhachev, whom we photographed with the director Zdravko Dragnev three days in the summer of 1989, and he told us that we Bulgarians did not always have an external state, but we always had an internal state, a state of spirit. Güzelev said that this Lichachev took it from a Senseful................. where it literally wrote the following:...Know this, and there are three kings in the world, as is the Holy Trinity of heaven. The first kingdom is Greek, the second kingdom is Bulgarian, the third kingdom is Albanian. With the Greek kingdom is the Father, with the Albanian is the Son, with the Bulgarian kingdom is the Holy Spirit. Cyril, who was born in 826 in Thessaloniki, was probably the smartest man on the planet at the time. In Constantinople, in just three months he studied grammar, then he studied Homer, Tucidide, geometry, Luv and Fotius, dialectics, and all philosophic sciences, rhetoric, arithmetic, astronomy, music, and all other Elinian arts. He graduated from the Magnaur School and was then a librarian of the Patriarchate in the church of St. Sofia. Reminds me of Ibn Haldun, the great Arab thinker. Like him Cyril goes on a mission to the Saracens in Baghdad, participates in other missions, in discussions, and finally retreats into silence at the monastery of Mount Olympus in Asia Minor, where his brother has already retired. Methodius previously ruled the Slavic Princess, was a teacher and first bishop of the Slavs. When they understand the mission for which they are created, the brothers are secluded, I think, for seven years, and they only talk to the books in the monastery. Their age-old work is the Bulgarian alphabet. This graphical system is the first phonetic letter, fully consistent with the characteristics of the language of the tribes in the Bulgarian group. At the heart of the Cyrilo-Metodia Literary Language is the Eastern Bulgarian Solonian dialect. You know, following the Grand Moravian mission, which is a failure the brothers there remain 40 months, three years. All the time, they fight with the German clergy, blaming them for preaching in an unholy language. There's a trilingual dogma then. Only Latin, Hebrew, and Greek are allowed, and Cyril contests brilliantly, let us remember it: Does not it fall from God rain equally for all? Doesn't the sun shine on everyone, too? Aren't we all breathing the same air? How do you not feel ashamed by defining only three languages, but want all other tribes and nations to be blind and deaf? In the Gospel Prophesy, Konstantin writes: "Therefore hear all the Slavs, great wisdom, in a small speech to say: they are naked without books all nations, because without weapons they cannot defeat the enemy of our souls. They are ready for the captivity of torment eternally, and these letters that Christ perceives, wisdom expresses, and your souls strengthen. Boris I Michael is the leader of deep change, with Christ's power and with the cross sign. Bulgaria of Prince Boris I Michael was indeed that country in which Slavonic writing and writing would be able to take root, to give good fruit. Here I ask a personal question: was it possible to fail this Byzantine diplomacy, the Byzantine geopolitics; failure, let's say, to Cyril-Methodieu's case; defeat, an empty place in world history, let's say, the battle that Methodius fought with the German clergy when they blasphemed and beat him with horse guys when they imprisoned him for two and a half years? You know Constantine Philosopher has already died, bequeathed to his brother and his disciples to continue the work here with these words: "Brothers, we were bound together to plow a furrow. After I've finished my life, I fall to the field. You love monasticism very much, but because of it you do not abandon our teachings. Papi, you know, they're changing. The new Pope Stefan V intervenes decisively on the side of the German clergy and with the threat of a curse forbids Mass and sacred services, drives the disciple of Methodius Gorazd, violently from the Archbishop's throne. Clement, Nahum and Angelarius are tortured, chained, imprisoned. They take them out of Velegrad, strip them naked and drive them beyond the borders of the Great Moravia, and even have them sold to the slave market in Venice. If this battle were then lost, if these people were killed, and they were less than the fingers of one hand, perhaps another would be the fate of our country and of our nation. Some of the surviving students of Cyril and Methodius, however, are headed to the Bulgarian lands, and Boris long yearned for such men. And this is where the miracle begins! Academic Anton Donchev even spoke of three miracles. In the capital Pliska Boris in numerous talks with Clement, Naum and Angelarius builds the strategy for a comprehensive church book, educational and organizational activity for creating schools and teaching a church clergy. In just seven years Bulgaria trains more than ten thousand priests, gives in their hands ten thousand Gospels and they start preaching in Bulgarian. Boris sends Clement to Kutmichevitsa, where his students have the best knowledge, are placed for readers, deacons and priests. In every field he has 300 students. Simeon ordains him as the first bishop to preach the Bulgarian language. Clement, you know, simplifies the verb, creates the letters of the Cyrillic. Today he is one of the seven apostles of Bulgaria along with Cyril, Methodius, Nahum, Sava, Gorazd and Angelarius. Our language goes east, and today it's a planetary phenomenon, a few hundred million people write in our letters. Back in 1211. Imagine when, the Bulgarian Church thanked so: To Kirila Philosopher, who translated the Divine Scriptures from Greek to Bulgarian and enlightened the Bulgarian family, the new second apostle, during the reign of Michael and the Orthodox Empress, his mother Theodora, who adorned the Divine Church with holy icons and established Orthodoxy. To his brother Methodius, the Archbishop of Moravia Panonska, as he also worked very hard for the Slavic book of Eternal Memory. To his student Clement and to his other disciples, Sava, Gorazd, and Naum, as they have also worked very hard for the Slavic book. Glory and immortality forever and ever! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u35	Thank you. Declaration on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group. Before that, honourable MPs, to announce that guests of the National Assembly are today our compatriots from the Theatre formation. They are Bulgarians living in Canada. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause.]] Thank you. You have the floor to submit the declaration on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tomorrow is the most real by nature and the most beautiful by its incarnate idea a Bulgarian holiday. May 24th is a celebration of enlightened people who have for centuries built the foundations of the nation and nurtured generations. May 24th has long since become a day symbol of national dignity, aspiration for self-determination, multi-century traditions and human culture, a wonderful celebration of teachers and students, of graduates, of small and large book lovers, of students and academics, of writers, readers and dreamers. It's a day of scientific thought and creativity. A day when we are truly proud, for we have given something to the world. For we have celebrated it for two centuries because we have our alphabet and we have been written people since more than millennia ago. It's a bright day that has the amazing, natural power to unite us all. That's why it's a priceless, spiritual holiday. The two brothers hardly in the 9th century, carrying out their assigned government mission, were conscious of their full agely work. However, they knew that the written word preserved memory and preserved spirituality in time. Eleven centuries later, Europeans are convinced that the brothers Cyril and Methodius really deserved to be declared by Pope John Paul II as patrons of modern multinational, multilingual and civilised Europe. The Bulgarian people and the entire Slavic world tagged their saints, creators of a new alphabet, defenders of human right and freedom to create and glorify God in your native language. Let it be a happy holiday for all of us, a spiritual story about the letters! Let us, by the power of mind and faith, go our way to bright things! Enlightenment as a process may be a kind of journey to the temple and may all of us find enlightenment and sun shining forever in our souls! The spiritual upliftment of personality, the growth of a nation and the transformation of the state into a common homeland pass through language and writing. In the beginning was the Word. It will also be infinite in human time. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we wish your mind to be cozy on May 24th because the holiday is real, the joy is real and does not fade in the years, the child's smile is beautiful and completely natural. In such days, life is not a struggle, it is not a war for power, it is knowledge, ethics, aesthetics and meaning. Happy Thanksgiving, reading people! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. Professor Stanilov for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u38	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and guests! Many things have been said by those who spoke before me. I would like to draw your attention on this bright day to some other historical individuals who are very rarely mentioned and who have great merit for what has happened. I would like to mention the eternal memory of our great statesmen of the First and Second Kingdom, who, throughout the whole rule of Bulgaria constantly, persistently, consistently defended the literature of the Bulgarians! The first one of them called Boris, mentioned here, made sure not only that the verb was introduced, he made sure that the Cyrillic alphabet was created, which was written in the Pliska by St. Kliment Ohridski. There and now it has been studied, dug up and anyone can go to see the huge monastery with the cathedral where this feat was performed, and the remains of the building, where the so-called Application Book was carried out. Under the patronage of Prince Boris, as the source writes, in 893 he completed an application book. This is the translation and copying of the Cyrillic of all worshipbooks that have been previously in Greek, Latin, or Hebrew. After the application of the book, the great King Simeon then moved the capital to Veliki Preslav, where the Preslav School of Literature was built. Very few written sources are reserved for this process, but they are extremely eloquent. Here Vazov is right, when he wrote in his poem about Simeon when he had no one to win, he wrote books to rest. King Simeon and King Peter are the patrons of literature, and it is not for nothing that this same spring says that Simeon filled his palace with books. How many rulers have done this? The great Emperor Charlemagne, whom they call the Uniter of Europe, did not know to read and write. His biographer Einhardt says it was very difficult for him with his rough hands to write the letters, and in the end he never learned. Simeon was writing books, poems. Old Bulgarian literature was created then, of which there are very few secular writings left, but we have one so-called the Miracle of St. George with the Bulgarians, which is a classic medieval story, a very rare work. Our literature, Bulgarian literary language has infiltrated Russia, infiltrated Romania, infiltrated Serbia. All this literature, which they called the Church Slavonic language for a long time, is the old Bulgarian language, this book is the old Bulgarian book and these languages are the Ukrainian language which they now speak, and the Russian language are direct descendants of the old Bulgarian literary language and are even closer than our modern Bulgarian language in this old Bulgarian literary language. The great works of the old Bulgarian writers are preserved in copies in Russia, Romania, Serbia and elsewhere. Only the talk against the new heresy of our writer Presbyter Cosma is written in an extremely polemic high style, which at this time in the other literature there is no! It is preserved in 27 transcripts in Russia, I don't remember how many, but seven-eight were in Serbia and so on. We didn't have a copy saved at home, and it's in other people's transcripts. It's our destiny! In the Second Kingdom, literature rises very high and Bulgaria continues to be first with the Slavic peoples in this literature. Under the patronage of the great King Ivan Alexander are written books, translated, written the Gospel. The personal of the king, which is preserved and now located in the British Library in London. These books are gone with us and we can't have them, but we still value them and worship them! The respect that foreign science has for us is due precisely to these preserved monuments. In the 17th century the great Patriarch Evtimiy, the last defender of the country, the commander-in-chief of the Bulgarian army in the siege of Tarnovo, carried out a linguistic reform that restores the old principles of the literary language and brings it back, it is a conservative reform, verb forms. Hence, our scribes, who emigrate to both Gregory Tsamblak and others along with him, carry on this reform in Russia, in the old Russian language, that is, we have continued to teach these peoples. We have continued to spread the light that has erupted in the first, in the Great Bulgarian Kingdom. And by bowing down to these people today, before their work, I advise all Bulgarians to know a little more about them, because really the people do not disappear, do not go there where the know-it-all live, but where is the knowledge and where is the nationality? Therefore, bow before the bright memory of all these people, of the rulers, of the boyars, of the scribes, of the aristocracy which created an elite culture which we then lost completely and had to restore, starting from the end of the XIX century. It's very unfortunate, but it's a fact, and history cannot be judged. Happy holiday, dear colleagues, and bow before the bright memory of these great Bulgarians! [[Applause from GERB, "BSP for Bulgaria", OP, "Volja", single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u39	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Volja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u40	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! For every Bulgarian 24 May is a holiday, a symbol of writing, knowledge and science, of spirituality and culture. On this holy day we are filled with national pride and honor to the glorious work of the first teachers Saint Cyril and Methodius. We worship their students and followers who continued and preserved the Bulgarian literature and culture. Tomorrow is also a celebration of European values, of the common European future. We are the people who have opened the way of knowledge and writing for the whole of Europe and helped to unite it. We have managed to preserve and preserve through the centuries our literature, spirituality, and self - sacrifice thanks to all those teachers, clergy, and elders who have revived our national self-consciousness. Bow to all teachers, teachers and enlighteners! Admirations for your professionalism, dedication and efforts to preserve the Bulgarian language and education. We thank you for the inspiration and the energy with which you enter the classrooms each day and ignite the flame of knowledge, for the upbringing of our children, for your daily care, not only for their training, but also for their building as individuals. On the day of tomorrow, we also express our gratitude to all the artists of the Chitalishte and library work who care for the preservation of our cultural and historical heritage. To you, dear students and students, I wish you health and wisdom to seal in your hearts the valuable lessons taught by your teachers to preserve and glorify the Bulgarian word and science with your achievements and successes. We also thank the representatives of the academic and scientific elite, to all who dedicate their lives to scientific discoveries, innovations, to young people who work for the development of Bulgaria. We admire the artists of culture and art who care for the spiritual growth and preservation of the people. I want to say to all of you that you are not alone in your cause. We from Volja.We believe that in order for our country to be successful and prosperous and to continue to develop, science, education and culture must be a major priority for Bulgaria. We all need to unite around the idea of preserving the spiritual and cultural wealth and growing our homeland. Dear teachers, teachers and students, dear artists and people of enlightenment, I want to wish you to give your love to the next generation, to be proud of your past and present and to help the bright futures of our science and culture! On behalf of the party, Volya. Happy holiday of Slavic writing, education and culture! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. We are going to ask the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities. At the request of the National Representative Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov was answered at a meeting on May 18, 2018, Friday. At the same meeting, 70 MPs from the BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria have submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 18 May 2018, Friday. A second draft for a decision by nine MPs from the GERB parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" and the parliamentary group of the party on 22 May 2018, Tuesday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for decisions, as should be voted on: 1. Draft decision submitted by 70 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. The second draft for a decision was tabled by 9 MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB party, the parliamentary group of By procedure, I give the floor for 10 minutes to present the proposal for the debate. Mr. Gokov, come in. Just to let you know that on the balcony are the parents of children with disabilities that I talked to and they're here today, with us. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! I begin the presentation of the Project for a solution regarding the debates on the questions of the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities with the clarification that the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are assessing the efforts that you, Mr. Minister, are making regarding this particular topic. This is an extremely important, multi-spectrum and extensive subject, and this is not the first question with scheduled debates on it, nor will it be the last. These questions and debates make it clear that you are trying to respond to the demands of people with disabilities, but they remain with feeling and conviction that not all processes are going in the right direction, but those who are perhaps in the right direction are extremely delayed. In the same way, we are confident of the BSP parliamentary group. Therefore, people with disabilities make protests, and we support them and we ask questions, we ask for resignations and we offer our legislative solutions. And this majority and this government of the state, both in all spheres and in social and specifically in policies for people with disabilities, drives by the method of sampling and error. However, if, in some other systems, this method in certain cases results in the system of support, support and integration of people with disabilities does not tolerate such treatment. I will unobtrusively give you only the example of the Concept for reforming the system for expertise of performance. You claim that it was made by an interdepartmental group of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of Health, of Finance, National Insurance Institute, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, the Agency for Social Assistance and so on and so forth. So it should reflect and balance the interests of all stakeholders, but is that correct? At expert level, it is considered and discussed in the National Council for the Expertise of Workability, where, to put it mildly, it has not been adopted unambiguously, and in the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities, where also very softly, it has not been adopted unambiguously. At political level, it is discussed and discussed in the National Assembly at a joint meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and the Health Committee, and despite the pressure put on by the majority, there is again no consensus. And on top of that, because of the populist talk on this topic, the concept has sparked great public and public interest, and, obviously, the real debate has not taken place to the full extent, and it is necessary to open a wide discussion about opinions and proposals, including especially with all stakeholders. Managers have the ambition to seek agreement, including at political level, on the individual principles of this concept and within 2018 to propose and adopt legislative changes in the spirit of the Concept to present and establish the new model of expertise of workability, but at the same time behave inexplicably arrogantly and do not listen to the opposition's voice and do not accept reasonable proposals. They do not listen to the voice of the nationally represented and other organizations of people with disabilities. Under the pressure of the two protested by them, the Concept was temporarily withdrawn, and I suspect it will wait for the right time to be pushed again. The problems with the integration of people with disabilities are extremely many, and there is no way to run out of a few debates. It is necessary for the development of policies for the integration of disabled people to be closely linked to the implementation of an integrated approach in their management and to enable an individual self-oriented approach based on human rights. These policies must be dependent, inextricably linked and integral to common human rights and fundamental human freedoms. They must ensure full use of rights without any discrimination and ensure integration and full participation of disabled people in public life. There is no doubt that in Bulgaria it is done very little for people with disabilities, but it is also undeniable that this is extremely insufficient. I will refer to only a few moments which we consider urgent from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. What do we think is too late? For example, a law, which you and we are talking about, the Social Services Act, which is laid down in the Plan for the Integration of Disabled People from the Program of the Cabinet Borisov 1, that is, by GERB, and should have been prepared in 2016. We now read that it will be ready or rather submitted on 15 October, and you, Mr. Minister, made a commitment that by the end of August 2018, this law will be ready for discussion. Again in your words, working groups were created in the Ministry, some of which were created after the protests of people with disabilities and after their meetings with BSP. It is clear from the answer to questions put to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy that these groups are working under the Law on Persons with Disabilities, so-called, whatever that means. I'm saying whatever it means because it's announced, but I don't understand why the word "integration" is missing. Perhaps you think the disabled are already integrated into our society? If that's what you think, I'll let you down that no one else does. I don't know, and I ask: why is this a separate law and not part of the Social Services Act? The question is also in full effect: how will what the Ministry and working groups are working on affect in speeding up activities under the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and, respectively, for the Ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations? Will we achieve the objectives of our integration with what the teams at the Ministry are working on, Mr. Minister? The other expected and time-delaying mechanism is the individual needs assessment mechanism. Of course, if we do not count that change that you made in the mechanism a few months ago, and which, unfortunately, not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of disabled people and their organisations, did not actually result in the expected results and did not help to have this individual assessment at all, or if it does, it is not formal and used by someone and for something. The Bulgarian National Assembly ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012, adopted a law on their integration and there is the creation of a single information system. But to this day, it is difficult to tell exactly how many people with different degrees of disability are in our country. The single information register for people with disabilities, the work on which started as early as November 2011 and had to give a clearer picture of the number of these people, the social and health status, their degree of integration in society, the book has long been ready, but in practice it does not allow for the processing of the necessary statistical information on which adequate policies are to be drawn up and the results of these implemented policies to be analysed. The other topic is the topic of personal assistants. It is clear that at this stage there is no readiness and consensus for a law on personal assistance, but it can and should provide security and predictability for people with disabilities who use the service of a personal assistant. You know what I'm talking about. A serious topic when talking about people with disabilities is also the topic of an accessible environment. The requirements provided for to provide an accessible environment for people with disabilities are good, but unfortunately, they are once again only a book and in practice do not apply. National representation and government since 2000 can be admired that they have created a good regulatory base. For example, the Law on Construction of the Area introduces requirements for building an accessible environment, and the specific requirements for providing an accessible environment are introduced by a number of regulations and technical regulations. Regulatory requirements have been created to build an accessible environment in urbanized territories and so on and so forth. There are also many new aids to provide an accessible environment for people with disabilities. But so what? Is the environment accessible to disabled people? I answer this rhetorical question: Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! I see that time is advancing, and I have spoken very little of the necessary action to achieve more complete integration of people with disabilities. With the conviction of the BSP parliamentary group that the strategic goal of the Ministry in the field of the policy for the integration of people with disabilities should be permanently integrated into all areas of public life, by creating conditions and guarantees for equality, social integration and the exercise of rights in support of people with disabilities and their families, as well as their integration into a working environment, I will offer you a Project for a solution and I will urge you to support it. I think that the proposed actions are the minimum that needs to be done, and in a short time. I will not read the Project directly because all MPs are familiar with the proposals for a solution. They are addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and to the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to behave constructively. Although Lord Tsvetan Tsvetanov is gone...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u43	Read the solution, Mr. Gokov for the protocol must be read.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u44	I'll read it: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Instructs the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to: 1. develop and submit by 31 August 2018 to the National Assembly a Social Services Act which will be agreed and approved in advance by the organisations of people with disabilities; 2. develop a working mechanism for individual assessment of the needs of disabled people to ensure their social inclusion; 3. develop adequate and accessible registers of disabled people to enable the processing of the necessary statistical information; 4. provide the necessary number of personal assistants and develop a mechanism for adequate access of disabled persons to this service. II. Instructs the Council of Ministers to: 1. provide accessible environment for people with disabilities according to art. 9 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations and the real implementation of the provision of art. 169 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. take the necessary measures to implement the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 - 2020, respectively ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u46	Now just one sentence, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u47	You'll be able to make speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u48	No, just to say that Mr. Tsvetanov promised constructiveness and let's behave in this spirit of constructiveness in today's discussions and debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Angelova, please give us your draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u50	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present the draft decision signed by the MPs from the parliamentary groups of the political party GERB, together with the members of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Party Biser Petkov on the policy for the integration of people with disabilities. In the Draft Decision, we propose two proposals related to the provision of information in the National Assembly by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy until 30 June 2018. This information is important and is part of the policy of people with disabilities. Our first proposal is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to present to the National Assembly a concept of a draft law on social services. The development of a law on social services is one of the objectives set out in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. This draft law was designed for preparation and adoption within the previous government. It is also part of the management programme of the current government. The preparation of such a law has always been a priority task. The work was indeed delayed compared to our initial intentions and goals, but it was because of the insistence of the NGO partners to spend more time, attention to preparing the concept and developing this really key law. This is a specific and sensitive matter. The aim is to hear a maximum number of opinions, to discuss different positions, to prepare carefully and consensually the texts and ultimately not only to have a single law on social services, but to be good, working, sustainable and, above all, to support the people of vulnerable groups. As early as June 2017, a concept for the development of this draft law was proposed for public consultations. The concept was based on what was achieved and discussed by 2016. Then a letter from 33 non-governmental organizations came to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, demanding that this concept, which they believe has outdated situations, should be withdrawn and that the envisaged adoption of the Social Services Act should be postponed as early as last year in order to take into account all the positions, to make a further process of public consultations on the concept itself and on the draft itself. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy complied with the insistence and, in practice, a new working group was established to develop a draft law on social services on 28 September 2017 by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. There are 87 representatives of state institutions and 54 organizations outside the public sector, 36 of which are from NGOs. At the insistence of NGOs, the working group developed and established a roadmap for the consultation process in the development of the social services law. The roadmap has also been established by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy since January 2018. The concept of the bill, which is to be validated as the first version of the bill itself, according to the scheduled roadmap, must be completed by the end of August 2018, and according to the order for the creation of the working group, the final draft of the law must be presented by 15 October 2018. Because of the key role of social services, as well as prevention of social exclusion and support for persons, particularly in a vulnerable situation, it is extremely important that before the presentation of the draft social services law itself is developed and presented a concept showing the guidelines for future changes. With regard to the application that this law will resolve in a new way the main issues related to the provision, use, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services, we consider it extremely important that, before presenting the draft social services law itself, the concept of the future law be presented to the National Assembly first. In this way, the Members of the National Assembly will have at an earlier stage clarity about the development of future regulations. Our second proposal is for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention of Persons with Disabilities for the period 2015 to May 2018. The second Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is in progress. The action plan outlines the specific steps, clearly defines the role and function of individual state authorities and stakeholders during the reporting period. The Action Plan contains activities aimed at improving the quality of life and social inclusion of disabled people. The current Action Plan sets out measures for the development of concepts under the individual members of the Convention, which contain proposals for regulatory changes. The responsible institutions, their partners, including the national representative organisations of and for disabled people, who are members of the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities, are clearly mentioned. The main strategic objectives set out for implementation in the Action Plan are: defining responsible bodies for controlling and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; drafting concepts for regulatory changes; making changes to the regulatory framework on the basis of already adopted concepts; ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention; protecting the first report to the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; drawing up a long-term national strategy for disabled people in the context of implementing the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In implementing the Action Plan, each of the responsible institutions shall analyse the regulatory framework and prepare the necessary regulatory amendments according to the objectives and deadlines set. Periodic monitoring of the implementation of the activities and measures set out in the Plan shall be carried out. It is important to present a report on the implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to get acquainted with everything that has been done so far in relation to specific steps and role of individual state authorities during the reporting period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I will read to you the time of the parliamentary groups: GERB. 19 minutes,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I open the debate, you have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u52	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I will start with the words of the mother of a disabled child: The policies in Bulgaria in terms of disability are extremely miserable and depressing people with disabilities, wasteful for the budget and society. That's what we're trying to say. It is because they are wasteful to society, there are circles, layers, professional groups that are directly interested in this status quo not being somewhat shaken. Any minor change right now doesn't work for anyone, it's cosmetic, it's got some crappy macchiae material and it can't help anyone because the system needs a bumpy, radical change. Those aren't my words. These are the words of people who are interested in changing the system. The problem that I am about to address right now is related to the services in the home environment - social assistant, personal assistant, domestic assistant. Until last year, these measures were financed mainly under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" through the programs "Alternatives", "Help at home" and "Invisible life." This year a national resource was to be provided through the budget to provide these social services, but this scope kept the scope as it was under the Operational Programme. He's extremely inadequate. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, how in 2008 the National Employment Plan provided 280 million. lv.? The range of users of this service in a home environment covered 24,000 users, and now only 16 000 users are covered.. We are going back and not going forward! Here in this Chamber, I am sure that there will also be lines of the kind: But for this there is a need for financial resources. However, I will tell you the problem is not related to financing and providing financial resources, the problem is elsewhere. See the Long-term Care Plan that we adopted at the beginning of this year 2018, I will only read a few sentences. It has a wishful thinking: it will be done, it will take place, funds will be requested. I only respect one sentence from a random sheet: "For people with physical disabilities who can stay in a home environment, they should be provided... " - When? In future time? Eventually?! Support services for people with disabilities and elderly people who are in partial or complete inability to self-service, lacks sustainability, lacks continuity, lacks predictability, lacks real access, lacks flexible access. People want their individual needs to be at the heart of the service so simple. The criteria are diverse at the moment, there is huge paperwork and bureaucracy. If we wait for things to happen, as with the Social Services Act, I am very sorry we will not get anywhere. The immediate measures are important today and now. In this regard, it is necessary for the Ministry to provide the necessary number of personal social assistants, as they are on the basis of the needs, do we know what they are, and a mechanism for adequate access of disabled persons to this service under point four of the proposed draft decision. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Replies to Mrs. Klisurska's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Papasimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u54	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! An essential element of the overall policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to support people with disabilities and their families is providing affordable, quality and sustainable social services. The main focus in planning and implementing policies in the field of social services is the development of services in the home environment and in the community, changing the institutional model of care, applying an integrated approach and cross-sectoral interaction. Different forms of social services in the community are developed for adults with disabilities, which are financed entirely by the state budget. Currently, 77 daily centers with a total capacity of 1942, 92 centers for social rehabilitation and integration with a capacity of 2837 persons, 107 family-type accommodation centres with a capacity of 1415 persons and 142 protected homes with a capacity of 1235 persons are operating on the territory of the country. The provision of social services in the home environment is also ongoing.. personal assistant, social assistant, domestic assistant, with funding from the state budget. For 2018, the provision of services in the domestic environment of the state budget was provided with funds of 68 million. lv. Decision No 28 of the Council of Ministers of 19 January 2018 adopted an Action Plan for the period 2018 and implementing the National Strategy for Long-term Care, which aims to improve the conditions for independent and decent living in the community by extending and improving the system of long-term care services and implementing the first stage of the process of deinstitutionalization of care for elderly and disabled people. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u55	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u56	As a result of the implementation of the measures under the plan in the community will create 100 new social services for 2140 users. A patronizing care will also be developed for persons with disabilities and elderly people dependent on care. For all newly created services, sustainability is envisaged through funding from the state budget after the end of the project funding from the Structural Funds of the European Union. The implementation of the Plan measures has already started. The provision of social services in the community is part of the scope of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development 2014 " 2020" in the field of social inclusion and people with disabilities and lonely living elderly people in their inability to serve themselves are among the priority target groups of the Programme. They are targeted at some of the first operations that started as early as 2015. To date, the total amount of the funds provided under the operations aimed at people with disabilities is 343 million. The number of persons covered by the measures is nearly 7 thousand and 700 people. In the context of the completion of the project financing under the Operation "Independent Life" in 2017, the government approved a financial resource of 15.7 million. lv. for the continuation of social services personal assistant, social assistant and home assistant. For 2018 the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy under the Programme "Integrating people with disabilities" provided for 68.4 million. lv. providing support to more than 23 400 disabled persons and persons over 65 years of age who are unable to self-service through the part-time appointment of nearly 16 600 personal assistants, social assistants and household assistants. The expansion of the opportunities for improving the quality of life of disabled people and their families is also the main goal of Operation "Active inclusion." Its measures contribute to facilitating access to employment of vulnerable groups. The operation will cover 1120 people with disabilities over 18 years and has a budget of 20 million. lv. The Social Entrepreneurship Development is providing support for the activities of social enterprises, specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled people in relation to employment insurance. The operation's budget is 51 million. 234 thousand. BGN 538 and 1640 are expected to be supported by it. Operation "Support for disabled people" with a budget of 6 million. lv. is aimed at building daily centres for persons with multiple disabilities. Daily and part-time services such as care, rehabilitation, therapy, counseling, information and support will be provided, including those caring for people with disabilities. The operation will cover at least 520 persons with severe disabilities. Operation "Equal chances" with a budget of 8 million. lv. create prerequisites for the active social inclusion of disabled people. Complex actions will be implemented in order to facilitate access to employment of vulnerable groups, as well as to enable return to the labour market of those who took care of them. The activities will be implemented by 2020, with 1200 disabled persons over 18 expected to be included in them. Within the 10th regular meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" three new procedures under Priority Axis 2: poverty reduction and social inclusion promotion were approved. Operation "New long-term care for elderly and disabled people" which has a budget of 4 million. BGN will cover 700 persons with disabilities. The procedure is aimed at conducting preparatory actions for the removal of elderly and disabled people from specialized institutions, prevention of institutionalisation of these persons, evaluation, communication strategy and others. Operation "Patronage care for elderly people and disabled people" has a budget of 30 million. lv. The aim of the operation is to build a model for patronage care for elderly people and disabled persons in order to provide part-time, mobile and integrated health-social services in their homes. It is planned to include 17 thousand individuals from the target group in the operation. The operation "Social inclusion in the community" has a budget of 5 million. lv. and aims to create prerequisites for active social inclusion of disabled people and persons caring for dependent family members. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u57	Colleagues on the left, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u58	The provision of complex services will also facilitate access to employment for persons with different types of disabilities. The activities are expected to cover around 500 disabled people. From what has been said so far, it is clear that both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the State are making systematic efforts to assist people with disabilities. New social services are being created aimed at overcoming the disadvantage and improving the lives of these people. Every year the funds for social activities for disadvantaged people are also increased. For this year, compared to 2017, the increase is 81.4 million. lv. or 43,54%. I know that no matter how much it is done for these people, there will always be little effort, the grief of the disabled and of their loved ones will always remain in their hearts. But from what has been said so far, they are not abandoned, that the state works, cares and strives as much as possible to ease their lives. I have a request to you, colleagues on the left: do not play, do not play with the grief and pain of the people, as a few days ago you played with the fear of the capitalists with the so-called poisonous water! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Papasimov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u60	Dear Mr. Papashimov, the statement written obviously by the Ministry was one of the key manifestations of colon lately. Ten minutes you sit and tell me how well the disabled people in Bulgaria are. I was hoping that at least in one sentence you would say that you didn't finish something and have more to do, and they have been protesting after protest for years. You've been ruling for nine years! [[Reply from GERB: You didn't get anything!]] And there's a woman out there who I don't know her name, who calls me and tells me we didn't do anything. You've been in power for nine years! How much do you have to manage to solve problems? Did you go talk to them? Did you see how one of those kids lived? How could you afford ten minutes to explain to me how much work you've done? At least go and ask them what they want. Is that what they want you to do? You've been written a draft decision, and there are at least five key things you haven't done, and this debate is not going to tell you what you've done, because from your cocooning here neither the people on TV nor the people with disabilities understood anything. What we had to say in this room is what we have to do quickly, now, now. The other is, I apologize, fathead! I'm sorry! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u61	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u62	I'm just going to quote the words of a mother who may be upstairs. These are the following: I prefer to die before my child, because there is no one to take care of him. Shame on you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go, Dr. Papasimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u64	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Kutev, in order to know what we need to do and how we need to develop these social activities to help people with disabilities, we need to say what we have done. According to your words, we haven't done anything, but this is your demagogy. This is not our demagogy. You cannot deny all the things that are being done by the Ministry, by the state for this group of people. I don't know back over the years what you've done, but we're doing a lot more than you are, and we're gonna keep doing it. Thank you. [[Applause and lines from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u65	Thank you, Dr. Papasimov. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! What I want to start with is that one of the important criteria for the maturity of a society is the way policies relating to people with disabilities are conducted. From this point of view, I would like to mention that this must necessarily be in line with international standards. It is known to everyone that in 2012, we ratified here in the National Assembly, United Nations Convention No 2 on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There are clearly defined standards that we are obliged to comply with. It is no secret to anyone that each of the governments is making an effort to increase the cost of policies for disabled people, to try in some way to reform the system and this way of reforming to lead to decent participation of disabled people in public life. A dignified participation means an independent life in the community, something people with disabilities strive for over the years. In order to be effective in this discussion, it is imperative that we mention the objectives that should follow policy reform for people with disabilities. In my view, these objectives must be linked to the implementation of the Plan for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the signing of the Protocol on ratification of the United Nations Convention is the ultimate objective. These are the two important rehearsals that we need to follow, with the corresponding goals that we need to set. The colleagues who have spoken so far have spoken about these matters. However, I would like to emphasise that anyone who tries to articulate any problems in this area must be aware of two things. Firstly, nothing for disabled people should be done without disabled people. I am opening up a clamp and I must say that it is commendable the efforts made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in these working groups to bring together the people of the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People and the other NGOs who work in this area, including the mothers of disabled children. The second thing to note in this regard is that once the rights of people with disabilities have been won, they cannot be taken away, and that we must stress it again fat, because it is very important. Now very often the discussion arises whether there should be more money in this system, or should there be more reforms? One of the political parties involved in the country's governance even said that on the basis of reforming the system, we can get savings and savings to go to strengthen some of the policies related to people with disabilities. For me, this approach is absolutely wrong and proof of this is that within a year nothing has been done about this problem. This is because there is no way and how it can be done. As to whether there should be more money? It is clear that the state can afford as much as the gross domestic product as it can spare for this area. Each government makes every effort to make that money more. Here were said a few moments ago, a Calendar of Success was targeted.. Nearly 82 million is in excess of the money compared to 2017. The natural question that arises is: why, after increasing the money, does not reduce the discontent of people with disabilities? Why is there no correlation between the effort to increase funds in this sector and meeting the needs of disabled people? This is because within the available financial resource, whatever it is, there is no optimal distribution of this financial resource or the way in which this financial resource is allocated does not lead to an effective use of these funds. Here, I think, is the big key, and there must be a search for the great truth about how to get people with disabilities out of their homes, to be able to accept them, to have an accessible environment, to have opportunities for rehabilitation, to have opportunities that people with disabilities in other European countries have. Because the most important thing is in these legislative initiatives that are being discussed now, or the key, crucial moment is how and how the mechanism for the so-called social assessment will be defined. Or as before, it's called "injury." Because if we do the evaluation the way we've done it so far, we can't get to the individual approach. Disabled people want on the basis of an individual approach, based on an evaluation by a multidisciplinary team to determine the specific needs and based on these specific needs to sign the ways of supporting people with disabilities so that they can have an independent life in the community. That's the most important thing, and it's probably the hardest thing. Therefore, my request is that this mechanism be clear with people with disabilities, because it is the key, it is the key to all ways of supporting people with disabilities. And with one more moment, I would like to engage your attention: with the so-called assistant programs. However much money for these assistant programs, honourable colleagues, twice, five times to be increased, they will not do one job the way that this money is now distributed. See what this is about. The Agency for Social Assistance shall conclude contracts with the municipalities. I don't mind the local authorities, but the local authorities by definition have mandate thinking, there are people there with the red flumaster that cross out the politically uncomfortable people. I have such letters in the Commission, I can give many examples. Therefore, this way needs to be reviewed, this is a very important thing, because people who need support do not receive this support precisely under this mechanism. I conclude, Madam President, in the hope that, together with the experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the disabled people will be written the texts in the new laws which will lead to the solution of the problem of personal assistance that people with disabilities can manage on their own. Thank you. [[Unique applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u67	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u68	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members! By the number of MPs I see today in this Chamber, I understand how important people with disabilities are to you. I've been out on this stage many times and almost every time you've heard the same things from me. There is no point in repeating them, but I want to tell you that these people exist, they will continue to exist, and if no action is taken, they will start to increase. Here I will not mention the false invalids, as the Deputy Prime Minister likes to call them, but I think that a political decision should be made today and that political will should be manifested in this Parliament. If it hasn't happened before, at least let's do it for these people. I don't like praying, I don't like praying, but today I'm going to make an exception. Dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to support our draft decision because it is actually what these people want. We've coordinated it with them, it's not our illusion. Please support our Decision Project and show that this Parliament actually cares about these people and that something could happen eventually. I'm part of these people and I'm sad. On May 18, I had my birthday, and I wished that there would be no people with disabilities, because I meet these people, unlike you, and my eyes are filled with tears many times. God save them! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues! There really are times when you cross the line of populism. The subject is extremely serious. It was exported to you what was done, and also a Project for a decision on what should be done. There's basically no difference in the projects. Young sir, I respect you sincerely. You had a birthday and made a wish. On June 17th, my granddaughter turns 18 and is a disabled child who wants 24 hours of care 24/7. So don't think that there are soulless people here who don't know what a child or a disabled person means. We all want to improve this environment. Don't play on those thin strings! You crossed the line yesterday, we didn't do any lines. Yesterday Mr. Stoinev here was talking about how, if someone wanted to manipulate elections...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u71	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u72	...and at the same time, there are people in your group who are suing them right now for buying elections. Don't cross the line, don't play with these people's fears! We all want these things with people with disabilities to be resolved responsibly, together we will solve them, but be a little more modest because you are crossing all boundaries, and this is now called "popularism." Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u74	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! When you say how much you have done for people with disabilities, I will read to you: what have you done for the Individual Assessment Mechanism, what have you done for the records of people with disabilities, have you provided the required number of personal assistants, provided an accessible environment, and what measures have you done under the Disability Convention Plan? Here are the solutions here, this thing. [[Shows. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I really wanted this debate to be constructive, but from experience I know and I knew that it would not be constructive, that it would be a cheap way to seek political dividends again, because this is what BSP does in this National Assembly, so it has always been so far. The common thing between the word "sociality" and "socialism" is only the root, there is nothing in common with the two words. The Bulgarian Socialist Party is not any social party, given the fact that it was a socialist party. However, this is a major topic for the etymology of the word, the nature of the party, the connectivity with the social idea. There's a lot we can talk about. And today, standing at the bank, I felt that the BSP spoke before me were prosecutors. They stood on this bank as accusers, state prosecutors, and we had to feel like criminals. We were left with our finger, as if we were to blame for all the troubles, for the underage in this area, for the problems of the tens and hundreds of thousands of people with disabilities, for which we suffer no less. And when the tone and the indictment is prosecutorial and in this sense, I remember because I have made a simple scrap: from November 10th, that is, from the moment when we can believe that the new time of change has come, until now the Bulgarian National Assembly has had eleven editions. Of these eleven popular meetings five were dominated by BSP, five out of eleven, almost half, and of all twelve governments six were governments or in a coalition were participated by BSP. The last Oresharski government I think was less than three years ago, correct me, or a little more time ago than three years ago. That is to say, if someone in this Chamber is guilty of these problems, that Bulgaria is not a social state as it is under the Constitution, but is turned into a liberal state, we can say that the main, main wines are purely chronologically the fault of those who have ruled the Bulgarian state since 10 November so far, it is clear who they are. In such cases, we need to be quiet, we need to be more condescending, we need to be more constructive, we need to be more constructive, and we need to in no way play around with grief and people's problems, but we need to look for common solutions. Dr. Ademov was the only one so far who was constructive in his speech, in his views, what he proposed. This was supposed to be the tone, thus debating, commenting on not some young people here to forget where the problems started, whose faults have increased so much to get to today's debate. There are two proposals, two draft decisions, I will support what is in the government, and I will tell you constructively why. The first is nice, but in its two points it only deals with issues related to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, while the second draft decision includes the recommendation and the intention to develop it legally from now on, to develop a lean system for the protection of people with disabilities. This could be done with a future law that has a place in the system of our law in relation to the branch, which has already developed and exercised as a social law, the branch in relation to the social needs of the people. This is for me. Without much aplomb, without being dramatic, without trying to create an excess today from the problems of people with disabilities, I propose and call on you to support the proposal of the government in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Do you have a line, Mr. Kutev? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u78	Dear Mr. Shopov, it's kind of a tradition for you not to hit the spot...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u79	Put the map on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u80	...which you're in. I mean, I'm not speaking as a public prosecutor, but as a private prosecutor, because I've been meeting these people for a year and a half and I've been talking all the time. All the things I wrote were said on their behalf. And you, as a man of government, should be the one responsible for what's done and what's not done. You still can't understand that you're in the department, and you are and you are responsible for this management. The management of GERB, which have been in power for 9 years. By the way, for comparison, BSP has been in power for a total of 8 years throughout the transition period. And when you're in the department, practicing and apologizing with others, in this case with BSP, to put it mildly, is incorrect, but you know it very well, because what you're doing is doing it on purpose. You know very well that at the moment you are the Patriots and personally you, as a member of the Patriots, are responsible for what is happening and what is not happening. The designs aren't the same at all. This shit that you wrote here, how you recommend that the concept be ready by June! We are proposing a solution and we are asking for a solution. We are asking you for a Social Services Act, which should have been done two years ago, not a concept of a law! Law! We ask you for a mechanism for individual needs assessment! This is what we want in your draft decision is gone, but we want it not for the people with disabilities. We ask you for registers that meet the need to be able to draw statistical conclusions from them. Your draft decision does not exist in ours. What do you support? Excuse me, you're lying to us. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u82	Mr. Kutev, I'm sorry, but everyone saw you talking as a prosecutor again. About everything you said, we had to talk constructively, calmly. It's a question of debate to argue whether you've been eight years or more or less. I didn't talk about how many years you've been, I said what the chronology is, how many meetings, how many you've managed, how many governments have been to you alone or in a coalition. Each law is made when it is adopted, created a concept.. That is why I talked about a concept. First it's the concept, then it builds... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u83	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u84	...creates..we know what the legislative process is. Stop speaking on behalf of these disabled people "We can also speak on their behalf, we also have voters who are disabled people who ask us their questions, their needs, their problems. Stop at last, after all these years I try to advise you from the BSP to speak constantly on behalf of the underprivileged, the poor, the socially weak, the needy, the disabled. It's in the job description of every politician, it's his job to fight for these people. You've led a demagogic, collective role in doing so, and you've been deceiving society for so many years. Every delusion ends in the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u86	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conducting it to remind the topic of today's debate: the integration of people with disabilities and people with disabilities in general. I think we're coming out of whatever constructive, if there's such a dialogue in this House at all. So please remind the MPs what we are debating here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u88	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor to consider what has been done and is to be done with regard to access to the physical environment for living, transport, communication of disabled people, which is part of the problem and is the basis for integration. Acting in Activity 3, p. 1.3. of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is organized the development of measures in relation to an accessible architectural environment. A major problem related to the accessibility of the architectural environment established in existing buildings and facilities in operation with a view to fulfilling the obligation of the State as a party to the Convention on the Monitoring of the Implementation of Minimum Standards for Access, along with the legislative changes proposed in the Concept, has also had the need to assess the impact of existing policies and those proposed in relation to the accessible architectural environment in existing buildings and facilities. Why is that important? Because when legislative proposals are made for changes in buildings, firstly, in buildings that are monuments of culture, it is very difficult to make such changes. Furthermore, the balance must be made between the costs that are financial, administrative, benefits and social effects of taking such measures in order to abolish or change the regulatory regulation in force with regard to buildings and public service facilities at central and territorial level. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u89	Mr. Svilensky, if you turn around, you'll see how many MPs stand up and talk. Please, fellow Members, take your seats and stop talking, because the subject is really very important. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u90	Regulation No RD-02-20-2 of 20 December 2017 on the planning and design of the communication and transport system of urbanised territories has been adopted in accordance with the analyses and conclusions made, which repealed the previous regulation. In the process of implementing the Second Action Plan for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Action Plan outlines concrete steps, clearly defines the role and functions of individual public authorities and stakeholders. It contains six priorities related to the main important things that need to be monitored with regard to people with disabilities - access to an environment for living, transport, IT technology, health services, qualification and requalification. The responsible institutions, their partners, are clearly mentioned, including the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities. In implementing the Action Plan, each of the responsible institutions shall analyse the regulatory framework, prepare the necessary regulatory amendments according to the set objectives and deadlines. Monitoring shall be carried out periodically, which shall be the responsibility of the State of the Convention. In conclusion,... concerning the ratification of the Additional Protocol of the Convention. By ratifying the Additional Protocol, any State Party to the Convention recognises the competence of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. What's next? After ratification, people with disabilities can prosecute the state, so this ratification must be examined very precisely and done at the right time. Thank you. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Please be quiet, colleagues. There was a line. Isn't there a line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Almost a year after the first debate caused by our parliamentary group, for the problems of people with disabilities, the report is several protests, growing civil discontent of disabled people, parents of disabled children, stopped reform in the telks and accordingly deepening chaos. This provokes us to ask... as our colleague said, this is our task: why is the social protection system insufficient to deal with the acute social problems? I would like to say that I have listened carefully to your reply, Mr. Minister, the previous week of the questioning of colleagues Kutev and Hristov, the 81 million increase in the budget you mentioned, 68 million. 400,000. one of the programs, 13 million for monthly integration supplements and so on. A moment ago, my colleague quoted the corresponding amounts, perhaps about 10 minutes ago. So far, so good. What, though, is the result? Today we are debating, colleagues, policies and reforms. They're not always worth millions. If there's another protest, it's obviously not the right direction. In each of these protests, people with disabilities were promised a new Social Services Act to satisfy some of their demands. So a few years. Multiple requests in the Commission and on blitzcontrol until the last date you reported a week ago, but will this be final? The question arises: will the new law be adequate at this time, because the concept was proposed in this form in 2014 at the public discussion last July? Both in 2014, and in 2015, the organizations that sent opinions were not reflected, which requires the development and preparation of a new working group, as you mentioned earlier at the beginning, Mrs. Angelova. Another task force! I would like to ask: will this new law be working and what will be the main measures that you have changed after the public discussion last year? At the same time, another working group is being established, for another new law, as presented to us the Law for the People with Disabilities. I welcome this because we really need a new social model to support people with disabilities. However, I think that people with disabilities must also think that this new law is once again preparing only a concept, so that you can use a few more years of time.................... not years, I very much hope it is not so, to buy time and once again to make empty promises to people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Ministers! I would like to say a few facts: there is a prepared assessment of the impact of existing policies and legal provisions on the monitoring carried out with regard to providing an accessible architectural environment as a basis for people's integration. Is our policies sufficient and what we are missing? a survey conducted by the external firm Euro consultants, which finds very serious things that should bring us back to see what and how we do, because with the so-called concepts we will not get far. We need to start implementing these concepts! What are the conclusions? All agree that there is a problem in providing an accessible architectural environment in Bulgaria. Thirty-eight percent of the problems are due to inefficient implementation of the legal framework and 31% is due to the lack of monitoring in compliance with the regulations. So let us have a law and abide by these arrangements that we now have and monitoring so that we can track how funds are spent and what are the realities of the accessible environment for these disabled people! I can give you two examples. The rich municipality of Sofia: more than 200 schools of municipal and state in Sofia, five schools have a real accessible environment with elevators for children with disabilities; the municipality of Berkovitsa is in need: the department for social activities is on the fourth floor of the building, there is no ramp, there is no elevator. People with disabilities cannot reach and say their demands in this Directorate. Therefore, let us strengthen control, monitoring and under the current Law art. 169 of the ECT for this answer the state and its structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u95	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any other statements? Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. [[Noise and lines.]] You have exactly two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My proposal, because I only have two minutes, is to support the Project, which has been tabled by our parliamentary group. It contains details that do not contradict each other and contain ways and steps of action to be carried out by both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Council of Ministers. The other project, which was submitted by the MPs from GERB, "United Patriarchs" and "Volja" is internally controversial. It will, on the one hand, take account of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Convention, which states that the Law on which we will adopt a concept should have been adopted two years ago. In itself, one will lead to saying that part of the Plan has not been implemented, and someday further we will have to seek justification for why it has not been implemented. Therefore, I suggest: support the Project for a solution that is consistent and accurate! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? There aren't any. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u98	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the people with disabilities! I have listened with attention to the discussion, to the discussions on policies for the integration of people with disabilities. The fact is that for the second time the Forty-fourth National Assembly discussed this topic. The fact is that there are many unresolved issues, but I assure you that for the last year the problems of people with disabilities are priority on the agenda of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and on my agenda as a minister. Undoubtedly, social services are a very important tool for social inclusion of disabled people. Therefore, long before the beginning of this government's mandate is set as a goal, as a task the development of a separate Social Services Act, as you know, they are regulated as part of the Social Assistance Act. Already at the beginning of the term of office, as mentioned in the speeches, in June we resumed work based on what was achieved at this time. However, it did not meet support from our partners and therefore the work had to start again. Since September 2017, the deadline for the development of the Draft Law on Social Services is 15 October 2018. This deadline is not from yesterday, but from September 2017. When commenting on the deadline, to also look at Protocol No 11 of the Commission meeting on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints, when, in the case of a hearing, in response to current questions, exactly in February 15 February, I reiterated these deadlines. This is a realistic deadline within which the Draft Law on Social Services will be ready. Of course, it takes technological time for its public discussion and adoption by the Council of Ministers. Within the period proposed accordingly, we will also be ready with the concept of this law, I hope, supported by all stakeholders who are represented in the working group, because social services are a kind of bridge to services with universal access to which disabled people and other vulnerable groups should have access. With regard to assistant services or domestic services. What the current government has done is for the first time to remove them from project-programme funding, which has been provided so far, and to provide budgetary funding, thereby ensuring sustainability of the financing of these services. I would like to inform you that a working group is preparing a standard for financing this service, such as a State-sponsored activity, which is the next step, respectively, to ensure sustainability of financing of these services. More than 25 thousand are users of these services, I would like to submit this clarification; 16 thousand are personal assistants, i.e. the people who carry out this service, which, as is known, is provided both under bilateral agreements between the Social Assistance Agency and the Bulgarian municipalities, as well as under the National Program "Assistants for People with Disabilities" which is part of the National Employment Action Plan. I would like to mention that people with disabilities, those with over 90%, with the right to foreign assistance, receive the so-called foreign aid supplement, which amounts to 90 BGN. It is certainly not enough, but in fact from the budget of the State Social Security for this purpose is paid annually over 90 million. lv. What we are proposing is regulation in a law of the service "Personal assistance" that is, the support with cash for this service, which people with disabilities can manage on their own. What we have done is a change in the mechanism, in the order to pay for the targeted aid for aids and medical devices, and for the first time complementing the list of medical devices since 2008 with three new medical devices, which are aimed precisely at making up for the shortage of the functional deficit of children with disabilities, above all. It is about children's wheelchairs, children's ring wheelchairs and children's verticals. I would like to say, without repeating these amounts, that the resource that allocates society to people with disabilities is not small. It is not enough, but what we will try to do by developing the new regulation is to restructure it and redirect it in a way that people with disabilities feel support. I will mention only one amount: 152 million per year from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is paid as so-called integration supplements. A sum that sounds impressive, but the size of the integration supplements, the single dimensions 11 " BGN 15," the people with disabilities do not feel them as support. What we're proposing is a radical change. We have begun this radical change by preparing a new Social Services Act and a new Law for people with disabilities. We have invited, we have included in the development of these two key laws representatives of all organizations of people with disabilities, not only the nationally represented but also representatives of the Sixth Protest of the mothers of children and persons with disabilities, some of whom are here. The working group from last week is complemented by their representatives. I rely on their cooperation, on their work, contribution, and on your support to make a long-awaited change in policies for people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm closing the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposed drafts for a solution. We are about to vote on a draft decision submitted by 70 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP), No 854-00-35, from 18 May 2018, and on a draft decision submitted by 9 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Party GERB, the United Patriarchs. The full text of Mr. Gokov was read at the presentation of the Bill of BSP for Bulgaria. After consulting me, I find that the second draft decision has not been read, so it is appropriate to introduce you to it, and then we will proceed to the vote. Project! DECISION in connection with debates on questions No 854-05-32 of 4 May 2018 by the MPs Anton Kutev and Mihail Hristov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policy for integration of people with disabilities The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister for Labour and Social Policy by 30 June 2018: 1. To present to the National Assembly the Concept for the Draft Law on Social Services. [[Noise and lines.]] I introduce you to the draft decision to be voted on. Please don't replicate from place! You will express your attitude by voting. I'm reading the draft decision: "2." To submit to the National Assembly a Report on the implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( It is signed by Members of the National Assembly, importers of the Draft Decision. Let's move on to the vote. In accordance with the procedure, the draft decision, presented by 70 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, is voted on first. Please vote. Vote 166 MPs: 74 against 5, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the second draft decision. Please vote. Vote 165 MPs: 97 against 67, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted with this decision on the proposed project by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. For a negative vote, first, Mr. Kutev, then Mr. Gokov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u100	Honourable Members [[part of the MPs from GERB parliamentary group leave the hall]] , the noise in the room quite well shows the attitude to the subject, for which I thank you on behalf of those who today, in fact, you, in public terms, have screwed up. So, to all those who are leaving the Chamber right now, I would like to remind you what the difference is between the two decisions. In your decision, which I voted against, there are actually two wishes, one of them is to make a concept. I would like to remind you that people who are now watching you leave this room don't want a concept, they want solutions. They want something that has to result. The concept that you are predicting today does not result. I would like to tell you that the likelihood of this falling out of power is very high, or this Parliament breaking down before you pass this law. Even if it becomes October, October still has this chance, if you delay another two months, the law will not be passed and people will still be at zero. That you have two solutions that are purely wishful thinking, one is a concept, and the other is to review how the Plan is going, with no solution really, with nothing to give them a plus, it's something that I'm against, but it's not the worst. The worst part is that the decision you have actually proposed directs all efforts towards one or at least that is what it looks like in it, to the Social Services Act. I would especially like to note to Mr. Minister that this is the most wrong decision of parliament that I have seen because the Social Services Act, which I have been talking about for a year and a half, is very important, but it does not solve at all all, not to mention that it does not solve all the important problems of people with disabilities. Children with disabilities, who up to 18 years of age receive more than 90%, for example 900 BGN. Then they won't stop getting 200, for example, with all their supplements or 150, because with this law you don't solve it, and this is a problem of their lives because they don't get healthier or more opportunities. This is the system, it is currently punishing them to live further by 150 leva. For the rest of my life, as long as they can. This law doesn't solve the matter for that. Now, Minister, we've asked him three times how many people need a personal assistant? And no one's ever told me how many there are. That's why we need a register that was in our bill, and yours wasn't. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, I can stop, and right now, there's a bunch of things I might not tell you. The point is that what you have taken is the most wrong decision of the National Assembly, which is what is being seen, and that is why I was against it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Gokov is explaining a negative vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear colleagues from GERB, again you failed to outdo yourself. You submitted at the last minute a proposal for a decision, your project, as you always do, in connection with our questioning, just so it doesn't belong to ours, as they say. I say to you from this tribune that neither I, nor my colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, hold on to the authorship of whatever it was, however, we very seriously insist that these people's problems be resolved, and in the case of your solution, there is no such solution to people's problems. I will also tell you why I voted against. Just a week ago in the debates, in response to the questioning of Kutev and Mihaylov, the Minister said: At the end of this month we expect the widely represented group, which is a broad representation of NGOs to present a full concept of this law. What are you doing? You owe it by a decision of the National Assembly, I quote: To present to the National Assembly a concept for a draft Law on Social Services by 30 June. Why? Do you not believe this man, who promised it to you here from the stand of this National Assembly, that you should oblige him with a draft decision of the National Assembly, with a decision of the National Assembly? Somehow broadcast by you Minister and so much mistrust? I don't know. Next: To submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the Action Plan. Well, since 2013, such reports have been submitted each year, Mrs. Angelova, because you signed first on this proposal. I don't know what else the Minister will do, except to bring in his duty as per the law. Why was this decision to vote here, to make circuses in front of people with disabilities? And not a word about an individual assessment of the needs of people, about the permanent problem with personal and social assistants, the accessible environment of people with disabilities, about the Convention. I accuse you of trying again to pull the number, to show that you are very involved with the problem, but to hide the Minister and the Council of Ministers from the real problems and not to give a solution to people with disabilities. It's not normal and it's not constructive. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving on to questions and questions to ministers within the framework of today's parliamentary control. First to a question from the National Representative Bogdan Botsev will answer Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The issue concerns improving the purchase control of secondary raw materials points of improperly removed elements of road and water infrastructure. Please, Mr. Botsev, you have to come up with your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Lately, there have been repeated cases of transmission for secondary raw materials of road signs, parts of boards, shaft covers and elements of the road and plumbing structure. Not a few of the cases were reflected by the media and it became clear that the elements were wrongly removed. This removal is a direct danger to traffic and to the occurrence of road accidents. At the same time, such actions are damaging the budget for which the account must be reimbursed. My question is: what will you take to improve control and ensure compliance with the Law when transferring and accepting waste and elements from the water and road infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Botsev! The control for compliance with the conditions and procedures for carrying out activities with waste of ferrous and non-ferrous metals under the Waste Management Act shall be carried out by the Minister of Environment and Water, the Director of the Regional Environment and Water Directorate concerned, the mayor of the municipality from the site location or officials and bodies of the Ministry of Interior, according to their competences. A verification sheet covering all aspects of the verification has been developed to improve the interaction and improve the collaboration with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to facilitate significantly the work of the verifiers. To improve control and ensure compliance with the provisions of the Waste Management Act as well as in relation to the fight against the theft of waste from ferrous and non-ferrous metals, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the relevant regional inspections work closely with the Ministry of Interior services. The employees of RIEW and the Ministry of Interior carry out regular checks on sites that accept waste from black and non-ferrous metals. The latest amendments to the Waste Management Act introduced additional criminal provisions to limit the acceptance of waste in the so-called risk nomenclature by natural persons. They are punished with a penalty of 15 to 50 thousand. lv. sole traders, legal persons who accept from natural persons non-ferrous and non-ferrous metal waste which is not domestic, including the relevant waste from the relevant infrastructure for which you ask the question. In 2017, 873 persons were checked and 945 sites were inspected. The results of these checks are: issued 226 numbers of prescriptions, 77 acts of established administrative violations, 47 penal decrees. An order has also been issued to stop activity under art. Art. 128, Art. 129 of the Waste Management Act, i.e. where there is a repeat infringement, the regional inspection is entitled to stop this activity, which is a fact of one of those sites last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Botsev, would you care to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u108	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Obviously, in 2017, one part of the necessary measures were taken, but perhaps more efforts should be made jointly by the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Interior to prevent even more of these cases, because in my region I have specific signals from both the local authorities and people who are witnessing such cases. If there are further measures to be taken, perhaps such as installing cameras or something like that, because this also damages the budget of municipalities, and the Road Infrastructure Agency. The bigger problem is that there is a danger to the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u109	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. Minister, there are no other questions for you. Thank you for your participation and for your response. The next question is to Minister Rumen Porozhanov " Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests." He will answer a question of the National Representative Violeta Zheleva and the National Representative Nikola Dinkov on priorities under the Rural Development Programme for areas with natural constraints and for border regions. Mrs. Zheleva, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question concerns the possibility of priority when applying the Rural Development Programme for areas with natural constraints and border areas. According to the criteria currently in force under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 priority areas of Northwestern Bulgaria. At the same time, areas with recognised problems with infrastructure, demographics, employment are not reported in the rankings for applying private measures. In order to overcome the regional differences, a targeted investment programme for low-developed regions was developed "Northwest Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar and the border regions, where, in addition to the priority funding of socially significant projects, bonus points are provided for applications under the Rural Development Programme when applying for the relevant projects. At present, good intentions have remained in this programme, and less developed areas are experiencing more and more difficulties and noticeably depopulated. The offers and bonus points under the Rural Programme are a fact only for Northwestern Bulgaria. What makes this difference? Accordingly, our question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on promoting investment in these areas? Are there any opportunities for support for these territories in the current programming period and, if so, in what direction? Will the new programming period be a priority for border regions and Strandzha-Sakar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u112	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, Dear Mr. Dinkov, the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020 was developed in the period 2012 - 2015. The objectives and priorities set within the Programme are based on an analysis of the current situation in the country in the relevant period. It is also in line with the priorities set out in the Partnership Agreement with the European Union. This is a horizontal agreement that applies to all programmes. With regard to the prioritization of territorial principle, the Programme focuses on rural areas, disadvantaged areas, Natura 2000 sites and the North-West region of the country. The analysis, which has been developed on the characteristics of the country's territory, identifies as problems of poor state of public infrastructure, negative demographic trends, limited opportunities for employment and entrepreneurship in the country's rural areas. In this regard, the relevant mechanisms for overcoming them are laid down, insofar as the limited financial resource of the Programme allows. Targeted receptions aimed at investing in public infrastructure, prioritizing projects carried out in municipalities with high unemployment rates, supporting projects creating jobs, including rural areas, are also provided. Within the framework of investment measures, priority support is provided for investments in public infrastructure of rural municipalities. As regards private investment measures, priority support is provided for the territorial principle of projects implemented within rural areas and disadvantaged areas of the country, as well as in the Natura 2000 sites for projects related to the implementation of environmental practices in production. In this way, opportunities for business development, increased employment and improved living conditions in these areas will be stimulated. It is necessary to emphasise that in rural areas, underprivileged areas and protected areas of..................................... these three indicators are largely overlap with the territorial scope of Strandzha-Sakar. This is a combination with the criteria representing the possibility of prioritizing projects contributing to limiting negative demographic trends. Projects within the scope of the border areas falling within Strandzha-Sakar shall be provided. In developing the objectives and priorities of the programming period, an analysis of the characteristics of the country's territory should be carried out from 2021 until 2027. The same will be used as a basis in defining the new priorities related to ensuring targeted support, which will enable updating and developing the criteria for assessing the measures. Once again, I would like to focus on this, namely in the Partnership Agreement with the European Union, which is a horizontal measure, the analysis is horizontal for the whole country and there is only priority for regions, with the focus of Northwestern Bulgaria, and that is why this priority is in the Rural Development Programme. The other characteristics, which I highlighted, in the light of the circumstances, which are not eligible areas, are in any event overlapd by the rural areas themselves, as I said, to a greater extent Strandzha-Sakar, and this makes it possible and priority in scoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dinkov, you will further develop the question, you will take consideration of the answer.................. you have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! We are very concerned about the situation in Strandja-Sakar, in particular in the region of Sakar Mountain, which is in Haskovo region. Regarding road infrastructure, which is the duty of the state, there are roads in extremely poor condition and there are no things doing on this programme to improve it. There are roads from Svilengrad to Sladun People are waiting for some solutions, and that is why we are asking this question. This is my first time in the Bulgarian Parliament. From this tribune so much talk about measures for the demographic crisis I have not heard and no action to resolve these issues. This area is an agricultural area. If we do not help farmers in this area, they will continue to have no help, the area to be depopulated, and while we are talking about measures, there will be no people left. So, Mr. Minister, nice sentences, a good answer, but a reply to a newspaper that no one will read. We must tell people clearly: we will help you or we will not help you. I didn't understand anything from this conversation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, please come in and complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u116	Thank you. The farmers are helped by a Guarantee Fund, on various other projects with 800 million. lv. Annually. The subsidies that go for disadvantaged areas, including Strandja-Sakar, are paid. It's paid regularly. Farmers shall benefit from support schemes that go under the European Guarantee Fund and, respectively, from national funds which overlap the inability to pay one or other sectors financed by European funds. Regarding the application for investment under the European programmes, that was your question, I clearly said that this area overlaps many of the priority criteria. Of course, in terms of roads that are Republican or in border areas, we have co-financing here from the Roads Agency. Undoubtedly, there are roads that are not fixed. You know much better, because I haven't been to this area recently, you must be from this area of MPs, but the Rural Development Program is not a panacea to fix absolutely all the infrastructure in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This concludes the questions to Minister Dimov and Minister Porozhanov. Thank you for your input. Parliamentary control continues with questions to Nikolay Nankov "The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works." In relation to the declarations made in today's meeting and according to our rules, the meeting will continue until 14.30 in order to be able to take into account the time used for the declarations, so that Minister Nankov will have the opportunity to answer most of the questions asked to him. The first question is from the MP Dragomir Stoynev about the need for major renovation of the Republican road III-5504 village of Mudrets. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister Nankov, my question to you concerns the.................................................................................... by the Ministry.................................................................................................................................................................... The situation there was so severe that there was an initiative committee that took the necessary action to block the road. I suppose that you, as a minister, are uncomfortable that it comes to similar actions by the Bulgarian citizens, but the situation is not tolerated because, Mr. Minister, every day there are 90 buses carrying replacement and regular staff to Rüdnik-3. 26 buses to "Contour Global"; 40 minibuses of repair companies to businesses; about 30 trucks per day; 25 trucks to "Knauf" and over 500 private cars, i.e. an extremely busy road. For the viewers to explain that it is a road near the complex of Maritsa East. I therefore very much hope, since it has been a long time since I asked this question that concrete action has been taken and I would like to hear from you exactly what action have you taken? I remember the Prime Minister's wish because he didn't believe there were so many holes in every hole to have a man from the administration. If you would have fulfilled that wish, perhaps the entire Ministry would have spilled itself on this particular road, but I suppose you really have taken the necessary action to basically repair the road, because the initiative committee's desire is to make a major repair of this very busy road, a road where nothing has been touched for nearly 36 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the first question asked to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, I will start where you have graduated for 36 years, not for a year or two or three, nothing has been done along the way, and not just this one. Indeed, the state of operation of the Republican road III-5504 Sage The Road Infrastructure Agency is making efforts, although absolutely insufficient at the moment, to maintain the roads from the Republican road network in Stara Zagora according to the resources available and the financial framework of the repair programmes in normal operation. During the past year on road III-5504 there was a patching of asphalt flooring and laying of horizontal marking worth almost 65 000 BGN. I mentioned, extremely inadequate as a solution. The implementation of road maintenance activities is insufficient, but budget constraints have not allowed repairs to be carried out in greater volume. The Agency shall take into account the importance of the section and the need to prepare a project consistent with intensive heavy traffic, but the site is not included in the API design programme for 2018 due to a shortage of financial resources. The project collateral of the site will be planned at the next stage, when the necessary funds are available, and at that time in the 2019 budget year the Road Infrastructure Agency will continue to take care of the section along the current maintenance. I personally am optimistic in view of the implementation of the country's budget for the first quarter report. God forbid the second quarter. The fixed funds will be allocated to the Road Infrastructure Agency with the request of the Council of Ministers, within which we will have the possibility of repairing and maintenance in the section of which I mentioned, but at the moment in the repair program of the Road Infrastructure Agency, I mentioned for what reasons, the project is not included for the design and reconstruction and rehabilitation. You also mentioned the Prime Minister's words about a police officer or a clerk in every hole. It is not a coincidence that we have already taken action in this direction, because the systemic problem in our road sector, which has not been for a year or two, has been for almost as many years, which you have mentioned, that the current road has not been rehabilitated for 30 years, namely under-financing, the financial deficit in the road sector, not only for the Republican, but also for municipal roads. Since our first day, our main goal is precisely the speedy operation, and the introduction of the future mixed system - a toll system for heavy goods vehicles and wineries for passenger cars - in order to have the necessary resources not in the following year - two, but in the long term to maintain in good, very good operation state Republican roads. We have commitments to the municipal through the toll system, of course, and to build all the undeveloped sections of the country's auto-mound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoynev, you have the opportunity to reply. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have a feeling you've found the universal answer. I hope that you will not answer the other 11 questions to you... that the system, which is supposed to work next year, but may be in 2020, because such answers you give, until then we have to wait, because suddenly millions, billions will flow and we will fix the country. Mr. Minister, the problem is really very serious and you should have priorities. When it comes to, I say again, the Maritsa East complex is the energy heart of the country, where electricity is produced, there are hundreds of thousands of citizens working. This is an extremely dynamic area and you cannot explain to them that there is no money for them right now. After all, for others who may not be so important, you find funds. The people there feel completely abandoned when they have come to the despair of protesting. My appeal to you is to focus your efforts on this area and it is this department that I say this for a reason. Maybe you should check how these funds are spent. You may have some money. I'm talking about investments and renovations, but it's not normal, for example, from 240 thousand. lv. 40,000 to go clean the sidewalks and make two or three patches. If the roads once lasted 20 years, now, you know that in two or three years we start repairing the repairs. So our quality is really pretty low. After all, Mr. Minister, people have realized that this year they can't expect anything from you, to hold their teeth, to go around. There are two other bridges that, God forbid, there is an accident, but you clearly and categorically told them that there is no money for them. I think it is necessary for you to reconsider this decision. I hope you have criteria to remove the most pressing sections that need to be repaired, and it is nice to start with major repairs. We will see what will happen with the Tol system in 2020, but ultimately it is not pleasant for people not to feel support from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Minister, please complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoinev! Will rivers of money flow with the toll system? Certainly two and a half to three times larger resources will generate the Road Infrastructure Agency, which will spend and moisture only for the maintenance of the road and for the construction of new ones. You are right that quality spending is a very important priority of ours, not only the quantity as a measure indicator, but also the effect of spending. I never mentioned 2020 about the toll system. Check out, from this high tribune, from media publications, one take me out. 2019 is the middle of our target, our goal and we are chasing it and we will fulfill it. Apart from that, two or three years of holes in the roads after major repairs..................... as they say......................................................... The fact is that I have repeatedly mentioned from this high tribune that our main goal, which will generate the Road Infrastructure Agency, is to remove this vicious practice in the last 30 years to clothe holes. Complete, basic, complete reconstruction of Republican roads. In parallel, we are currently working, and within a month we will propose changes to the Guarantee Regulation of newly built and rehabilitated major reconstructed roads to increase the guarantees so that we do not have excuses and get into situations that you have commented on. I personally believe that within this and next year this process will end much. I will not list all the roads we have planned for 2017 and 2018. We work in Stara Zagora region. I'll just say, you know, Stara Zagora lv.; Chirpan "Simeonovgrad," the alternative to Maritsa Motorway, again in Stara Zagorska and partly in Haskovo region; three lots of our Operational Program. More than 30 million. lv.; the road node of Plovdivitovo is extremely important for 45 days we have built it; the commitment to expand the entrance of Stara Zagora to Trakia Motorway; we are proceeding the plot plans and the decision on construction and on this important section; the repair of the Thrace highway, by the way, you know when it was built, in the post-Rizovo section. We're about to start resetting this precinct. Especially for the Stara Zagora area, our efforts, I dare say, are quite well prioritized. Not only! Both the people of the Northwest need, and North Bulgaria with the highway of Hemus. The tourist flow and tourism on the Black Sea gave us reason not only to force but to actually implement perhaps the most important project for the southern Black Sea coast from Burgas to Sunny Beach. So tens, hundreds are the things we do with our budget limitations. Indeed, the fact is that it is too limited, but as of next year, mid-2019, I am optimistic, we will have a significantly greater resource for all those unseen 30-year roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nikolay Nankov was asked by the MP Stoyan Mirchev. It refers to the construction of Danube Bridge 3 Silistra Here you are, Mr. Mirchev. You have the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I appeal to you with a procedure in the manner of conduct to point out to you that the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Zaharieva is not answering our parliamentary questions. I asked a question at the beginning of March and I'm still waiting for an answer. I have come to an understanding of the institution several times, because at the moment it has an important role in the Bulgarian Presidency, and I have not put a question out of this tribune. Three months, however, not to find time to answer a question, but the problem is not only with me, the problem is with other colleagues - it seems to me that this is not serious because she is, first of all, a Bulgarian minister and has to take care of the Bulgarian interests, and parliamentary control is precisely to put the problems and find their solutions. My request to you and Mrs. Karayancheva to tell her too, as she is not at the moment to pay attention to Minister Zaharieva as soon as possible to find an opportunity to come and answer. To postpone with one, with two, with three weeks is sometimes understandable, but for almost three months you can not find time to come and answer the questions asked, it seems irresponsible and I think it is outrageous. This shows that it has nothing to do with the problems we are putting out of this tribune. This is my procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u127	Mr. Mirchev, of course I will do what is necessary to ensure that Mrs. Zaharieva is present. You have the floor to specify the question to Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Nankov! My question is related to the construction of Danube Bridge 3 in Silistra territory. About a year ago, I asked a question about the current state of the construction of Danube Bridge 3 at Silistra, Cullarash, and the opening of the completed Kainardzha checkpoint for years. To my joy with joint efforts eight months later the Kainardja border crossing was opened and already functioning. The more complex Danube Bridge 3 project remains under Silistra, which, as we commented last time, is of great economic potential and is extremely important for the development of the region. Within the framework of the European Union Strategy for the Danube region, particular attention is paid to improving mobility and connectivity in the region. To recall: in October 2014 between the governments of Bulgaria and Romania was signed a Memorandum of Understanding establishing a Bulgarian-Romanian Working Group on Transport Infrastructure. This group coordinates the activity of reviewing, updating and, if necessary, carrying out project studies, evaluating the necessary investments as well as identifying sources of funding for the construction of new bridge facilities over the Danube River, and one of them is exactly the bridge that we are commenting on. A year ago, it became clear from your reply that this working group did not hold meetings and did not have completed compositions. On the other hand, in your official statement from February this year, you say: I expect, in the context of the Bulgarian Presidency, which is already close to the end of the Council of the European Union, to resume the talks with the Romanian side on the projects of new bridges over the Danube. You add that building a bridge at Silistra Cullarash is in the most advanced phase of projects and funding, which is a joy for the whole region and for me personally. Please answer me: did you initiate a meeting of the task force in question last year? How many meetings were held and what work did they do on the implementation of the Danube Bridge 3 project at Silistra Cullarash? In connection with your statement from February this year, did you take adequate advantage of the Bulgarian Presidency? How specifically and what exactly do you mean that in the most advanced phase of projects and funding is building a bridge at Silistra Cullarash? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev! We have commented that the financial aspect will be discussed in a subsequent phase of complete readiness, after the most advanced phase I will summarize where we are. Improving communication in the Bulgarian-Romanian border zone creates favorable conditions for deepening cooperation in the economic and social sphere. The European Union Strategy for the Danube Region pays particular attention to improving mobility and connectivity in the region. The Lower Danube region faces problems related to ensuring accessibility between areas located outside the designated transport corridors, and the link between these regions and the TEN-T is carried out through road and road connections of the second and third grade. The local community and local authorities in Northeastern Bulgaria are actively seeking support for the construction of new bridge facilities on the Danube River, and in particular at Silistra. The municipality of Silistra together with the municipality of Kuluras works actively to build a bridge facility on the Danube River. The new bridge facility is included in the urban planning plan of the municipality. The construction of a new bridge facility has shown investor interest by several foreign companies. According to Operational Programme The signed Memorandum in October 2014, which you mentioned, for understanding between the governments of Bulgaria and Romania, for carrying out an analysis of the construction of new bridge facilities over the Danube River at Silistra, Culearash, and Nikopol, Tournu Mugurele, is proof of the desire of both countries to improve transport connectivity in the region and increase economic activity. The Memorandum provides for the establishment of a joint working group to coordinate ex ante research activities, technical, topographic and hydrogeological studies, EIAs, to examine the need for rehabilitation, modernisation and development of the bringing transport infrastructure into the territory of both Parties, to explore the possibilities for financing the construction of bridges through concession or through a public private partnership. It should be stressed that the Memorandum does not regulate how the activities assigned to the Working Group will be financed. The main problem for the implementation of projects for the construction of new bridge facilities is related, on the one hand, to providing financing for their construction and, on the other hand, the state and capacity of the leading road infrastructure to future bridge facilities. At this stage, the main sources for financing the road infrastructure in Bulgaria are funds from the European Union and from the state budget. The directions of all three bridges: Nikopol "Turnu Mugurele," Silistra "Kullarash" and Oryahovo "Beckett" do not fall within the scope of the Trans-European Transport Network, which is why their construction cannot be carried out by means of Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" 2010 - 2020 from the Connecting Europe Facility as well. Operational programme "Regions in growth" does not finance construction of bridge facilities, but only rehabilitation activities of the Republican road network of the first, second and third grade. The program for cross-border cooperation INTERREG V-A Romania is with a very limited budget and it is not possible to finance larger projects, in this case bridge facilities. Due to the limited opportunities of public funds for the implementation of these projects, it is necessary to seek funding opportunities through private strategic investors or a public-private partnership, which I mentioned. In this regard, on 2 May 2018, in view of our Presidency, we had a meeting with the Ambassador of Romania in Bulgaria, Ion Gulya, which is about the upcoming visit in June by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Administration of Romania Paul Stanescu. I am convinced that, within the framework of the forthcoming bilateral talks, we will discuss a wide range of topics not only from mutual but also from regional interest, including the future of cohesion policy, the possibilities for developing the regions and building a third bridge over the Danube. Based on what has been achieved by the forthcoming meeting, I sincerely hope to start more active work at international level and to make proposals for the realization of this project, including by establishing a joint company. The most important step we need to take is a company between Bulgaria and Romania in the private sector, which is one of the options for building a third bridge over the Danube. A meeting with the Romanian Deputy Prime Minister is scheduled and will take place on 29 June 2018, where we will discuss the questions I mentioned and which you are asking in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, but he still specifically did not answer my questions. We're basically repeating the question from a year ago. First of all, I want to tell you that there's been a change in real terms. In the Ministry of Economy claim that the construction of the Industrial Zone is at an advanced stage. This alone justifies the construction of such a bridge. I know that we cannot make so much use of European funds, but there are different other ways to find that kind of means. I can't believe it's so complicated for two countries to find funding to build a bridge, given that there are 30 bridges in one Germany at 50 miles [60 km]. Another problem is that in addition to the economic part of the country, there are currently monthly protests in Silistra to build such a bridge because all traffic in heavy goods trucks is passing through the city. Literally from the last hours there is also a traffic accident between a truck and a bicycle, right on the route these trucks are going through. A few months ago, a truck turned, luckily there were no casualties. The situation is very serious both for people's health and from an economic point of view. I noted that this working group, which must be established on the basis of the 2014 Memorandum of Understanding, aims to name the necessary investments that will be needed, but at the same time to identify the source of this funding. Whatever we talk about, I'm going to repeat this task force has to start working. My question was therefore precise, specific: has it already been completed as a composition, have meetings been held? If these meetings are held, what are the results achieved? If they haven't been conducted and this group hasn't started working, why didn't a year after my first question when I asked and when we talked about this working group happened to her? These are the important questions. Everything else we talk about is history and problem, but we don't name the solution, and it's right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, will you complete your answer after further questions? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mirchev! Yes, you are right, absolutely, including what we comment on, are a fact of history and present, we need to talk about the future. My personal opinion is that the interdepartmental task force is not a stumbling block or is not the decisive factor for a bridge to happen. That is why I mentioned the most important factor for me: the state of the future joint project company in the event of successful realization, despite some delay, I will not go back in time to the project for Danube Bridge 2 between Vidin and Calafat. These will also be the details of the talks with the Romanian Deputy Prime Minister on June 29th.. as quickly as possible creation, establishment, filling with the capacity of a future Bulgarian-Romanian company. Why have I always argued that the bridge over the Danube River at Silistra is not in an advanced phase? In 2014 the project was implemented with European funding, apart from the local cross-border programme with abbreviation SPECHEL, which the project gave the structure base. The property base as parcel plans, such as detailed development plans, such as environmental coordination procedures for its future construction. As is said by the Silistra Bridge Cullarash, in other cases we are talking Ruse Gyurgevo, or Oryahovo, Beckett, or Nikopol, Tournu Mugurele, we are at an idea stage at the initial talks stage. Here we already have concrete and real actions. I look forward to the meeting on June 29th, in which, in addition to the system of the project company, the future real intentions of the relevant international financial institutions and companies for the implementation of the project will be considered. In response specifically to your question, as I mentioned, I spent a little more time on where we cannot find funding, but the funding I suppose, as well as the traffic, I will give you a detailed reference that my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Institute for Roads and Bridges, a detailed, pre-project study, I have summarized it in a dozen pages, I can provide you with all of it, is that the traffic proves the vitality, vitality and economic justification of the Danube Bridge project at Silistra Culrash, and from the perspective of its future concessionation. We have really requested interests for him to be dealt with, and you will be notified after the meeting on June 29th. I make a commitment, maybe from this tribune, maybe in a timely meeting with you and representatives of the local public, what are the specific arrangements with the Romanian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is asked by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova, it is about road II-49 Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, MPs! Dear Minister, today's parliamentary control and questions to you are related to the unrepaired roads for more than 30 years. That will be my question, and it concerns road II-49 "Turgovishte" Tutrakan. Dear Minister, by letter from Kamenovo City Hall, I have been informed of a petition concerning the repair of the road section II 49 in the land of Kubrat municipality, which falls within my constituency. Road II-49 "Turgovishte" is a second-class Republican road from the border with the municipality of Razgrad, km 54+883 to the entrance of the city of Kubrat The land of the village of Kamenovo from km 54+883 to km 64 length is 9,117 km. Repair of this section of the road has not been done since before 1989, as you pointed out in the previous answers to parliamentary questions, for more than 30 years. Every year from 1500 to 2000 square meters of mending are made, which are extremely insufficient to maintain the pavement. The whole section is in holes that are difficult to bypass and create road crash conditions and damage motor vehicles that move along the Republican road network. In this regard, and in relation to the above, and an attached letter to this issue by the residents of Kubrat municipality and Kamenovo municipality in particular, please answer me: is this calendar year provided for the rehabilitation of these 9 km road from the land of the village of Kamenovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, please answer the question of the state of the road Targovishte. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Atanasova! In the Agency's investment programme, for 2018, due to a shortage of financial resources, I will now explain why I am saying that the implementation of a major repair of the second-class II-49 section of approximately 9 km long, compromised in the village of Kamenovo, I quote: from km 54+965 to km 63+985. A technical project has been drawn up for the 2011 segment, which is currently not up-to-date. He's being updated by his colleagues right now. The road shall be maintained in accordance with budgetary resources. During the past year in the nine-mile stretch, activities have been carried out to improve drainage. These were the main, partial renovations of the asphalt floor, which you mentioned about the cutting of shrubs and grass vegetation. According to a preliminary expert assessment for the implementation of a comprehensive repair of the section, about 4 million will be needed. $700,000. BGN, because of its extremely serious compromise. These funds are not provided in the API budget at present. Given the social and economic importance of the road section for the region, opportunities will be sought to provide targeted funding from the state budget for its renovation. I also mentioned in the answer to a previous question, we expect in the second half of the year, God forbid, and the budget to be overrun as in the first quarter, to receive additional funds from the national budget. That is why we are currently carrying out a technological project so that we can also include this segment, which will remain the last along the entire direction of road II-49. Last year we repaired Kubrat Tutrakan, this year we placed the last wearing layer of the precinct. Apart from this on road II-49 on the territory of Razgrad district we implement Project of Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". Together we started last year, this year we will find the renovated section. Apart from that, another 20.7 "almost 21 km, in the direction of the territory of Razgrad on road II-49 from km 9+800 to km 11+832 and from km 11+942 to km 30+658. We are currently doing repairs that will be completed within the next three months. So, if we have to figure out, from all the way about 40 km we rehabilitated the entire direction II-49 in the autumn of last year and we will be done by the end of the summer of this year. The good news is, without feeding any unnecessary hopes, as this is a hypothesis, we have similar conversations with our colleagues, with financial resources and an increase in the budget of the Agency's Road Infrastructure. Specific means will be provided for the rehabilitation of these kilometers in the village of Kamenovo, so that Tutrakan can from Kubrat to Targovishte and to the connection with the future Motorway of Hemus to travel on a completely rehabilitated road and not patched up in sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Atanasova for a line, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer, although this time it is not included in the Rehabilitation Program of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2018. Your confidence and the ambition of the government to have over-execution of the budget gives me assurance that there will be additional funds under the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and for such seriously compromised sections funds will be found. Yes, really in Razgrad District during the last year, investments in road infrastructure are significant both under European programmes and with funds provided by the Bulgarian government. I hope that this commitment will be on your mind, and I sincerely hope that not only will we find the rehabilitated path we made together for the first time, but we will be together in the rehabilitation of the II-49 road, and this compromised area with which you were involved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Secretary? There's nothing to add. We are going to ask the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dora Yankova about the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region. Mr. Tsonkov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! More or less 10 years have passed since the first version of the Danube Strategy was drawn up. I would like to first point out some data to illustrate how important the Danube region is for both Bulgaria and the European Union. In this regard, I would mention that it includes 14 countries, nine of which are in the European Union, the others are neighbouring countries falling into this region, and only in Bulgaria this concerns eight districts and 75 municipalities. It can be rude to say that almost all of Northern Bulgaria practically falls into this region. At the same time, the Danube region is also important for another reason, because it is Trans-European Corridor No 7, which is extremely important for the European Union. I say extremely important because of the ten European corridors this is the only one that is a water corridor, and as we know, water transport is the cheapest in the case. Last but not least, it is also a link with the Black Sea, which makes the Danube region linked to the Black Sea, a large macro-region in which it needs a particularly targeted impact by the countries as well as the European Union. This is also an important tourist destination. There are numerous documents related to the need to develop tourism, that this is an attractive tourist destination and including nine sites that are included in UNESCO, fall into this region of seven architectural and two natural sites. Minister, in this sense, I would like to ask you: what is the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works related to the implementation of the Danube Strategy and what are the specific measures and results of the implementation of the Danube Strategy? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Minister, within this procedure you have five minutes to respond. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I will complete some information about the Danube region. In addition to the 14 countries: 9 Member States of the European Union and 5 outside its scope, it is home to over 100 million people or one fifth of the population of the European Union. Although countries differ in terms of economic stability, the region is highly interconnected and with the possibility of further integration and growth. The Danube Strategy is the second macro-regional strategy, which was officially launched by the European Commission and approved by the European Council in 2011. Cooperation activities in the Danube region are oriented in four pillars: connecting the region, protecting the environment, achieving well-being through security and capacity building and strengthening socio-economic aspects between the countries along the Danube River. Within each pillar, specific cooperation shall focus on certain priority areas, which shall be twelve in total. The National Coordination Mechanism for Implementation of the Strategy is organised in two stages and engages the contributions of different sectoral ministries. Bulgaria through the Ministry of Tourism is co-ordinator The macro-regional strategies, including the Danube Strategy, are based on the principle of the three of them, which suggest not to create new financial instruments, additional structures and new legislation, but to make more effective use of existing mechanisms and financing instruments by applying a coordinated and integrated approach to support actions within the scope of the strategies. Projects contributing to the Danube Strategy shall benefit from different sources of funding: operational programmes, cross-border and transnational cooperation programmes, the Connecting Europe Facility, centrally managed environmental programmes, for example under the LIFE Programme, for competitiveness and small and medium-sized enterprises, and for research and innovation. At national level, the Danube Strategy is reflected in the strategic documents for regional development for the period 2014 - 2020 as well as the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2020" and the National Strategy for Regional Development and the Regional Plans for the Development of the Different Regions in Northern Bulgaria in this case, as well as in the Operational Programmes for the period 2014 - 2020. The objectives of the Strategy are reflected in the territorial cooperation programmes, in particular INTERREG V-A Romania During the 2014-2020 programming period, the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region is receiving the greatest financial support from the Programme for "Dunav" co-operation. The total budget at the first call of the programme is 91.1 million. European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) EUR 9.9 million EUR from the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. 54 project proposals were approved, of which 38 proposals with the participation of 60 Bulgarian partners. So far, a total of 54 contracts have been concluded to provide national co-financing with the Bulgarian beneficiaries. 127 project proposals were submitted on the second call for proposals. In March of this year the Monitoring Committee approved by consensus 22 project proposals, 14 of which with the participation of 17 Bulgarian partners, and one project with leading partner from Bulgaria. There will be contracts to finance these projects from the second call. It should be noted that specific support for projects from the Danube Region is provided under our operational programmes and territorial cooperation programmes through the envisaged opportunity to give priority to projects whose activities contribute to the implementation of the objectives of the Danube Strategy. However, macro-regional strategies should not be limited to funding, as their important contribution is to attracting citizens of different Member States and improving social and economic living conditions through cross-border cooperation. The Danube strategy gives an excellent opportunity to show in practice that the successful European approach to tackling common challenges is that of macro-regional strategies based on strong regional cooperation. The MRB as National Coordinator of the Strategy participates in the meetings of regional councils where its representatives express support for the development of initiatives related to the implementation of the objectives and priorities of the Danube Strategy. In regular meetings with various stakeholders, including the Association of Danube Municipalities, the MRF has encouraged local authorities to exercise activity, to seek their partners from other countries in order to implement joint projects. Thanks to the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region, several projects have been launched or further developed, such as the general plans for rehabilitation and maintenance of the fairway and use of liquefied natural gas for shipping; the creation of networks for nature conservation and the development of common methodologies for assessing and managing natural risk against the background of climate change; the creation of a network for improving security on the Danube River. I can list dozens more. Bulgaria is currently the rotating President of the Danube Strategy. The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, combined with our Presidency of the Danube Strategy, presents a challenge, but also an exceptional opportunity to participate actively in the drafting of the European agenda. It's a unique chance we're taking. I will not list all the events that have expired in the last seven, eight months with regard to the Danube Strategy and the last five months as the rotating President of the Danube Strategy. Our leading event during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Danube Strategy, which is the whole of 2018, will be the Annual Forum and the meeting of the ministers responsible for tourism, which will be organized on 18 October 2018 in Sofia in cooperation with the European Commission. A leading topic will be tourism as a generator of economic growth and a key factor in tackling environmental, socio-economic and demographic challenges in the region. I can talk a lot more, but I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonkov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not particularly satisfied with the answer, rather because the main idea of the Danube Strategy, as developed, is in two directions: The first direction is, of course, territorial cooperation, stimulating it with the aim of economic and social cohesion of all regions and countries falling within this region. Secondly, of course, cultural, trade, economic exchange, which is also to be stimulated in this region, preserving biodiversity. But what we actually see is that in the end the Danube region in Bulgaria remains the poorest, although it is aimed at strengthening the transport infrastructure, strengthening the connectivity between the individual countries that fall into this transport corridor, but the objectives are not met. In this sense, I would like you to answer in particular: what are the visible, real results for the Danube region, especially in Bulgaria, so that we can overcome this large socio-economic deficit that exists in municipalities that fall into the Danube region? How will you benefit from the Presidency of the European Union and the Presidency in 2018 precisely under the Danube Strategy and its implementation in order to implement concrete measures and results in order to improve the conditions in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I will give a little more clarification to answer some of your questions for the second time. Do not expect that the Danube Strategy will solve the problems of inequality between the regions of the European Union or between the regions of Bulgaria. Yes, it may have a global objective of territorial cohesion, reducing differences and disproportion between them, but it will not solve them. It does not contain tools for solving them. I have mentioned the links, in a positive sense, of course, of projects that are implemented under individual financial instruments, operational, cross-border programmes, with the fact that most of them, almost all of them, fulfil the objectives of the Danube Strategy. Of course, this is also a condition for their approval, financing and future realization. With the help of the Strategy, we are working to tackle the challenges and reduce the differences, as you have also mentioned that we are lag behind there. I can give you examples of dozens of projects that are aimed at this particular direction. If we compare development indicators as a gross domestic product, such as levels of employment, respectively unemployment, such as direct investments, national or foreign, we will see that some of the projects contribute precisely to improving the quality of life, reducing the disproportions between the Bulgarian regions along the Danube River and, of course, in the most direct link between those from the Bulgarian and Romanian countries as two countries divided by the Danube River. Among the nine strategic projects implemented under the Strategy, defined by the National Coordinators of the Strategy in 2017, the Bulgarian partners participate in eight of them. It's an extraordinary contribution. In any of the other countries participating in the Strategy, we do not have such a high percentage of nine strategic projects, eight are with the participation of a Bulgarian partner. The projects are: First of all, the FAIRway Danube is a project for a coordinated implementation of the General Plan for Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Danube Road and its navigable tributaries. In your main question, you have turned your attention to improving the transport links and also to shipping along the seventh transport corridor, namely the Danube River. In second place, the Danube Stream......................................................................................................... Again, a project in that direction. In third place, the Energy Barge "green energy and logistics belt, using the potential of green energy derived from biomass along the Danube River. In fourth place, the Danube port networks. In fifth place,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In sixth place, "Dunavski Skills" "Increased institutional capacity in navigation of the Danube River by strengthening joint transnational competences and skills in the field of education and services for society. In seventh place, "CultPlatForm_21" is a Danube cultural platform. These are creative spaces of the 21st century, cultural routes in the Danube region. Extremely successful for us and for our project partners. In the eighth place, "EDU-LAB" "Improving institutional capacity to increase the importance of higher education in the labour market." All these projects, the overall Danube strategy has clearly helped to increase the culture of cooperation, bringing together stakeholders, and also contributing, although minimally, we can still use its potential, for the quality of life and for the better development of regions along its borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tsonkov, you have the opportunity to state your attitude towards the answer received to your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll tell you right now why I'm not satisfied with what I've heard. You speak very nice, wonderful things. I agree that, to a large extent, the Danube Strategy is of a desirable nature. Where is the synchronization of the Danube Strategy as objectives and priorities with the operational programs in Bulgaria? We definitely need a targeted impact in the Danube region, in municipalities, in the areas that fall there to see a real increase in investment in this area, overcoming the huge inequalities that have accumulated between the countries of the Danube region and Bulgaria in particular between the regions. We can thus achieve an increase in quality and standard of living. This means that we need to have targeted investment in the Danube region, including because we are talking about the connectivity of the Danube region and of the countries involved there, I will draw attention to the connectivity of municipalities and settlements throughout the Danube region. I'm saying she's not very good. Technically, engineering infrastructure is in pretty bad shape. Everything you have said about nine strategic projects to call them related to the development of the Danube region, including in Bulgaria, as you say there has been a contribution to this project, does not bring a real result for people to improve the socio-economic conditions. As you use statistics, I would also use it, and if we looked at it, we will see how investments in the Danube region are significantly different and are much lower than in all cities in southern Bulgaria. There is a need for a greater initiative of the Ministry of Regional Development and, of course, in your person as Minister, you are also coordinator of the Danube Strategy in Bulgaria. In this way, we can also achieve real results and, of course, complement with a national mechanism for targeted impact in this region. It is the only way to raise the standard and socio-economic conditions. Most projects are aimed at shipping, and here we are talking about economics, we are talking about tourism, which is very important for this region. We need to pay attention to these things, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u151	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov. It is about the need to build a new road facility, a bridge over the Maritsa river along Republican road III-667 Fruity Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is with exactly the content that you said: the need to build a new road facility The above-mentioned facility of the said Republican road has long been in an alarmingly constructive condition and its operation is severely hampered. In the last few years, the passage of heavy traffic has been limited to twice. In 2012, once up to 12 tonnes, then up to 5 tonnes. It should be borne in mind that this is an extremely busy area. This bridge connects several municipalities by starting from Asenovgrad, Sadovo, Parvomay, crossing the Maritsa River, across the street are Chirpan, Brezovo, Brothers Daskalovi and others. The intensity of motor vehicles is extremely high, regardless of the limitation in the load capacity of the facility. The movement is carried out in one direction, passing by waiting on the opposite movement. I've asked your predecessors, Mr. Minister: what, when will it happen there? At one time, the bridge was in a miserable state, even if a man wouldn't dare walk on it. You could see the bottom and the water of the Maritsa River. After my question in 2015, a major construction of the bridge was carried out. However, so far, it is in an extremely difficult constructive state. I was then answered that plots were being drawn up with the idea of designing a new bridge facility. My question is this: given all the facts and circumstances listed, is the construction planned primarily, of course, and then the construction in the foreseeable future and if planned, when will it happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u153	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you asked me as I informed you in the middle of last year on the question you asked. The Road Infrastructure Agency was planning to build a new bridge facility over the Maritsa River on road III-667 Fruity The technical project for the site has been ready since 2014, updated. I have informed you at present. I also informed you that the site is being handled according to a parcel plan. The plot concerns land properties, agricultural, forest and urbanized territories in the land of the village of Gradina and the town of Parvomay, the municipality of Parvomay. There were agreed opinions of the companies and administrations concerned. During the procedure of the PSU, a parcel plan was found in 2017 to be inconsistent with the ownership of some of the properties affected by the site. This has required the adjustment of the registers to the PSU project as well as the updating of the agreed opinions by the companies and administrations concerned. This, in turn, led to a delay in the procedure for the submission of the draft PSU Preparatory Plan, for consideration and adoption by the National Expert Council on the structure of the territory and regional policy towards the MRF and for carrying out estrangement procedures. In 2017, a Commission decision on agricultural land entered into force at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to establish a design route in agricultural land. The coordination opinions of the companies and administrations concerned are currently being updated. Within the next four months there will be a presentation of the Project of the Preparatory Board for consideration and adoption by the National Expert Council on a structure on the territory and regional policy towards the MRB. Following the approval of the plot of land plan by the Ministry of Interior is expected at the end of 2018, an estrangement was issued by the district governor of Plovdiv. The order will be communicated by district administration Plovdiv individually to each owner, successor of the property concerned, as is the order under the State Property Act. We expect that by the end of 2018 there will be an approved PCC Plot Plan, as well as a final estrangement. Meanwhile, the Agency is in the process of preparing a procedure for the selection of contractor of the construction works, of the construction supervision, and we plan to announce public procurement by June 20th this year, to follow the procedures for the construction plan, alienations, not to delay in time and to trade construction and supervision during it. The indicative value of the construction works is 4 million. 900,000. lv. at the updated prices of the technical project. In the event that the contracting authority's decisions are not appealed, contracts with the selected contractors are expected to be concluded by the end of this year and to begin the preparation of the construction. If we're done with the alienations and the PUP, there's going to be a construction solution, which means it can actually start within this year. Until the construction of the new facility according to the budget funds API will take care to secure the movement on the existing bridge, which you have rightly mentioned, is extremely compromised. We therefore proceed to the construction of an entirely new facility, as the repair of the existing, as we have discussed with you, is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Genov, you will use a line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u156	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Nankov, I can be somewhat satisfied with your response, but I believe that my constituents who live in this area will not be pleased. For years it is necessary, when it is some bigger cargo, you know who rides the larger loads, these are the companies, the people who are doing economic activity, currently around more than 50 km to get through the bridge of Popovitsa or to go along Plovdiv, or to use the connection that Dimitrovgrad has on the highway of Maritsa to go to the corresponding direction. This creates extremely great inconvenience. These are the costs of not talking about the environmental side of the issue. All motor vehicles in some way pollute the air and just please hurry, because a small legend is in the municipality of Parvomay: a few dozen years ago the former Wehrmacht, the Federal Ministry of Defence of Germany, wrote a letter to the owner that the bridge had run out of operation. This happened in the early 1990s. This bridge is built in 1928 and I will ask you: hurry up, because the head of the museum is no longer Mr. Bozidar Dimitrov, but some of his successors should not take it as a museum exhibit before you have built the new bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u157	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. You've been provoked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! The Wehrmacht is not a federal ministry. Ask Mr. Velkov. These are the armed forces not to take the time back, and so am I. It's not the Federal Ministry of Wehrmacht.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u159	Now it's federal...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u160	No, Wehrmacht mentioned, this is something different. I wanted to say something about your partial frustration about your voters, who are also Bulgarian citizens. We try to make the most of our efforts to protect their interest in protecting public interest. Your constituents won't be happy if we don't alienate their properties. They will not be pleased if the parcel plan does not foresee the restoration of land and benefits within real limits. That's exactly what I'm explaining about these procedures right now. Unfortunately, they will slow us down by about five or six months and we will have started construction at present. But isn't the individual interest of the owners of private property no less important than the protection of all public interest? I don't want to go into the hypothesis tomorrow with you and other law enforcement authorities explaining why, you see, we've entered private property without legal grounds. That's why we're taking so long. It is good that you appreciate that we are really putting real, not on fairy tales, not on paper, but real efforts and really extremely important bridge over the Maritsa River and will be built in the interests of the local community, and also of all the people passing the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The time has progressed, but it seems to me that in the remaining minutes, Mr. Antonov, you have a request to include you? Here you go. It's your turn. Mr. Antonov's question concerns the difficult condition of road infrastructure from the Republican road network serving the municipality of Gulyantsi, Pleven. Please, unveil the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, thank you very much for making it a little longer so that we can raise the question. My request is, if there is this possibility, that a little more time should be extended, so that the colleagues who have waited can put their question. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In recent years, I have repeatedly posed the issue of the bad, and at the moment already terrifying, state of road section II-11 of the Municipality of Gulyan, connecting the villages of Milkovitsa, Dolni Wit and Somovit to the branch for the town of Nikopol at the village of Cherkovitsa. At the moment, the entire section is littered with holes and pits, some of which have a diameter of more than 2 m and a depth of more than 50 cm. There are sections where the cover is completely missing. The current state of the road creates prerequisites for the occurrence of road accidents and accidents. This is the hardest route in the country to see, and you could give it as a negative model. This not only creates tension among people living in the roadside settlements, but it is also their only connection with the municipal and district center. Traffic is further burdened by heavy trucks travelling from and to the port of Somovit. Unfortunately, no adequate action has been taken so far by state institutions. And here, it can be concluded that it does not only apply to this cabinet for its management in this term, but also to a number of other mandates. Dear Minister, I ask you to give a partial answer and confirm that there will be action by your ministry, but now is the time, after my question, to specifically tie up the repairs that are to be carried out, with deadlines, with funds and with the technology to which it will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u163	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Antonov! Fact is your commitment on the subject, you have repeatedly asked questions. The fact is also what your colleague Dragomir Stoynov has said, apparently ineffective and without result we are planning road repairs in the Republican road network. This, the second, was a bit ironic because in 2018 and in the budget and in the Road Infrastructure Agency, the development of a technology project began. Not only for the section that you mention, second-class road II-11, we continue to the west, by the way, through Gorni Vadin to Oryahovo. The road is in a tragic state. Maybe it's the worst ever, and Republican time in the country! In a tragic state! This year we have drawn up the technology project, I will commit to specific deadlines. Specially for securing the section of second-class road II-11 between settlements Milkovica, Dolni Wit, Somovit and Cherkovitsa in mid-April 2018, I mentioned, we started the palliative measures, which I myself have repeatedly stated, I do not approve of the pouring of holes, of pits with frenched material, extremely cheap, but also a non-treasurable means, as they say, until the first rain. Thirty-forty years, this is how our roads have been maintained, part of our roads, due to a shortage of financial resources. Given the severe deterioration of the precinct, I mentioned, this measure has had a temporary effect every year. The flooring defects are significant and no improvement of its performance can be achieved with the available means of maintenance. In view of this, the Agency, I mentioned, has provided 4 million with its budget for this year. $800,000. BGN, updated its technical design, prepared on the basis of this technological project and on Monday, I think it is 28 May, started the complete repair of the section. But as I mentioned, not just the one you're asking the question about, but we're going to continue west along second-class road II-11, in the direction of Gorni Vadin and Oryahovo. The segment that you asked a question about is about 11 km long, that 4 million. And 800 thousand. lv. will be directed at it, will be repaired the pavement, complete repair, main events, restoration of travel accessories and repair of a facility, flat watershed, at the end of the village of Somovit. Repair works are planned to be completed within about three months, i.e. June, July and August, so that at the end of the summer season we have a complete repair of the road, as the activities will be carried out without stopping the movement. Due to the lack of a bypass route in this area, we will work with a temporary movement organisation, given the creation of the necessary prerequisites for safe passage through the area. But I mention, on Monday, we begin, and within three months we will complete the repairs in this area, because the renovation will affect a larger mileage and other sections of II-11, by the end of autumn and before the beginning of the autumn-winter season we will rehabilitate a large part of II-11 in the territory of both areas of Pleven and Vratsa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Antonov, you have the opportunity to reply to the response received.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, what you say is encouraging, of course, not for us, but for the people who live in this municipality and in this area. Because colleague Tsonkov just posed the issue of tourism and the absence of connected roads between Danube municipalities. My conclusion from the observations I have, and I'm in this 15th Multiannual District of Plevenski. It's not about tourism, it's about survival of people. We believe that tourism has long been trying to develop it, but in the absence of road infrastructure, as you have confirmed, it is not going to work. I hold very much and will return to this question again in time, because you had a similar question a while ago and we were moving again on the same path, but it was too palliative measures that were taken. The amounts you mentioned today about the 4 million-dollar renovation. 800 BGN, technology and time are encouraging, and I am very much counting on you to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-23.u167	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna get any attitude. In fact, in view of the advanced time that is practically over, but not the questions to you, Mr. Minister, four questions have been left unanswered, so I wish you: "Goodbye! Dear Members of Parliament, with this the daily and weekly work programme of Parliament has been exhausted. I wish you all a bright and sunny Bulgarian holiday on tomorrow! The next parliament meeting is on 30 May 2018, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned.
