ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u1	Good afternoon, everyone! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft decisions on changes to Standing Committees. The importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 11 January 2018, and I propose that he become the first item for Friday, and that the first and second points to be the second and third points for today's meeting respectively. Please vote. They voted 194 MPs: 174, against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the agenda for today's plenary day, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the discussion of a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. The arguments for this, fellow Members, are as follows. In the debates yesterday, we decided to postpone for today the continuation of the discussion of this bill. After yesterday's meeting with long working with colleagues from parliamentary groups, including experts, after checking and the stenogram, we agreed that an additional meeting of the Agricultural Commission was needed to prepare an additional report with regard to paragraphs 30 and 31 with a view to regulating the consequences in relation to the adopted paragraphs 16 and 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm putting to the vote the procedure Mr. Kirilov just proposed. Vote 190 MPs: 186, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We move on to the adopted first item on today's agenda: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES IN THE STANDING COMMITMENTS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ivan Nikolov Mihovski as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Vote 188 MPs: 184, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision is about a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Ivan Nikolov Mihovski as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Radoslava Plamen Chekanska as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 184, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Next, a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 182, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The latest draft decision is about a change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Radoslava Plamen Chekanska as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: 163, against 2, abstention 8. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the point. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPANYING THE ACCOMPANYING OF THE CONVERSION OF 20 DECEMBER 2017 RETURNED FOR A NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAYN No 274 OF 29 DECEMBER 2017 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. About the report, Mr. Kirilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u4	Madam President, Mrs Fikirliyska will present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to make a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Justice........................ Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on the procedure for admission in this Chamber. Vote 190 MPs: 177, against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Fikirli, for the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u6	Madam President, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 274 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 2 January 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017 and the reasons for the Ukhaza. At its meeting held on 10 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 274 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 2 January 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017 and the reasons for the decree. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Uzunov, Secretary for Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption; Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of Legal Affairs, Director of the Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption Agency; Ms. Tanya Karakash, Director of Legal and Normal Activities; Mrs. Mariela Radeva, Chief Expert from the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives, Ms. Neda Grozeva, Expert from the Institute for Market Economics, Mr. Ivan Georgiev, Legal Expert from the Anti-Corruption Fund Foundation. The President of the Commission Mr. Danail Kirilov reported the President's statement and the reasons for it, stating that on the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution the President returns to the National Assembly for a new discussion the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017, challenging it in principle and in its entirety. In his motives, the President points out that the adopted Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property does not create an appropriate legal basis for dealing with corruption and will hamper the fight against it. It is noted that anti-corruption is not limited to the measures referred to in the Law and is not only implemented by the Commission to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property, and beyond the scope of the Law there remain a number of bodies and units with functions in the area of countering corruption. An opinion is made that the listing of the compositions under art. 108, para. 1 of the Law does not comply with the objectives of the adopted Law and with the link between the peculiarities of the individual criminal groups. A positive assessment shall be made of the public procedure established for the designation of the President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission, but as an inappropriate legislative decision shall indicate the required 5-year professional experience for the Vice-President and the members of the Commission, which shall not provide sufficient guarantees for their professional competence. It is also inappropriate to take into account the legislative decision adopted by the Vice-President and the members of the Commission to be elected on a proposal from its President. The Decree contests the lack of judicial review of Commission decisions on the formation and termination of property verification and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, as well as the reduction of regressive liability for damage caused by the actions of the members of the Commission. The reasons for the Decree note that the adopted Law does not provide sufficient guarantees for whistleblowers of corruption and conflict of interest and does not block the possibility of taking adverse action against the person who has given the signal. The President takes into account, as positive, the consolidation of the conflict of interest procedure and the imposition of sanctions, but accepts that the decentralised model for finding conflict of interest is ineffective as it accepts that this model does not provide sufficient guarantees of impartiality for persons establishing conflict of interest. It is noted that the need to refine the rules on declaration, conflict of interest and administrative criminal liability in respect of persons who do not hold senior public positions and it is pointed out that, in the event of an established conflict of interest, the one-year period provided for the non-acceptance of a senior public office will not have a deterrent effect. It is also pointed out that the provisions of Chapter 9 need to be refined, noting the need to align terminology in individual provisions. The question of respect for the principle of proportionality and ensuring guarantees for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the use of special intelligence means is raised. In the reasons, the President considers it imperative that the Commission apply the same methods to determine the value of the property as well as to establish a legal basis to improve the model of management of the confiscated property. Prof. Emilia Drumeva presented the reasons, ensuring that they are prepared responsibly, well-intentioned and through a thorough analysis of legal matter. He pointed out that the arguments in the motives are legal by stating the constitutional grounds and mechanisms for exercising the right to veto the President. Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov noted that during the preparation of the Bill all the opinions and opinions received were discussed and taken into account by stating that the reasons for the Decree do not conform conceptually to the perceived concept of corruption, which is wider and is not limited to the compositions of the Penal Code. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov, Yavor Bojankov, Philip Popov and Dimitar Stoyanov. MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Yavor Bojankov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Pencho Milkov expressed their support for the Ukhaza and the exposed motives. It was expressed that the veto was fully justified by emphasising the unclear content of the concept of corruption, the election of the President of the Commission by the National Assembly, the insufficient powers to carry out an investigative activity, the failure of the Law to achieve the objectives set, the mechanical collection of the bodies in force and the rules of procedure, the lack of protection of the issuing person, the limited regression responsibility of the members of the Commission and the use of special intelligence resources. In addition, it was stated that the listing of the criminal groups in art. 108, para. 1 leads to the Defocusation of the Law. Mr. Bojankov noted that no analysis was made for the subsequent impact of the Law and that the collection of the various bodies would continue this inefficiencies in the fight against corruption. MPs Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Dimitar Lazarov and Hristian Mitev expressed their support to the Law, noting that the list of corruption crimes should not be exhaustive as an inspection under art. 107, para. 2 shall be carried out, except in the cases referred to in Article 2. 108, para. 1 and in the event of a non-compliance of not less than 20 000 BGN, in the event of a conflict of interest established by an act of entry into force, in the event of non-compliance within the period of a declaration under art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 or t. 4 as well as when notified by the administrative punishing authority, where there is an administrative infringement established by an act entered into force, which is of the nature to create a tax of more than 50 000 leva. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that it is precisely the creation of a single anti-corruption body that is the main objective of the Law and the unification of functions that will contribute to the better work of these units, focusing on the necessity, while pre-trial proceedings are ongoing and gathering evidence of the formulation of a particular criminal group, to be able to take all measures provided for in this law, to ensure the possibility of withdrawing the illegally acquired property and thus to protect the public interest. As regards the claim that there are insufficient guarantees in the use and application of special intelligence means, it was noted that in art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Law states that the order for the implementation of operational and search activities and in particular the use of special intelligence means is carried out under the Law on Special Intelligence means and the judiciary exercises control and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in their use. It has also been noted that the responsibility of the members of the Commission is the same in the current article. 17 of the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property and thus ensuring that members' decisions are taken freely from economic pressure. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, 7 votes against the Council and 0 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Fikirliyska. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing the president's veto under the Anti-Corruption Act and the seizure of illegally acquired property. We're talking about it again. However, I hope this time the discussion does not go on as these have so far. This law has been spoken about for several years, and the version we are looking at today has been actively spoken about since the month of August this year. The so-called public discussion took place. You've written a lot, you've spoken a lot, but so what? None of the arguments that were put forward as disturbing in this law were heard. None of them were reflected. Public discussion only makes sense when the parties are ready to hear what they think, and not as an annoying procedure that just needs to pass. Many of the arguments of the veto today have been spoken many times and none have been refuted. However, with the power of the majority, with the power of arithmetic logic, which shows that certain political forces have more than others, the Law is voted exactly as August month was published and presented here from the beginning. What does the president tell us today? He says something simple: this law will not work in the sense that corrupt politicians, corrupt officials and officials and those who corrupt them will continue to enjoy impunity just as they have done so far. This law won't work, and it's clear to everyone. Not a single position outside the ruling coalition, and in the ruling coalition, we had to clarify that there were a lot of nuances in support of this law. Not a single one, not a journalist, not an expert, not a political one! And in that order of thought is worth it, as the veto is in full and in principle, to return to the discussion during the first reading of this law when discussing its concept. Back then, we at BSP were against, as we are today, arguing. Colleagues from the DPS supported the Law, but they had serious concerns about a major part of it. They said they would support this law, but would suggest that it be dropped. Well, she didn't drop out! They continue to support the Law, at least that's what they did in the Legal Commission. Colleagues from the United Patriarchs had dozens of proposals between first and second readings. They supported the Law at first reading, saying that they would make the concerns go away. They offered things that are very reasonable, such as the centralisation of conflict of interest. Practically none of their proposals were accepted and the Law remained the way it was submitted. The law won't work because his logic is wrong, and hence his concept. According to this law, corruption is not a crime. It's more or less, we don't understand feeling, feeling, perception. The fact that corruption in Bulgaria has adopted dimensions such that indeed none of the members of the Penal Code can describe it is a fact, but it is not just a social phenomenon that is somehow so embedded in our lives. If it's a phenomenon, it's pathological. It's a tumor, and the tumor should be cut with a scalpel, not plastered with the badanark. At all, there has been a neglect of the entire debate by the people who are defending this law. Even his defense was kind of half-mouthed. And today the Minister of Justice is not here, I congratulate the Deputy Minister of Justice, who is trying to protect the Law, but that is not enough. We have not heard a clear position, for example, from the deputy prime minister responsible for judicial reform under this law. Somehow shy he is voted only to be voted to be shown to the outside observers and to the Bulgarian citizens that, you see, something is happening here. But just as we were not interested in what the Law said, we were very interested in how exactly this new body would be constituted, because we understand well that it will not affect corruption, but it can affect many other things. This body will be elected by the President and his Vice-Presidents by the National Assembly, understand the majority in it. I do not know exactly what to say to understand that this decision is absolutely inappropriate. This body is said to be independent. Independent of who? Independent of politicians, of course! Where are the politicians? Here in this room. And we will make sure that the new President and all his alternates at any given moment will have to comply with a single majority, naturally, with the ruling majority, in order to continue to carry out its work. I will ask you: imagine that this body was created and a scandal broke out, a discontent over his actions or because of his inaction. And he comes here to decide whether or not he's right. On what basis will we lawmakers judge whether this body was right to act or not? Bury ourselves in the ton of paperwork, in the arguments of one side and the other? We'll check the SRS, see what the case really is? No, it is natural that in this Chamber the only assessment will have the sympathy we have for this President. He will be judged by his loyalty, not by his professionalism. And that's proven in time. Not only will this body not work, it will reverse the institutional framework, as noted in the President's veto, it will most likely interfere instead of helping. And this is clearly explained not only in the President's motives, not only in our speeches so far. This is explained by the conflict of interest, for example in books, studios, was explained to us by the Commission by the people who are working this thing. This was also the position of the United Patriarchs, by the way. With regard to the Commission for the withdrawal of property, two monitoring reports by the European Commission, which in fact led to this haste, explain that the withdrawal of the property is something radically different and that it must be carefully assessed, understand not to do, to infuse this body into the other new one. It is no coincidence that when a single body was first spoken about, a whole strategy was written - the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in Bulgaria in 2015, which said which authorities should be inside. And the ones I'm talking about, especially taking the property, are not in there. Why do we adopt a strategy in April 2015 and do something different in December 2017? I'll tell you, logic is simple. When they decided to create this body, the government began to look at which functioning structure they could attach it now. The Commission for Conflict of Interest, beheaded three years ago after Zlatanov's unfortunate action and functioning for more than a year and a half in incomplete composition, was obviously unable to give the structural base. The other organs are just small directorates in larger ones. So we looked where we thought something was standing. We saw this Commission, we like its composition, we say: "Come there will go to the others." Meanwhile, under public pressure, corruption should be fought on the ground, not by desk officials. And that's why we looked around, we saw a directorate and at the DANS, let's go with one chapter in the Law. A directorate at the DANS, which in 80% of the regulations says what the status of employees will be and is very little apart about what they will do. What it will do is not written for the simple reason that it has nothing to do in such an organ. It won't work, it'll stop, but it can crush! He can crush not only politicians but every Bulgarian citizen. Because of a body that had to be concentrated in the higher levels of power, it became one body that could deal with anyone. And to this day, we have no answer as to how special intelligence and operational information will be used, collected by tracking, infiltrating and whatnot before the Civil Court. Because this body will not set foot in prosecution and in a Criminal Court. He's going to the Civil Court. And by going there and presenting to the civil judge the SRS, I personally can't figure out what proven value this might have. This is inadmissible under the Civil Procedure Code on which this body will work. By the way, I wonder and on what grounds these SRS will be allowed at all, given that it is written in the Law that it will use them, but in the Law on Special Intelligence means, in its article. 3 It is said that such means are used to prevent and detect serious crimes. This body in your image does not deal with such. Then what are they eavesdropping on? This veto was met by many on a knife. Since yesterday and the other day we have seen a tendency to say that, you see, who is against this law is against the fight against corruption. The truth is exactly the opposite. This veto is a chance. Chance, since people are already convinced that it's dust in the eye, that we give a sign that it's not, that we reject this law and write one that will work. We have a chance to come to our senses, and that will be the real signal of political will. The other is demagogy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Just to clarify, Minister Tsacheva cannot be present because he has a meeting with the European commissioners. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Do you give up the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u10	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u11	- What's the line? I can't see. We continue with speeches. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! I will start with the words of Professor Emilia Drumeva, who were quoted today in the report before you, namely that the reasons in the veto are legal, not political. I will add by myself that the right is a complex system that contains rules of conduct that can work if they are, however, well arranged. Bulgarian citizens refer to corruption as a major negative phenomenon, as a reason for the failures of both our country and each of the people we meet for our personal difficulties. However, this law is not, in my opinion, the solution to this problem that our fellow citizens have formulated as a fundamental one for society. I'm going to go with three arguments that I see, why it's not such a solution. Already in the initial provisions of each law indicate its scope, its principal positions. The same is true in this case, where in art. 1, t. 1, the first words of this law are that it contains measures to counter corruption. That means all measures to prevent corruption. And those are his first words. Thus, those who passed the Law claim that this law would fight corruption. This is confirmed by two texts below, where after nine points of order of action, the tenth is that there are other methods and means, but provided for in this law. Thus, from the very beginning, it has been unwarranted that this is precisely the legal act which contains all measures to counter corruption. Yeah, but it's not like that. Outside the scope of the Law, texts remain for the prosecution of corruption crimes under the Penal Code. The activities of the Supreme Judicial Council within the judiciary remain the special bodies such as the Public Procurement Agency, the Court of Auditors, the State Financial Inspection Agency and their powers which are also related to countering this phenomenon. Thus, the Law does not fully regulate the matter which it claims to govern. And that's not our big problem. The big problem is that this law creates some public expectations. At the same time, it creates legal fragmentation, ambiguity and future problems in its application. Secondly, my second argument is that the essence of corruption as a negative public phenomenon harmful to our society, presented in the Law, does not correspond with international legal acts to which Bulgaria is a country, have entered into force and we should take them into account and implement them. There are several international acts, I have had the opportunity to tell you once that fix corruption exactly as a crime: The Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe, we are party to it, since 2002 is in force for Bulgaria. It does not define corruption, but indicates a number of compositions of specific crimes. It's the same with the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. It has been in force for us since 2003 and is talking about criminalizing corruption. Each State Party shall take appropriate legislative and other measures necessary to declare deliberate acts of crime. The UN Convention against Corruption, which we can quote but do not respect, has been in force for us since 2006. There is no definition, but it is again from its scope that there is talk of committing individual crimes. And very strong here are the arguments of the President in the motives which draws attention to you that even when it comes to the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property and in art. 108 there is a list of specific crimes, a large part of the list of these crimes are not corrupt at all. Apart from that, outside the Law remain compositions of corruption crimes cited in the motives, if you see them, which are not subject to regulation by the Law, which means that if someone commits such corruption crimes existing under our law, this law will not apply to him. My third argument, and last, is as follows: it concerns matters with the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the composition of the members of the Commission and with their early release. The President is scheduled to be elected by us by the country's most political body. It is also about the Vice-President and the members of the same majority. Any next majority in this National Assembly, with 48 Members of Parliament, may initiate a procedure and, by simple majority, by a majority of those present, make changes to that body. We elect members of other bodies, such as the Supreme Judicial Council, but there the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council on a special order and procedure do not influence their activities directly and directly on the rights and interests of citizens, but in a special order and procedure choose the magistrates who apply it and they influence our rights and legitimate interests. So there's no analogy in what we do. The law we are discussing contains rules, in summary I would like to tell you, which will not help tackle the problem of corruption. A new legislative procedure would give us the opportunity, in a much shorter period, to formulate legal mechanisms that will help us justify the expectations of Bulgarian citizens, to actually help combat and combat this harmful phenomenon, because the legislation of the principle of sample.. error will cost us a very long period of at least one year, in which we will come to the conclusion that the next legal mechanism we adopt is not working. I therefore appeal to support the veto and together to formulate a much better legislative solution. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Obviously, the BSP parliamentary group will support the president's veto. By my calculations, the ruling majority will vote against this veto and the same will be overcome. And so the legal requirement will be met, but as always there is one................................................................................................... And the following is: on the 10th of this month the German TV ARD in one show for Bulgaria says that the corruption deals in 2016 in Bulgaria are a million and 300 thousand. 22 per cent of the population of Bulgaria participated in these corruption transactions. I do not know how they counted them, who established them, but one thing is certain that the problem in Bulgaria is funny to say that it is tall, it is a big problem, it is a cruel problem. Around solving this problem over the years, all political forces have united. Differences are in mode of action. I support the President's motives, as well as a large number of those present. But I'd like us to go outside and look at the President's motives to look at this law, because this is extremely important. As is known from philosophy, every reason has its effect and every investigation has its reason. I don't know if there is a person in this Chamber who can tell what are the causes of corruption in Bulgaria. Usually, when we want to solve a question, we need to be aware of the reasons and reasons why we should be told the appropriate measures. No analysis of the causes of corruption in Bulgaria has been conducted so far. Everyone can have their own interpretations, but they don't give us an answer as to why we came this far. The main question for me is with the adoption of a law will we continue the trend of increasing corruption in Bulgaria, or will we be able to bring it into some normal borders? Analyzing the current law, I find that it is fighting against already becoming corrupt crimes, revealing corruption. It does not obstruct corruption itself, does not take preliminary measures. I say all this because for the entry of such a law into force, first of all, you have to eliminate them, neutralize the reasons for committing corruption, and then pursue the perpetrators themselves. I say all this because in the entire criminal justice system in Bulgaria and throughout the world there is one major problem and it is rooted in the fact that they are punished for crimes committed only those who are caught. No one, when they go off to commit a crime, has the conviction that they will be discovered. I'm saying all this and thank you. I expect you to support the president's veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u16	Thank you. Madam President, I request an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u17	Extend group time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is clear that the group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) will support the President's veto, given that there are many differences between the aim, the reasons with which the bill was tabled and the proposed codifying norms in it. We believe that the proposed norms will not meet public expectations, they would even pass on anti-corruption measures. Each bill, apart from the fight as in the case of corruption, should also consider prevention measures, investigative measures and propose concrete measures to combat corruption. What do I mean? The current bill does not propose anything about prevention, the problem has not been defined, the conditions leading to corruption practice have not been addressed. There are no measures proposed to combat these conditions, no mechanisms to control these conditions. I would also say that no monitoring on these conditions is proposed, and I would further develop the topic of monitoring to be by civil organisations that are particularly sensitive to this topic. As regards the investigation, which is totally lacking and explicitly referred to as a lack of the European Commission Monitoring Report, that is to say, a mechanism which should be laid down in the specific law and the authority itself should carry out an investigation. As far as the fight is concerned, I would like to say that this fight is not only fought by this law. On the contrary, it is also governed and must also be governed by a number of other laws, with the fight involving a transparent governance, clear, efficient, easily applicable and synchronised with the rest of the legislation, which this Law is not currently in place. Our bill proposes an authority called the Committee, which is a mechanical collection of other bodies, but the other bodies themselves have not been investigated, no examination of their effectiveness has been made, and especially of their effectiveness, i.e. do these bodies give any result with their actions in the fight against corruption? Because just their mechanical congregation, because they like the members of the committees of the government, will not lead to a fight against corruption. The importer is also trying to establish control over the leadership of this body, as it will be elected by the majority of parliament, which elected the government and the Council of Ministers. There is no way that this body, which will be controlled and, depending on the majority, will exercise control over the government. Here I would also like to further develop my thesis on the competence of the members of this body. In the original project, the requirements were slightly increased until now they have completely dropped out. It is required for Vice-President and members of the higher education body and 5 years of experience in the specialty. In view of the matter to be dealt with, I believe that this magistrate's degree must be closely specialised in order for the Commissioner concerned to be independent, not vice versa, to be dependent on and control by his superior. I would also like to draw attention to the very title of the Law, namely the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I'm sorry, colleagues, but there's no way property can be illegally acquired. In the continental law that we confess, any transaction or contract is on the legal basis, that is, we offer a paradoxical name of the Law. On the other hand, the members of the Commission with their immunity will not be responsible for the actions they are causing in terms of withdrawal, but for the state itself and municipalities, the Law on compensation of the state and municipalities still applies. However, it is not clear why a subjective administrative law of the State, namely the forfeiture of property, must be examined under a pseudo-civil procedure? The other thing I also want to pay attention to is art. No. 104, para. 2 on the use of specialised means without specifying what they will be used for. This will lead to a disproportionate use of special intelligence tools and interference in the privacy of people and in their personal correspondence. The other thing I want to pay attention to is art. 108. There is no regulation that clearly defines the order to issue the act by the President of the Commission. In other words, there is one official victory of the state, there is no order to appeal against either the APC or the PPC. In conclusion, I would like to call on you to reconsider and support the President's veto, because with the proposed bill instead of having a crime and punishment, we will have a crime without punishment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Replies to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the group of the United patriots will vote in favour of the Law and against the veto of the President. Not for anything else, not because we don't respect Mr. Radev very much. On the contrary, my personal attitude towards him is very respectful. I think he grew up a lot as a politician, but I need more. Because if he had come to ask our group, we would have told him exactly which texts in the Law to attack so that we could correct them. Because this law really needs to be done with some texts. But you see here now the European Presidency, the first people of Europe have come, is, how are we not going to take account of a law on corruption? [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the subject of corruption, by the way, we're making pretty big... Yesterday, I said a few words regarding masochism. Stop spitting and stop quoting other people's publications. In the most quoted edition, the Guardian, who has recently caught my ears with him, the article against Bulgaria, is based on the words of the head of the Center for the Study of Democracy Shentov, who has recently crapped his own homeland. Of course, there is a Western newspaper, because these are soros organizations, there is no problem and from there comes this impure stream. "Bulgaria is corrupt and Bulgaria is bad. Stop spitting at yourself. Well, we pass this law, we accept it, there must be some flaws in it, but the president makes the mistake of attacking the entire law, and he doesn't say what's wrong with it. If you had done so, it would have been adopted constructively and functionally and corrected some texts. Now it turns out that he himself is opposed to adopting a law on the fight against corruption. So, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we cut the debate short. Finally, I would just like to say that, for example, now, because here we are thinking about corruption, what exactly corruption is, now that afternoon I intend to give Jean Claude Juncker a bottle of nice Bulgarian brandy, will that be corruption, Madam President, and say... [[Radio.]] So let us not oversold the issue of corruption, let us adopt the Law and move forward. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Replies to Mr. Siderov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, because the Decree has returned the bill to the first reading phase of the Law's spirit and philosophy, I will return to the moment before its submission. I agree with the President's finding in the Decree that the preparation and submission of the bill have been carried out under all the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts public discussions. However, these discussions, colleagues, especially the final ones, did not go according to the usual order as always formal. I say that the last, final public discussion of the Bill, where colleagues were present, passed constructively. Because, remember, there we made our objections, their objections made the Attorney General, the presidents of the security services and some of these objections were accepted and withdrawn from the Law even before its submission. From this signal of constructiveness, I think we can conclude that there is a will and a demand for common consent to fight corruption. Because this constructiveism continued after that in the Legal Commission. We have submitted our proposals. My colleague Zarkov is right that many of them were not accepted, one part were adopted, but at least we tried to make a better bill. Whether the Law has become perfect, whether there are any faults to be ironed, we will see during his action. But I don't take for an argument, I don't take for a serious motive the finding, the announcement from this tribune: This law won't work without giving this bill a chance. Even if one day he works, we go out, we announce: "This law will not work." I do not consider the main motive everywhere is spoken, there is no argument the statement, the statement: You do not have the will to fight corruption. These can't be legal, they're not legal arguments, colleagues. These are the arguments of people who may have had a meeting with people who predict the future, but are not legal arguments. Colleagues in the BSP have extremely good lawyers who have proved it in the Legal Commission and in the Chamber, so I do not accept them using such statements:... The law will not work........................................................................ Nothing legal, nothing legal about it. Let's give the law a chance to work. We are ready again and again to submit proposals if we see that there is a brake somewhere, there are contradictions, but we think we have a Law that can work. Let us have this debate not now, but in a year's time and see what results this law will produce. Why is this law and this body built around the Commission for the revocation of illegally acquired property? Colleagues, from all countries, including outside, are very high estimates of the Commission's activities for the revocation of illegally acquired property. I've heard that from colleagues from BSP. It's just there's a real desire, there's motivation, there's a passion for work, and it's shown by the results that this Commission is giving. Around this Commission, around the backbone of the Bill and the new body around the Commission, I think the Law will work. Let's give the bill a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Any lines to Mr. Hamid's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u24	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, the president's veto was like a last chance to correct your corruption policy. Dear colleagues, if the assessment of external media is under the influence of the Sorosoids, did you say? [[GERB line: "Yes, sorosoids. "]] Yeah, okay. I ask you: 83% of Bulgarian citizens who define corruption as the number one problem of government, are they sorosoids? Eighty percent of the Bulgarian business, which says that public procurements are rigged and prearranged for a single contractor, are they sorosoids? The whole Bulgarian people, who have a feeling of corruption everywhere, are they sorosoids? To solve a problem, first, we have to say that there is and name it. Alas, you don't recognize corruption as a problem. Then how do you decide? I put aside the fact that there were even statements that it wasn't a crime, that we couldn't fight it, because we didn't define it. Well, 28 years everyone's been stealing in this country and we can't fight this theft because there's no definition of corruption. What arguments are these? Are they right, colleagues? Are those legal arguments?! Dear governors, especially GERB, who are silent, surely you have no arguments or want to pass the debate and honourable opposition groups that you will vote with the government, why do we not use the Presidency as a chance to refute all supposedly sorosoid claims that Bulgaria is the most corrupt and poor country?! What kind of speech is that? At the moment there are foreigners here and we will have to take account of a Law on Corruption. It was best to invite the commissioners, the Minister of Justice, and to give them the opportunity to see how Bulgarian statesmen, politicians in parliament are really determined to fight corruption and not to imitate such a struggle. Colleagues, many of us can argue under the Law, details, the SRS Bureau, but one big issue stands and it is a legal argument, colleagues from the DPS. In the Constitution and in the Law there is an iron principle from Roman times to this day and hopefully to be ahead. It is called the separation of authorities and mutual control and this is a constitutional legal argument. There is no such thing in the world.. the power that governs, i.e. a priori in it is corruption, to choose those who will control it. That's why we say it won't work. If someone convinces me that the guy who steals, hiring the guy who controls him, expects this guy, the second one, to put him in jail, well, I can't believe you. That's the problem with this law. Unfortunately, this debate was born in the following way: which group wants to appoint the authority of BSP and the President, or the ruling and other opposition groups who support them. No, that's not the problem, guys. Corruption is a non-party issue. If we'd taken into account our party interest, we'd support you. Tomorrow we can rule, hire our own people, they won't control us, and we'll be fine. We see corruption as a matter of statehood and a non-partisan theme. Today the president is Rumen Radev, tomorrow it will be someone else. Today he manages GERB, tomorrow he will manage BSP. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] We, colleagues, do not make a law for a single mandate. If you view this legislation as a law for your term of office, it is a second government error. We must make lasting legislation and, regardless of who is in the executive power, whose majority is here, who is in the presidential institution, ensure that executive, legislative and presidential powers control each other in order to have the effect of this work. Alas, as I see it, you will miss the last chance to correct our behaviour in terms of fighting corruption. And don't be angry if the beginning of the Presidency and its end are the same, no progress towards fighting corruption. Unfortunately, as Bulgarian politicians and statesmen, the goal that we have, even under this Presidency, to move Bulgaria, to welcome us into Schengen, if you continue like this, we will not be able to implement it, unfortunately. Many governments worked in this direction, from different parties. They don't accept us, not because we haven't met the conditions for a long time, and you and we have worked for it, and colleagues in the center, but because corruption continues to be problem number one and the government continues not to fight it, but to cover it up. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? A statement. Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u26	Just a few points, guys. Sorry. Mrs. Chairman! I tried to make a reference, it may not be accurate, but there is no European country that has a specifically targeted Corruption Act. Only we play this trick and everyone here knows or most of us here know that the law is just one tool in the hands of the people. If you don't put the law in the right hands, it doesn't work. This Corruption Act, if passed, I hope it will be passed if we don't put it in the right hands, if we don't find the right people, it won't move. You all know it without mistake, and it is already a question of who will be appointed there and who will apply this law. Secondly, when dealing with a phenomenon such as corruption, it should be taken into account that the causes are first removed and not the consequences, as has already been said here. However, the reasons cannot be removed because the reasons are in the entire neoliberal system of things - a ruthless, godless, cynical neoliberal system in which money is placed in front of man [[Applause from GERB]] The man after the money, and that's why we can't defeat corruption or, more precisely, we can't eradicate it completely. And that is why all advisers from European countries who talk about fighting corruption say that it cannot be eradicated, but can be severely reduced. I hope so. And thirdly, I would like to say to my colleagues in the Socialist Party: when you leave this platform, not to speak like big, white and pretty people who have never been in government or politics, nothing has been involved. We can recall, for example, as we often recall, how Ivan Kostov was selling BGA for the price of an apartment, how the Triple Coalition sold the Bulgarian Navy to the priceless, the affair "Batko and Bratko" and so on. There are infinitely many examples. Please, have these eyes when you go out on the stand, speak from the position that you are in this whole story. You are not out, you are not angels, you have not been cleansed, no one has forgiven you your sins, and neither have we, of course, but at least not hypocrites in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u27	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Replies to Professor Stanilov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! And I wanted this debate to be different, to hear arguments and positions that, although for five or six months we have been actively discussing each of the elements of this bill, each of the ideas, sound really new, sound original and have not been discussed one way or another back in time. Here I will allow myself to correct some of the speakers who said that the debate started in August on this version of the Bill. No, colleagues, the debate on this version of the bill began in December 2017. If colleagues were then not in the composition of... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u29	2016, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u30	Yes, December 2016, at the final of the Forty-third National Assembly, at the second reading of the Committee on Legal Affairs. At the time, opposition colleagues had representatives in this debate and took part in the debate. I will not enter into an analysis of the structural base, as Mr. Zarkov used, however, that reading the monitoring report is incorrect, as is incorrect and reading much of the legal provisions. This, colleagues, is very disturbing because we know each other, we work together in the Legal Commission and, when a colleague starts with the claim of a legal statement to say strange things, I admit that I'm starting to worry. I'll go back to the President's motives. The President's attempt is to be balanced and objective. I thank Professor Drumeva for accepting the invitation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and presented the President's reasons for the veto. I also appreciate the way, the experience, the desire for criticism to be benevolent and benevolent. I think this is a good approach to becoming a good dialogue. The reasons in the argument.. will not qualify them whether they are political, whether they are legal, what their effect is, when they escalated and whether they escalated on the issue of appointing the body. This issue was escalated exactly in December, just after the elections for President of the Republic of Bulgaria took place. This period and this argument have been linked to the rise of your political request for governance and entry into power. I won't comment on it politically, but we are all parliamentarians at this moment. Please don't underestimate each other, insult each other, and follow the rules. If there are corrupt people here, there is a criminal order in this criminal order for them to be sentenced with an effective sentence. I don't accept that the state's legislative authority is corrupt. This is the place to have an open debate. This is where the opposition is, however small, to have the opportunity to revise. We have preserved this rule in the construction of this organ. You are criticising us that a fifth of the MPs may ask for a replacement of a Member or a President of the Commission, what stronger right for the opposition to exercise control, to present a problem, a question to the public, because, colleagues, here we all agree that everyone is watching us. Every Bulgarian citizen can turn on the TV, turn on the Internet and see if his MP is here, what positions he defends. I'm on my way to veto arguments. The main scope of the Law creates greater fragmentation and ambiguity about the overall institutional framework. Authorities and institutions remain outside the scope. Colleagues, all constitutionally-established bodies that have functional competence to combat crime, including corruption crimes, remain outside the scope. Yes, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria remains outside the scope. Of course, but she's an investigative authority and a state prosecution. The inspectorates in the administration were out of line. Of course they're out of structure because they're administrative internal control units. They perform many functions and our monitoring partners have given us recommendations that we have implemented. We have increased the capacity of the inspectorates in the administration. These inspectors check not only corruption, they check loyalty, they check ethics, they check the grounds for disciplinary responsibility of employees. They are checking everything that the authority has instructed them to check.. It is logical to be outside. In this respect, it is absolutely logical beyond that structure to have the Public Procurement Agency as well as the State Financial Inspection Agency. They are specialised bodies of their own competence. Yes, they identify many facts and circumstances that may point to corruption, but they must remain outside this structure, but in direct coordination, in collaboration with the newly created body, which has methodological functions in terms of their work. The claim of incomplete compositions of colleagues, this was a manipulative statement. This claim does not correspond to what is stated in the Law. If you had said so at second reading in the Commission, we would have accepted the proposal for these four or five compositions. I have invited you many times: Make suggestions! Do you have any suggestions? You didn't make any proposals for these five compositions. What's disturbing is that you don't notice the principle. With regard to the principle of forfeiture of property, we have other common grounds that act regardless of the qualification in respect of the Criminal Chamber, that is the non-compliance of the property. Here I would not agree with the statement of my colleague Baichev, and if we were not in the parliamentary hall, I would be in detail analyzing all the mining grounds under all the laws. It's about acquiring an illegal basis, that is, for owning, for possession, for property acquired in a criminal way. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is controversial to combine the functions of conflict of interest and civil confiscation. Colleagues, this is also one of the great delusions you are trying to impress on society that you see, this body will not be able to do anything. On the contrary, he will do at least three things, and in addition to these three things he can do more things mainly to collect evidence, mainly on Chapter Nine, which clearly worries you greatly. Yes, I will not enter in detail into an analysis of operational and search activities, analytical activities and methodological activity, but I will repeat: what is wrong when the Commission receives a signal sends this signal to the Prosecutor's Office for a criminal investigation, to immediately start checking all other circumstances to verify the property, its compliance, conflict of interest, to collect evidence. Here I will just point out that you are not right at all, but another colleague will talk about the severity, use and evidence of the evidence collected by special intelligence means. There has been a reduction in the criteria for Vice-Presidents and Commissioners. I explained in the Commission why we are in favour of lowering the threshold to five years to level the professional requirements as they are for the members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Communications Regulation Commission. That is, we follow the standard that, at this level of legislative decision, we have given for all committees. Why is it important to be a young person here? To be ambitious in order to be unfulfilled in order to be clean in order to be able to build in this work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u31	When he's not young, he's not clean, is he?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u32	Indeed, to be stubborn. I don't object young to old. I don't object! I'm saying that five years of professional internship is not a disadvantage, they can also be an advantage, but everyone here in a public procedure, with a debate will judge for this person whether this experience is enough specifically and specifically. There is no appeal against the decisions on the initiation, continuation and termination of proceedings on the revocation of unlawful property. Colleagues, I respect professional knowledge, both your and your colleagues from the President's Administration, but it is clear to everyone that these are the intra-administrative acts on the movement of the inspection. Of course they cannot be appealed, they are appealed in final appeal, the result is appealed. If, in the course of the examination itself, these internal organisational acts are being appealed, it means that we do not have a single final inspection, because they will always be appealed in court. [[Noise and lines.]] The Commission's decision to limit the regression of the members of the Commission's liability. I would like to emphasise that the regressive responsibility of the members of the Commission so far is that of the current COMPI, and it is correct to do so. If it is not under the State Responsibility Act, each Commissioner will be threatened in all ways, including through the media, that he is facing extremely negative consequences, that he will be judged to be taken away from him all the property afterwards. In order to be free, to be independent to implement the Law, the Commissioner must have this responsibility and not have a common, complete regression responsibility. I've overdue a lot of time. I won't be able to dwell on seven more groups of arguments from the presidential veto. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u33	You have time, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u34	I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to conclude with only this "the more you repeat the same arguments, and I would say, not particularly justified, I have started to become increasingly convinced that perhaps this law will actually be a powerful tool for solving this serious public, social, legal, political problem. I do not trust your oaths and threats that the Law will not work and I would be happy to be able to evaluate the implementation of this law in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that today, when we reject the President's veto, our country will fulfil a commitment as a recommendation from the European Commission and we will be able to have really clear political will and institutional support for what all those who will work in the fight against corruption will do. For me it is extremely important to know that the Political Party GERB, the forming parliamentary majority, I want to thank all these MPs, who, as the leader of BSP said, are opposition, also concluded that we must have anti-corruption legislation that will improve coordination and interaction between all structures that have worked until now in the fight against corruption. I have always asked myself why, over the past few months, when we started talking again about anticorruption legislation in the forty-fourth parliament, BSP has radically changed its philosophy and protection for the way this body should look and how the appointment of the President should be made. I remember the debates that were in the forty-third parliament. I remember the initial version of the Council of Ministers when the Bill was submitted to the forty-third parliament. You know, then the original option was to appoint the President to be from the Council of Ministers. There was then a very thorough and meaningful debate that took place in the forty-third parliament. You know that the Bill was adopted at first reading and then we all came to the conclusion that, indeed, between first and second reading, these things will be changed. We all stood unanimously behind the idea that the President and the relevant management should be appointed by the Bulgarian Parliament. The BSP was then the biggest defenders because they couldn't think that the presidential institution could appoint this chairman. After the elections in autumn 2016, BSP sharply changed its position when we entered the Forty-fourth Parliament. This is not a systematic approach, this is not a thorough work on bills that have passed in the forty-third Parliament at first reading and we have had a public discussion. I can say that this is the bill, which was most debated both in the Bulgarian society and among the experts who participated in all the expert groups that were made and in the Law Commission of the Forty-third Parliament. I know it has been a very acute debate on the implementation of special intelligence means and whether it is permissible to be in this Anticorruption law. Colleagues, we are talking about the DANS unit, which currently has this competence, we are only talking about the unit that is working against corruption. We immediately ask ourselves the question: 2013 when you formed a majority, it was you from BSP who moved the entire DGBOP and gave investigative functions to the State Agency of National Security. Then, in fact, you have proved that you do not want to fight corruption, even against organised crime, because you know what the European Commission's assessments of everything you have done as a change in the structure and organization of the security system. Colleagues from the BSP, let us really be objective and consistent in what you defended in the forty-third parliament, because in their small part participate these same MPs who were then. What changed your mind in the opposite direction? Let us say that the National Assembly is the biggest guarantor for the appointment of each body, which is within the competence of the discussions and appointments made by the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us remember how it was appreciated by the decision of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be appointed by the Bulgarian Parliament, because you know that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was appointed precisely by the executive authority, and when we made a general decision right here in Parliament, then we actually received good assessments and distanced ourselves from our political influence, which you are constantly talking about, that can be carried out on this anticorruption body. I would like to state categorically that the GERB parliamentary group will reject the veto of the President not because of this practice, which has already been established in the Forty-fourth Parliament, because the President and BSP are just playing on the same team, but we are playing on the team of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]] We will always work, guided only by national interest and the effective fight against organised crime and corruption. Right here, I would like to thank the stated position by the MPs, both from the Volja, as well as from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because they were principled in their assessment and the way in which they participated in the discussion, and we have heard every different opinion, and we have listened to where we can actually make the necessary legislative change that can be in the public interest, and we can actually have broader parliamentary support in the adoption of Bulgaria's legislation, because this means sustainability, this means security and guarantee of fulfilling our commitment as a government for the four-year management mandate that we have today and with the upcoming Presidency that has already begun. When we take into account the results of the Presidency and when we take into account the results of our four-year governance, I am convinced that we will again have a management mandate that will be on GERB. Therefore, Mrs. Ninova, for a long time you will be in opposition, but you will do this as a good enough attempt to gain experience as an opposition, not as a governor. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u38	With the last sentence Mr. Tsvetanov showed why this country is not relying on a justice system, and the sentences are spoken from the stand. Years ago, in the same way you sentenced Bulgarian doctors, for which, dear Bulgarian citizens, you pay everyone today. Because of Mr. Tsvetanov Bulgaria was sentenced in Strasbourg. Today, on your behalf, he gives sentences for who will rule and who will be in opposition. [[Reply.]] Not you, Mr. Tsvetanov, you say that, but the Bulgarian people! [[GERB lines.]] So, if you please, when you speak on behalf of Bulgaria, limit yourself to the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB. In the next elections, only the Bulgarian people will say whether the BSP will remain in opposition or vice versa. Resist from you defining this thing! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement. [[Noise in the room.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! A little more patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! It is no secret to any of you in this Chamber, certainly to the entire Bulgarian people, that the only parliamentary party represented, which has not had its representatives and has no representatives in the high levels of power, is the Political Party. In that sense... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u41	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u42	It's a matter of upbringing, after all. I don't think I've replicated anyone, but you have your responsibility. In this sense, we have a clear conscience and we are absolutely calm and in solving this problem we will take the side of the people, we will act as statesmen, responsible and we will meet the expectations of the Bulgarian people that finally one of those who has ruled and robbed I understand that some of them here are worried, who were ministers or other state and high positions, finally one of those who has robbed Bulgaria, who has condemned the Bulgarian people of hunger and misery by 9 dollars, with 100 leva each. pension, with poor wages, lack of decent health, with bankrupt hospitals, with a failing education at the moment, with a bankrupt culture, a bankrupt sport, some of these people have to bear their responsibility. That is why we will support, we will not vote against the veto of the President, we will not support GERB or anyone else, we will vote for the Anti-Corruption Act with hope, as every ordinary Bulgarian citizen, that there will finally be justice, that someone will finally be responsible in this country and the one who will bear responsibility, to be an edification of the next, who will want to mix in the honeypot. I hope that the majority of the MPs have not been mistaken in the honeypot and with a clear conscience will support the Anticorruption Act. We will hope that it will work and that those who have been pillaged will be where the Bulgarian people expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any lines to Mr. Mareshki's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I re-vote the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property adopted by the National Assembly on 20 December 2017. Vote 222 MPs: 147 against 75 abstentions. [[Applause from GERB.]] The law on countering corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property has been passed. Mr. Kutev, please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u44	Colleagues, I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u45	Please, re-vote procedure. Vote 222 MPs: 146 against 76 abstentions. The law on countering corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property has been re-accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Mr. Bojankov, come in for a negative vote, then Mr. Kutev. [[People's representatives are leaving the Chamber.]] Colleagues, we have another item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u46	Madam President, I must obviously wait for my colleagues to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u47	Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u48	The important people are in the room. Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because in Bulgaria corruption is a systemic problem, deeply rooted and I will not overdo it if I say that this is a state policy. I give a simple example, but the point is deeper: every public procurement in Bulgaria that I have seen is rigged. If we ask in a small town who will win it, we will always find the answer to that. I give another example: a $20 camera in a village was bought for $20,000. lv. No one has any doubt that this money is going up somewhere, and this mayor says, "The job is done." In other words, corruption is not only systemic, it is dressed in power, it is dressed, unfortunately, the scariest thing is that it is dressed in law. Against this we give a corrupt law, which is a sum of other laws, i.e. a legal answer. That is why in Bulgaria we adopt more than 130 laws a year. In 215 years, 4300 laws have been adopted in the UK and in Bulgaria, at this rate we will adopt 19 thousand laws. That's our answer, because it's easier because it's cheaper, it's harmless, and it won't have an effect! Let's give the law a chance, let's give it a ZID next year. Let's give the ZID another year a chance and in a year to make another law, and so we will do it for another five years until the government changes, and so we move forward, and so the Bulgarians will not get the dream fight against corruption, they will not get justice. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Kutev, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u50	For information to the nameless colleagues in the back who are screaming if they want to come here to have names, because there you are nameless to know I didn't vote for. But it's better if you come and speak from here, at least we'll know who you are, because you can leave the parliament before we know your names. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My fellow Members, I voted against it because, unfortunately, I am convinced that this law will not work. It will not work on many things that we have said, including that you, the majority, cannot appoint the head of this body and he can work against you. This means that in similar situations as we have already had with Mr. Tsvetanov, who is now the head of a parliamentary group, there is no way this thing can work to investigate him. The fact that it will not work will become clear even before the end of the Presidency, i.e. within the term, the political period in which you are looking at the Bulgarian Presidency June 2018 will already be clear that this law does not work. So you will bear the negatives of what you did today, very soon. And even sooner, it will become clear because I want to see how this law will work now, unfortunately, for the man who died a few days ago and for whom all media I do not know if it is, but the media say it is directly related to Borisov and Tsvetanov. If that's the case, I don't know, but I want to see now you, the majority, with this law where this investigation is going, because I'm sure it won't get anywhere, like many other things. The Law will not work for you and in June 2018. In just a few months we will have another conversation, on which you will not be able to explain what you are doing! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Yankov, come in for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because, without political will, legislation cannot be applied, and a new law against the big problem of corruption. So far there have been enough institutions, enough units that should have already had a result of this fight against corruption. I would remind you that Boyko Rashkov of this tribune announced that in the application of special intelligence means under one percent are the demands of applicants for the application of such ones in a corruption investigation. If you have the political will to deal with this problem, you have the last chance to elect the body to be headed on an opposition proposal. It is then that you will reject the accusations that you want to appoint a convenient body to investigate the person who appointed it. That's ridiculous! With this bill you will hardly respond to the shot against the state, as qualified for the attempted murder of a tax officer Prime Minister Borisov, because in any case, when it comes to firing against a high-ranking tax officer, he either fought against corruption or was involved in corruption. Corruption is the one that eats away our society and is the primary reason to have another type of regulation in our society, not enforcement of the law, and institutions to be the guarantor of the enforcement of the laws. This other type of regulation is also with gunshots that are sometimes attempted murder, but we are witnessing that it ends with the murders of our fellow citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW OF OWNITY. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Who's gonna introduce us? Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment Bill of the Property Act, No 702-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. At its meeting held on 10 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Property Act, No 702-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Veselina Terziyska Secretary General, and Mr. Todor Stoyanov Director of State Property Directorate. The bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, who noted that it provides for a continuation of the provisions of § 1 of the Law on Supplement to the Property Act (promise, SG No. 46 of 2006) a period for suspension of the limitation on state and municipal property for another five years with a view to maximum protection of state and public interest. The envisaged extension is necessary due to information provided by the district managers on the need for finalisation of the process of establishment, registration and actuarial of the property by the State and the local government authorities related to the implementation of the measures provided for in the Action Plan to prevent the acquisition of property by property limitation. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Pencho Milkov and Todor Bajchev. Mr. Milkov emphasized that the amendment creates a privilege for the state and municipalities against all other equal entities in civil turnover, namely natural and legal persons. In response to Mr. Milkov's question about the money spent on a cadastral map and register Mrs. Nikolova pointed out that currently there is no specific data, but the same can be further provided. It stressed that 7 million Cadastral Cards were allocated to the preparation of Cadastral Cards as of 2014. BGN, currently covered 36% of the territory of the country. In response to the question asked by Mr. Baychev, Deputy Minister Nikolova replied that an annual monitoring for control of implementation is envisaged. During the discussion the MPs expressed their support for the submitted bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the property law, No 702-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment to the Property Act, No 702-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. The debates are open. Here you are, Mr. Milkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u56	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'll start with a few words that you can take as an introduction. Let's take laws and hope that they work, or give them a chance to work, well, first of all, wrong thinking and twice as wrong talking. The law, as I had the opportunity to tell you, is a strict system of rules, we are here pressing the button "Enter" and the software must work. The law presented to us to amend and supplement today has been passed in 1951 with completely different public and economic relations in the country. In 1989, 1990, 1990, this law was substantially amended, reflecting the new public relations in the country, namely that the state is an equal subject of law, along with each of you and your organizations, citizens. The State and municipalities are public bodies which, however, share their property in equal relations, together with citizens and legal entities. What is offered with this bill? In 2006, the State, realizing that the state and municipalities were threatened to lose their ownership by limitation, adopted a moratorium whereby citizens and legal entities could not acquire by limitation state and municipal property, that is, a privilege created in law. It is therefore limited by a time limit and with obligations of the State and municipalities to take all measures so as not to allow such acquisition by limitation of property municipal and state property. Do you know what measures should have been taken? The State and municipalities had to describe their properties and issue acts of state ownership, an act of municipal property. The State Property Act, the Municipal Property Act, was adopted 1996. More than 20 years ago. And there is still no full activation of state and municipal property. Twenty-two years!? Now, in our motives, it is proposed that we extend this period by five years, with which the state we have fought to be an equal subject of law again creates a privilege for citizens and legal entities. And this time, if the previous extension was for three, now we admit that we can't do it in three, and by five years we extend the deadline. And you know what the main argument is? That another state institution, such as the Cadastral, did not form a scheme for the whole country. Thirty-six percent of the country has been mapped at the moment in the Cadasta. The question here is: before the existence of the Cadastre, how did the state individualize its properties? She's individualized them by the old identification numbers. And like each of you living in an area without a cadastral map, making a deal and taking a sketch, he individualizes them by the old numbers, that is, even this argument is untenable. I will support the Bill because, although it shows the powerlessness and failure to fulfil obligations for 22 years, if we do not now support it, it is likely that the state and municipalities will lose property. But my sincere hope is that not five years, which we are giving at the moment, but much sooner the measures will be taken not only to describe and map the properties of state and municipal property, but to actually be used and protected by the state and municipalities. I will allow myself to conclude with the words of the last one who spoke and supported the previous bill by paraphrasing them a little bit: today, by supporting this bill, our country will not fulfill its commitment for another five years. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Any lines to Mr. Milkov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I am voting for first reading Draft Law amending the Property Act, No 702 01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u58	Madam President, honourable Members, in view of the debate at first reading, in view of the content of this bill amending the Property Act, I am making a procedural proposal to move to a second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u59	Is there going to be a reverse procedure? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. Vote 148 MPs: 143 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on Property is amended as follows: § 1. In § 1, para. 1 of the Law for Supplement to the Law on Property (prom., SG No. 46 of 2006; amended, No. 105 of 2006, p. 113, 2007, p. 109, 2008, p. 105 of 2011 and No. 107, 2014) the words "31 December 2017" shall be replaced by "31 December 2022."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u61	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and § 1. They voted 140 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u62	"Concluding provision' § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 31 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-01-12.u63	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name to the vote and § 2. Vote 138 MPs: 130 against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've exhausted today's agenda with this. Due to the ministers' commitment to meetings with the representatives of the European Commission, we will not have parliamentary control today. The next parliamentary control will be next Friday at 9.00 until all questions to the ministers are exhausted. Thank you for your work today. Regular plenary session on 17 January, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
