ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for July 25, 2018: 1. Hearing of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the course of preparation of legislative changes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for guaranteeing the rights of disabled people. Importers svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, on 24 July 2018 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers. "Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs, on 1 June 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 22 June 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers - Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, on 12 July 2018 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 9 July 2018. 5. Draft decision to take action to reach an agreement in Case COMP/B1/AT.39849 Importers "Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov, on 16 July 2018. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 21 June 2018 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. Exporters "Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs, on 6 July 2018. Adopted at first vote on 20 July 2018. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importers supposed Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, on 29 June 2018. Adopted at first vote on 18 July 2018. 9. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act. Importers supposed Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, on 20 June 2018. Adopted at the first vote on 5 July 2018. 10. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers.. Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, on 22 May 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 20 June 2018. 11. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 4 June 2018 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importers supplied by Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs, on 13 July 2018. 13. Parliamentary control. Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 173 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zarkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code be the first item for Thursday. My motives for this are as follows: after much work in a working group and the Legal Committee have reached consensus on the several paragraphs that constitute this law. It will not take much parliamentary time for it to be adopted, and its effects will immediately be felt for citizens and for our entire judiciary. Moreover, it contains a provision which must enter into force on 3 September this year. You understand that this provision would be null and void if we did not adopt the Law this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. If there were representatives of your parliamentary group of the Conference of Presidents, just to clarify that we agreed that this agenda would be exhausted by the end of this week. I'll put your procedure to the vote. Do you have a reverse procedure? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Zarkov, with all due respect to you, tomorrow's first point is football hooliganism. So I suggest, if you propose, let the first point remain football hooliganism, and then the second point be yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u5	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u6	Colleagues, just to make it clear that the program will be exhausted. Do you still support your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u7	Not if it's going to be exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u8	Yes, it will be exhausted, even with the fact that tomorrow afternoon we will have extended working hours. That's what we agreed on at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u9	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u10	He's withdrawing his offer, Mr. Zarkov. I'm going to introduce you to draft and draft laws: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2017. . 20 July 2018 Importer is the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria was submitted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Control of Security Services and the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport. A Report on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors in 2017. A Reporter is the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: On 20 July 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2020. No 853-16-9 from the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints has received information on the Commission's activities for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2018. The information has been sent to the Members of the National Assembly and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 20 July 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 July 2018 to 25 July 2020. Of a kind used on motor vehicles of heading 8724-00-10 and with an inside diameter of less than 5 mm No 824-00-11 was received by the National Assembly: an audit report with the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the budgetary expenditure of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017; an audit report with the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent respectively to the Budget and Finance Commission and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF TRUDA AND THE SOCIAL POLICY OF FOUNDATION 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE HOUSE OF THE SUBSTITUTION OF LEGISLATION CHANGES FROM THE MINISTRY OF TRUD AND THE SOCIAL POLICY FOR ARRANGEMENT OF PEOPLE'S RIGHTS WITH CONVECTIONS. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 24 July 2018: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the course of the preparation of legislative changes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 hearings to be included as point 1 for 25 July 2018 in the National Assembly Programme. Here you are, Mrs. Dobreva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! The regulation of the rights of people with disabilities is among the stated priorities set out in the government's programme. The reason for today's hearing is the tension on the subject in the last month and the growing expectations of society...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u12	Mrs. Dobreva, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats and be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u13	...to propose and adopt legislative solutions to reform the policies for disabled people to provide them with opportunities for a more complete and independent life. At the beginning of June, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov informed that the Ministry is actively working on preparing a new law for people with disabilities, which seeks to improve the overall process of integration of people with disabilities. According to the information presented at the time, a whole new type of social assessment will be signed in this law, which will conform to the individual needs of disabled people. The aim is to achieve an individual approach and an adequate assessment of the most appropriate type of support, consistent with individual needs and opportunities for the integration of people with disabilities, which will enable them to lead an independent life. Dear Minister, in view of the approaching deadline of the working group for drafting the texts of the new law, which is 31 July 2018, we consider it appropriate to acquaint the National Assembly with the progress of the preparation of legislative changes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dobreva. Mr. Minister, please inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me first of all thank you for the opportunity to present to the National Assembly information on the progress of the preparation of legislative changes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to guarantee the rights of disabled people. There is no doubt that this topic is at the centre of public interest as a result of a series of protests by disabled organisations against the current system and policies for disabled people. Most of the demands for reforms in the policies related to people with disabilities are not new and have their reasons in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Bulgaria in 2012. In recent weeks and months, we have seen escalating and ultimativity of requests bordering on anarchism and sharp oppositions within the disabled, making it very difficult to find generally acceptable solutions. Guaranteeing the rights of disabled people is one of the main priorities in the government's management programme. Since his first day, we have been making efforts to implement this top priority. Allow me very briefly to mark the measures taken by the current government to support people with disabilities. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2018 and the funds for the implementation of policies for people with disabilities have been increased by 81 million. 400,000. lv. More than 43% compared to 2017, which allowed ensuring the sustainability of services in the home environment, a personal social assistant and increasing financial support for people with disabilities through higher amounts of so-called integration supplements, which for the first time in the last ten years have been increased as a result of the increase in guaranteed minimum income. Through the amendments adopted by the Council of Ministers in March and entered into force from the middle of this year in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, the mechanism for the payment of the targeted aid for the development, purchase and repair of aids, devices and medical devices for people with disabilities was changed. For the first time since the mid-1990s, the list of medical devices with three new positions has been supplemented and the size of the targeted aid for individual medical devices has been updated in the so-called limit order for better purpose, effective financial management and control. In January of this year, the government adopted the first three-year plan to implement the National Strategy for Long-term Care, with the implementation of which 100 new social services for adults are revealed, aimed primarily at adults with different forms of disability. For 2018, funding for social services delegated by the State by 19.5 million has been increased. The total amount of the loans amounted to 230 million. 900,000. lv. A methodology for individual assessment of the needs of disabled people was adopted in 2017. The actions and measures implemented within the existing legal framework in the area of policy for the integration of people with disabilities are a clear expression of the government's leadership and, in particular, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's consistent policy in support of people with disabilities. Expectations and demands for serious reforms in policies for people with disabilities cannot, however, be realised without legislative changes. Therefore, the MCC has submitted to the National Assembly in October last year the Concept for the introduction of expertise on workability with the understanding that from there it should be started because the assessment of disability and the assessment of workability are key for access to rights. Unfortunately, this concept did not receive unambiguous support in its discussion in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health on 22 February this year, and the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities saw in this concept a threat to the withdrawal of disability rights and came out of a national protest on 11 April this year. In this situation, the government gave priority to the reform of medical expertise, on a proposal from the Minister of Health and with long debates with stakeholders last week, the Council of Ministers adopted important amendments to the Rules on the structure and operation of the TelK committees and the regional files of medical expertise, as well as the Regulation on medical expertise aimed at a more objective and fair medical assessment of disability. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy prepared a draft for a new Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy, which has been submitted to the Council of Ministers and is likely to be approved at today's or the next meeting, and which aims to improve access to employment and training of persons from vulnerable groups, including mainly for people with disabilities. In the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the second plan, which has horizon 2015 - 2020, in February this year the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy formed an Interdepartmental Working Group for the elaboration of a Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law for Persons with Disabilities with a term of work until 30 June. The composition of the working group includes a wide range of representatives of the institutions and NGOs involved in the policy and integration of people with disabilities. In response to the demands of protesting mothers and with the belief that nothing should happen to people with disabilities without their participation, representatives of protesting mothers were invited and included in the working group in mid-May, and the task grew into drafting a new Law for people with disabilities and the deadline was extended until 31 July. Unfortunately, at the previous meeting of the Working Group, representatives of mothers of children and disabled persons declared leaving the Working Group. This was also the reason I came to the tent before the National Assembly yesterday to appeal for their return to the working group, because the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are to sign legal changes that have the support of all people with disabilities. In the new Draft Law are described the functions of coordinating mechanism and independent monitoring and inclusion of civil participation in the monitoring process in accordance with the requirements of art. 33 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In order to carry out the functions of promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the establishment of a Monitoring Board is also envisaged. A new type of assessment of the individual needs of disabled persons is also envisaged and this assessment establishes the type of support needed for the disabled person and sets out in the individual assessment the type, intensity and form of social support that the disabled person will benefit from. The Draft Law on Persons with Disabilities lays down the regulation of financial support depending on the needs of people with disabilities established in the individual assessment, with the financial support consisting of two In the draft Law is also written the right of people with disabilities to personal assistance, according to their individual needs established in the assessment. In order to ensure the employment of disabled people in the Draft Law, measures are also proposed to regulate employers' responsibilities to appoint people with permanent disabilities. One of the most important areas of the Bill is the provision of an accessible environment and specific provisions regarding accessibility, reasonable facilities and personal mobility are described in the draft act. The aim is for disabled people to have equal access to the physical environment of living, transport, information and communications, including information and communication systems and technologies, and to all other facilities and services for public service, both in urban and rural areas. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is making maximum efforts to reach agreement in the Working Group on the texts of the Draft within the regulated deadline of 31 July. This will allow, as a next step, the preparation of an overall assessment of the impact of the Bill, a month-long public consultation and inter-agency coordination, and in view of the necessary technological time, it is realistic that the bill should be approved by the Council of Ministers and entered the National Assembly at the earliest in the end of September. The other bill on which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy began work in the first month of its inauguration in the new mandate is the Draft Law on Social Services. On 21 June 2017, on the public consultation portal of the Council of Ministers and on the website of the Ministry was published for public consultation and consultation document on the concept of the Project of the Law on Social Services. It is true that this consultation document was very much developed in the previous term, but it did not meet the support of stakeholders and as a result of the acute reaction of NGOs things did not start from the very beginning and in September a new working group was established to develop a draft Social Services Act with more than 90 participants, of which the majority are representatives of organizations outside the public sector, with a preface of NGOs. On 31 January this year, a roadmap for conducting the consultation process in the development of the Law was established. In February were summarized all the proposals of the members of the Working Group on Issues and Problem Areas, which should be included in the concept of the Law. On 29 May the draft concept of the Social Services Act was approved by the working group. From June 8th to July 7th, the draft concept was published for public discussion. During the same period, a serious discussion was also held at regional and local level and many proposals and opinions were received, which are extremely useful for the future work on the Bill and will be taken into account. On 17 July, the working group, which has the task of developing the Bill, approved the concept of the Social Services Act. The preparation of the Bill itself has already started and the specific texts of the bill are being developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the support of a small consultation team designated by the different groups of stakeholders. The work on preparing the texts of this bill will continue intensively in August, and the appeal to the working group on my part was the deadline of October 15 for readiness with the bill to be reduced by one month and in mid-September for the working group to have a draft Law on Social Services. In view of the technological procedures for the adoption of the examination and approval by the Council of Ministers of the Draft New Law, such as the Social Services Act, the realistic deadline for the completion of mandatory procedures under the Bill and its submission to the National Assembly is the end of October and the beginning of November this year. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as I see that time is running out, I would like to conclude by thanking the Forty-fourth National Assembly for its commitment to solving the problems of people with disabilities. This topic has been the subject of two debates in plenary on parliamentary questions relating to the policies for people with disabilities, twice a hearing on current issues in the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints, one hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, six issues within the framework of parliamentary control and many issues within the framework of the blitzcontrol in the portfolio committee. We are doing our best to prepare and submit laws in autumn to the National Assembly to implement the desired reform to improve the situation of people with disabilities in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u16	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, you know that under art. 113 debates begin with parliamentary groups asking two questions. We start with the first round of questions. On behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, Mr. Papashimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u17	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! We all know how important and necessary the Social Services Act is. In the last few months, there has also been a lot of tension in society in relation to this topic. In September 2017, you formed a group to develop the Social Services Act and the deadline is 15 October 2018. My question to you, Minister, is: what are the reasons for setting such a long period of time for the development of the Social Services Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u18	Thank you, Dr. Papasimov. Come in, Mr. Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Papasimov, really the time limit for the work of a working group, which exceeds one year, seems too long. When this deadline was set, the proposal of a large part of the working group, which was formed in September last year, should have sufficient time to run an open consultation process on this bill and the individual deadlines for the individual stages of the work, as I mentioned, are scheduled in a roadmap which was approved in January this year. I stress that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is, for the first time, conducting such an open advisory broad process to discuss the various stages of the preparation of a legislative act. In this regard, I would like to say that during the months of April and May, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy organised six discussions on various topics by the Social Services Bill with the participation of stakeholders, and as I underlined in my speech, the Conception project was also publicly consulted within one month, including with the involvement of regional managers and regional structures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, including with the participation of users of social services. We believe that this longer period, which, once again, I emphasise, I have appealed to the working group to be shortened at its final stage, will lead to a higher quality of the final product of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u20	Thank you, dear Minister. Next question? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This hearing of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, requested by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs from the ruling majority, would be a good action to calm the protesters, who, by the way, are increasing each day. It would be a good undertaking to inform the public about the progress of the preparation of legislative changes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to guarantee the rights of disabled people in accordance with the requirements of protesters. However, when this hearing is triggered by the ruling majority, allow me to question the intentions and motives. I didn't lie! You're trying to brag and make it look normal. It's not the amount of work you've done that matters, it's the quality of it and how many problems these people have solved. Now just to remind you that in the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities under point 1. 4 The implementation of changes in the regulations, preparation of draft legislative acts by portfolio ministries and adoption of changes in implementation of the concept under art. 19 of the Convention concerning independent life and inclusion in the community. This whole thing must be expressed in the development of a Draft Law on Social Services and the adoption of this special law accordingly. The deadline was 2016. We are now the second half of 2018. So there is no place for praise, but rather need remorse and quick action by the Ministry. The questions, Mr. Minister. In the process of working in working groups, can you ultimately say the final versions of the two laws on which you are working, the Law on people with disabilities and the Law on social services, to what extent will they reflect and represent in practice the objectives of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, namely to promote and ensure the full and equal exercise of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by people with disabilities and to promote respect for their inherent human dignity? What is the place of personal assistance in these laws? Will these two laws lead to a sustainable change in understanding and policies for people with disabilities? Will they have the approval of all interested parties? Why did some of the participants in the working groups leave work on the bills in question? On 16 July protesting mothers of children announced that they were leaving the task force. Interested parties are expected to submit proposals and comments on the main directions referred to in the Concept, as well as proposals for additional issues that should be addressed in the future Social Services Act. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Madam President. How many such proposals have you received officially, in writing and from which organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u23	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! Indeed, the Action Plan on the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities contains actions and measures, deadlines and responsible institutions. You quoted an unfulfilled measure regarding the Social Services Bill. In the National Assembly we submitted a Report on the implementation of the Action Plan. I would say that another measure, which is planned with a duration of 2020, namely the development of a new Law for people with disabilities, has been withdrawn and is being prepared in 2018. You asked a few questions, I will try to answer them all, to each of them. What is leading in the preparation of the Draft Law on Persons with Disabilities is compliance with our legislation with the principles and guaranteeing the rights in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Bulgaria ratified in 2012. As is known, the existing Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2005, long before the Convention was ratified, and there is no way to meet its requirements. The Action Plan provides that each member of the Convention should have a conceptual understanding and then be signed as legislative texts. It is highlighted, and this is leading, as well as leading, as stated in art. 19 of the Concept regarding the inclusion of disabled people in the community and their right of access to various types of services, including personal assistance. The Law on Persons with Disabilities drafts the right to personal assistance under certain conditions, and the Law on Social Services Project will list the way it is provided as one of the many social services that this bill will need to frame. We seek and endeavour to receive the support of all organisations of people with disabilities both nationally representative and those not represented at the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. I expressed my regret that mothers' representatives left the working group at the last meeting, but we will provide the draft of texts prepared as a result of the discussions, and we hope to have their support in the end, unless their motives are otherwise, which I am beginning to doubt. With regard to the discussion of the Conception Project for the Social Services Act, we have received numerous, dozens of.. I cannot be precise in numbers, opinions and proposals in practice from all areas where public discussions have been held, 93 pages I have memorized, was the agreeable table. All this was provided to the task force. The Project of the Concept and the version approved by the working group included some of these proposals. I hope I have answered your questions fully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u24	Thank you, dear Minister. Next question? Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u25	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Minister Petkov! Firstly, I would like to say that, in my opinion, I also said in the Commission, to confirm it in the plenary room, Minister Petkov sits in the hottest chair in the Council of Ministers. It is subjected to a triple canonada once by the opposition, which has the legal right, the second time by the protesting mothers and the third time by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, which has relevant legislative initiatives sometimes. However, in the situation of this canonada, which I mentioned just now, we need to consider something very important. Even the three important laws, which currently works the administration of the Ministry of Bisser Petkov, to accept them, as they say, tomorrow and at second reading the day after tomorrow, if possible, they concern serious finances which we have not anticipated in the middle of the budget year. Mrs. Stoyanova looks at me interestingly at this moment, because in order to pass these laws, all this needs to be provided for in the new budget. There must be a very serious difference from the budget for this year to the budget for next year, because the problem of the mothers outside you are looking at is mainly financial. I'm just making a note. For the former first group of employees, because people understand it better, or the rates between 90 and 100% plus the chaperones, these mothers outside received until the child turned 18, BGN 930. monthly pension. After this child is no longer a child and 18 years of age, the monthly income falls by 700 BGN. and the pension becomes BGN 230, and the child remains in a wheelchair, the problems remain, they are not solved purely medically because most of these diagnoses, unfortunately, are simply not being treated today. This puts these families in very difficult conditions...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u26	The question, Dr. Popovski?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u27	Yeah, just give me a second to finish. This puts them in a very difficult financial situation. My question to Minister Biser Petkov is: at what stage is the process of concluding the Bilateral agreement on regulating labour migration with Moldova and when it is expected to begin its implementation in view of the labor shortage announced by employers in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u28	Thank you, dear Doctor Popovski. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr Popovski! In response to your question, I inform you that the Labour Migration Regulation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Moldova was signed in June in Sofia by the Minister of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Moldova and myself, by the Bulgarian Government. It was approved by the Council of Ministers and by the Bulgarian State the procedures for its adoption have been completed. We expect diplomatic confirmation that these procedures have been completed by Moldova and then automatically enters into force. What is particularly and positively, I can say in this agreement is that the administrative procedures for the application of the Agreement are included in its text and therefore the need to negotiate a separate administrative agreement on the application of the Agreement is removed. Once confirmed accordingly that it has been adopted by both countries, it will be possible to apply immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u30	Thank you, dear Minister. Procedure? Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u31	Madam President, have you rightly admitted during the debate on people with disabilities a question about the Agreement with Moldova? But a question that has nothing to do with it! Have the questions about people with disabilities been exhausted, so it turns out that now, in the context of this debate, we also need to clear up the issues with the Agreement with Moldova? Well, that's cynical, I apologize. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u32	We'll continue with the following questions. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u33	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are worried about the growing tensions on the topic "Policies for people with disabilities." Proof of this is the intention of representatives of the National Council for Integration for people with disabilities to reveal a new palace camp. Clear are the positions of all sides. The position of the mothers of children with disabilities is clear. They want to pass the Personal Aid Act. The position of representatives of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities is also clear. They want the two laws to be passed, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is currently preparing: the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Social Services. The Ombudsman of the Republic proposes that, within the autumn session of the National Assembly, all three laws should be dealt with in a package. From this point of view, it is extremely important for me to hear the position of the ruling majority. You have just stated the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it is the official position, obviously, but it is extremely important for me to hear the position of the ruling majority, which also includes the financial framework. At this stage, it is clear that in the Multiannual Financial Framework, the funds for the policies for people with disabilities are the same ones that are in this year, of which 68 million are for assistant services and another 152 million for integration supplements. If in the three-year budget forecast there is no additional financial resource for the new policies that are scheduled in the three bills, it is obvious that there is no way for the working group to move forward on the adoption of the Law. In this sense, my first question is: is there an official position supported by the Minister of Finance for the projects that you are preparing? My second question is: do you think that mechanisms can be found to achieve consensus? In my opinion, there is something that brings together all these different opinions, and that is the desire for reform. I conclude with this, Madam President, that the desire for reform must go through the restoration of the dialogue without dialogue there is no way to accept any changes in legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u34	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Ademov, the proposed policies and measures for people with disabilities have their financial terms and it must be taken into account. In answer to the first question you are asking, I would like to emphasise that the finance minister is familiar with the proposals discussed in the working group for financial support for disabled people, which suggest additional funds to those already allocated and provided for in the three-year budgetary framework. With regard to the submitted Personal Aid Bill, which I can say is, to some extent, also a reason for this division, which has been obtained because it proposes a solution to the problem of some of the disabled people with the involvement of a huge budget resource, one of the reasons and reservations for its non-support at this time is that it represents an empty check that needs to be signed because it provides for duty-free personal assistance. What we actually foresee in the two bills is continuing to ensure the sustainability of assistant services with budget funding, but within limits that the state can afford and for which there will be funding sustainability. It is unacceptable to have a mistake, to make promises that cannot be financially provided in the future, because, as we all know in this House, when a right is granted, especially a social right, it cannot be brought back and taken back. In the estimates we make, we also provide for an infusion of some of the payments under the insurance system, which, however, have a non-serving but socially supportive nature. As you know, these are the quarters of social disability pensions that are paid to 350 000 disabled people and their release has been suspended since the beginning of 2016, social disability pensions that are not based on a social contribution and which are consolidated with one additional resource could be felt by people with disabilities to a greater extent and actually help them in their needs, related precisely to compensation for what their disability takes. In this direction, we are looking for the support of the Ministry of Finance. As you know, this is difficult. With regard to your other question, I can say that all our actions are led by restoring dialogue where it is taking place, not in the meadow, but in the halls and getting support for all people with disabilities, that is, to see in this bill something that will meet their interests and be additional support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Axieva, the Parliamentary Group of Volya.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u37	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Because of the really high expectations of society to solve these problems, as well as the severe protests of the mothers of children with disabilities, I would like to ask: what place did you find and to what extent is the service a personal assistant in the changes prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the Law on People with Disabilities and the Law on Social Services? Moreover, you and your experts took part in the preparation of the Personal Aid Act, which was initiated by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Association of the Republic of Bulgaria kills us and was recognized by the Political Party Volya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, the assistant service or more generally the services in the home environment are still being provided to people with disabilities, but their funding until last year was on a project basis with funds from the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." For the first time in 2018, the scope and funding from the state budget were maintained. We accept that, in fact, assistant services need permanent regulation and sustainable financing, and that is why we are working to settle personal assistance as a right in the Law on Disabled Persons, which can be exercised as an assistant service, that is, the use of a professional assistant service or as monetary assistance, because it is not realistic to expect that those around 80 000 disabled people with a foreign aid supplement that would also be potential users can be provided to any personal assistant. It is simply not realistic to assume that it will provide the situation and the labour market in Bulgaria. There must therefore be a certain flexibility and this is one of the differences compared to what was proposed in the Personal Aid Bill. The regulation of assistant support as a kind of social service, in our view, is in the Social Services Bill, where to write down who can be the provider of this service, what it is, how to finance it accordingly, how to carry out the choice of assistant, and we fully support the principle in the Personal Aid Bill that the person with the disability itself must be the leader of the individual with regard to his personal assistant. That is what I can say in response to your question, Mrs. Axieva. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u40	Thank you, dear Minister. We start with the second round of questions. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u41	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is this: what actions and measures have been taken so far to ensure the social protection of disabled people during the coming heating season against the backdrop of the new electricity prices? Yes, such measures and actions are necessary in order to ensure a more dignified life and a better existence for people with disabilities. I hope that such actions have so far, Mr Minister, I ask you to provide information to the Members of the National Assembly on how, how and by what criteria these people will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, people with disabilities are one of the target groups of social assistance that receive different types of social benefits, including the so-called target heating aid. Specifically, with regard to the changes in the target heating aid, firstly, I would like to say that the ministry's efforts by changing the relevant regulation which regulates this target aid are not to allow dropping out of the circle of persons who have access to this target aid, which is very important for people with disabilities, for lonely elderly people and so on, and all target groups who receive it. This is achieved by an annual adjustment of the so-called coefficient, which takes into account the annual indexing of the pensions that are received. This year, as a result of the increase in the guaranteed minimum income, which is the basis for the so-called differentiated guaranteed minimum income, wider access for disabled people and other target groups to this aid is ensured. The campaign for applications for this assistance is currently under way. It started from July 1st and should continue until October 31st. We expect more than 200,000 people and families to state the use of this assistance, and its size this year is higher than last year. In particular, it amounts to BGN 374,15. for the entire heating season, which has 9.05 lv. More than last year's size. This takes into account the increased electricity price of 1 July this year, which serves as a basis for determining the amount of this target aid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u44	Thank you, dear Minister. Next question please, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u45	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Since the adoption of the current Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, it was clear that it was rather an inappropriate compromise between provisions on integration and mechanisms for social support and did not fulfil its main functions, namely those laid down in art. 1 relations that govern public relations related to the integration of people with disabilities, and this led to several protests over the years. The now proposed new Law for people with disabilities is an exact answer to one of the latest protests of the mothers of children with disabilities. Now the question is: how new will it be and is it not being prepared in crisis at the last moment, only in response to this protest, and will another temporary cosmetic change of the existing ones be adopted? So a few days ago, we adopted the amendments to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and rather transferred some texts from the Rules of Procedure to the Law on So-called Integration Supplements and they once again remained on the same basis. I just want to make it clear to you: 11 leva per month is this social integration?! The proposed new law must be based on the principle of equal treatment of people with disabilities by creating conditions to compensate for the environment of the individual coefficient of the basic principle in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This can only happen if we offer adequate financial resources, not like the previous one, because otherwise we offer only rights without them being secured. My question to you is: how will the new Law on Disabled Persons reflect the demands of the mothers of disabled children? Will it be consistent with the financial framework for the next three years and, if it is, in what direction? If it's not, what's new?! Where are the demands of the mothers who are still outside the parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. For your answer please come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities, which took place a week ago, was a crisis action. I thank Parliament for supporting this change in response and as a reaction to a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which repealed texts. Even at the hearing in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, I said that our intentions and proposals discussed in the working group are for modernisation, as we have also recorded in the management programme for integration supplements, i.e. the form of support for people with disabilities. You quoted the size it really is 15 or 20%. At 20% is 15 leva. at the current amount of the guaranteed minimum income. Once again, I stress what I said and in response to Dr. Ademov's question that our proposal is that financial support should be consolidated, that it should be bound and based on another reper, on another poverty line, and that it should be primarily aimed at supporting this group of disabled people who cannot work, therefore they rely only on this financial support and are currently underprivileged after they are a minor, because, as has been stressed, the amount of financial support has fallen sharply. This is one of the objectives for financial support to be focused mainly on this group of people with disabilities. With regard to other groups of people with disabilities, also to be linked to the poverty line, an indicator that is determined by methodology and updated annually. To your question, how will the demands of the mothers of disabled children be met, at least what they state as a request for regulated personal assistance, I have already said that both laws provide for this right to be regulated, of course, in line with the possibilities for its financing and, of course, the other emphasis and basic request is an individual assessment of the needs. So in this direction, we also rely on the support and the proposals and the mothers of children and disabled persons so that their demands can really find a place and answer in the Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u48	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, how is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy prepared for the forthcoming protection of the first National Report on the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, Bulgaria ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012 and implemented the first Action Plan for the Implementation of the Concept in the first two years thereafter. The first report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was presented at the end of 2014. Indeed, we are about to defend the first report. The dates set are 3 and 4 September this year before the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Geneva. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as other responsible institutions, are preparing to defend the first report. In fact, I can say that this preparation is already in an advanced phase at the stage of the formation of the national delegation, where there will be representatives not only from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but also from other responsible ministries and departments, so that this first report is indeed protected and that the proposals, recommendations and alternative reports will be heard, which will be important for its further work on implementing the Convention. That is why developing and progressing with a draft new Law on Persons with Disabilities, which applies the principles of this Convention, is very important in order to fulfil our obligations as a State Party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms "Dr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question in general is related to the TELK reform. At the end of last year or rather at the end of October, on a decision of the National Assembly, you introduced the Concept for reforming the system for expertise of performance, which is based on the criteria and principles of the International Classification of Human functionality, disability and health. According to this concept, a methodology for the expertise of workability was to be prepared in 2018. On the other hand, by 2019 changes had to be made to seven laws and four regulations. A discussion was held at the Ministry of Health which led to the adoption of changes to the Regulation on Medical Expertise. My question is: how far have the methodology for the expertise of performance been prepared, on the one hand? On the other hand, I would like to ask the question that people with disabilities most often ask: if it comes to agreeing on the adoption of the reform of the expertise of workability, will the disability pensions of people who are entitled to work be taken away? You have repeatedly answered this question, but I want it to be clearly heard from this tribune that the disability pension is the one that compensates for the functional deficit, and everything else is at the expense of rehabilitation opportunities, sanitarium treatment opportunities, employment market opportunities and work income. If this concept is clear, it is obvious that you can find agreement on these issues. So far, at least I have not heard agreement on the expertise of workability, and therefore my question is: do you think that agreement can be reached between stakeholders regarding the regulation of the expertise of workability?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u54	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, in my introduction I said my understanding that the reform should start from there. Therefore, the first actions that we have taken are a continuation of actions already under way by previous governments, we continue to discuss and seek support for adopting a concept for introducing the expertise of workability. I think there is an agreement that the telk decision, the expert decision of the committees should not be a universal key to all rights. The fact that a person with a disability has a certain functional deficiency does not automatically make it impossible. We know that there are tens of thousands of disabled people who continue to work what they did before the certification and receive disability pensions accordingly. Obviously, what tripped the concept of introducing the expertise of workability was the doubt that it would take rights. I've said before that acquired rights can't be revoked. However, the concept that separates the medical assessment from the expertise of workability must have its role, its implications as to whether the person can work, whether he can do the same work, work at the same workplace, because there is no abstract concept of workability and in such cases determine the rights of that person accordingly. You know that in countries where there is a separate expertise on workability, it is respectively combined with the pension system, in certain cases the retirement pension is for a certain period or is incomplete, taking into account that the pension is a substitute income, a lost income from work and is therefore its primary purpose. Of course, the other important element is that it is also available in other countries before it comes to the granting of a disability pension, as long and costly in terms of the payments of the amount or expenditure concerned, the necessary rehabilitation should be carried out, funding should be provided for this rehabilitation, including labour rehabilitation, i.e. to focus, to ensure, to offer an appropriate workplace that is adapted and to meet the capacity of the disabled person. The concept, as you know, was frozen due to this very sharp resistance by national represented organisations of people with disabilities and the government's actions were mainly aimed at moving the reform of medical expertise, with which reform and change since last week practically improved the assessment of disability. I believe that sooner or later we must return to the subject of introducing the expertise of workability, of course, again on the basis of dialogue in which to discuss all aspects of such action. I trust that at some point this will be supported in order to continue the work which, as you have noted, is currently going along the line of implementation of a project under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It provides for several activities. The first is an official legalized translation of the classification of the World Health Organisation for Disabilities, the functionality of the so-called ICF system. That's already done. The following actions are the development of methodologies for the implementation of this classification in practice. At this stage is the implementation of the project. The implementation of the project is being prepared and public procurement procedures will be announced soon, for the preparation of such methodologies. I think that the implementation of the activities of this project will bring back the topic of introducing the expertise of workability when we have a readiness and methodology on the basis of which to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Axieva, second question from the Volya.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about people with disabilities who are hardworking and able to work, given that employers so far for various reasons avoid hiring people with disabilities. My question is actually: do you foresee in the changes to the two laws mechanisms for solving this problem? Will there be an incentive for employers to hire disabled people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, thank you for the question, because really work integration or employment integration is one of the main areas of integration for people with disabilities. Definitely the situation in the labour market in Bulgaria, which is characterized by an acute shortage of labour force, makes us turn to this reserve, namely the disabled, by stimulating employers to employ people with disabilities. As you know, this is mainly done by various schemes, programs and measures under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and under the National Employment Action Plan. What is discussed in the Working Group on Drafting the Law on Disabilities is both to strengthen employers' incentives to employ disabled people and to adapt the working environment and, accordingly, to strengthen and introduce a quota principle, because, as you know, the Labour Code currently provides for a certain percentage of the statutory staff of employers to be designated for workers and half of that percentage to be determined for disabled people. However, with employers, it is evident that this is not enough to employ disabled people. We believe that incentives and sanctions should be bound in order to motivate employers, to address this reserve in the labour market and at the same time to motivate people with disabilities when they can work and receive income from work. We hope to find support in this step, which has long been discussed, which is working in many other countries relating precisely to a quota principle for people with disabilities with regard to employers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u60	Thank you, dear Minister. This concludes the questions to Minister Petkov. Each parliamentary group, according to the Rules, has the right to express its attitude towards the answers of Minister Petkov. Mr. Sirakov, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Petkov, honourable colleagues! The situation we're in is a changed social environment, we're all reading it. The needs are already quite different from those that were years ago, and we currently need a new model of social services. However, in order to get to this new model of social services, it is not necessary to solve problems in a piece, changing old laws, and this being premature. A new philosophy and new roles of people involved in the processes of providing and using social services are needed. In order to achieve this new model in order to find its implementation, sustainable over time, funded and with good results, it is necessary for all stakeholders to participate actively in the process of drawing up the foundations of this model, and this is legislation. I welcome the efforts of the mothers of disabled children in recent months. I turn to them: let these efforts which they have so far put into this process be directed to the task force and specifically to the change of legislation, because they are the most sensitive group that could give the fine adjustments to the change of laws so that their needs can be met as much as possible. In parallel, there is a need to have a broad debate, but not a debate when we have some draft laws, but during the process itself, in order not to get into a situation to solve some problems, but to damage other groups or to oppose third ones. In order for all of this to happen, it is necessary, first of all, a time, during which precise and careful work is to be done, and at the same time a little more emotional stability, a little more composure, because in this process, in which social models need to be fundamentally changed, it is necessary to hear radically different points of view, to learn to accept the different opinion in cold blood to find the right solution that will work, and it will also be linked to many compromises. In conclusion, I would like to say that, from what has been heard so far, from the questions raised, their answers show that a lot has been done in comparison with the past time, but not in comparison with the needs that people with disabilities and their families currently have. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we from the parliamentary group of GERB support you both you and your experts in the Ministry in the process that is currently under way. We will continue to monitor the workflow and cooperate in order to make progress and find progress, but at the same time we will keep working at a pace so that we can truly congratulate ourselves in the end with results that satisfy the demands of all interested parties. I hope that we will find an understanding of these issues with all colleagues from all parliamentary groups, from all stakeholders, from non-governmental organisations, and we will be able to cool our passions in the summer and focus a little bit more actively on the expert work so that we can begin in the fall with this most important topic of social theme. Thank you, you have our support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u62	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Another attitude? Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I cannot get rid of the impression that the issue specifically for the disabled, which you have to solve at the level at which you can solve it, is a question without an answer. You are now and in the last year trying to solve it and delaying all these laws over time is not an accident. It works because there is a huge knot of problems that at the level of the Ministry of Labour can not actually be solved. You can develop a very professional, which, truely, you are trying to do, a system that models relationships. However, what you can do is not at all up to you whether it becomes a reality or not, for two reasons. The first reason is that this does not depend only on the Ministry of Labour. Apart from the Ministry of Labour, of course, the Ministry of Health, which was mentioned in connection with the Telk or not, is relevant. Of course, the Ministry of Regional Development, which must ensure access to the environment, is relevant. Of course, the Ministry of Education with auxiliary schools or teachers and with how they enter the classrooms and what they study, it is relevant. Of course, the Ministry of Finance is relevant. So all of this means that you don't actually have the opportunity, as Minister, to solve these problems. You can solve only one mechanism, which I hope you will do well, but the end result is not up to you. That is why I think that at the moment colleagues from GERB just put you on the rink, calling you here, because if they wanted to find a solution to the problems, they should have turned this thing to the Prime Minister, and if not Boyko Borisov, in order not to give such a political emphasis to this conversation, here you should have been at least Minister Goranov. Because in just two months, you and I, as we may now be standing on different sides of the barricade, will be of one. If we want to solve the problems of people with disabilities, as has already been said by Mr. Ademov and other colleagues, we will focus on the budget and on what will be provided with it. Then I guarantee you that our talks, even when we have been aggressive, will be in your favor, because someone must finally force the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister to release the money you need. They won't do it, and you in October have the huge opportunity, unfortunately, to turn out to be a fuse. If there is no finance minister here to support what you intend to do, none of your ideas will be realized in the way you write the bills, and you see it. You see that your main problem in these bills is the financial one, now if we assume that you solve the problem correctly with what the mechanisms will be, which also has its problems. This is where I come back to something that sounded before. You see, the problem of mothers and people with disabilities was financial. Guys, this isn't a financial problem. The problem is humanitarian. It is a humanitarian issue that some people in Bulgaria, not a small number, live with 250 BGN. a month. It's not a financial problem, it's a humanitarian problem. This is a question of survival, and this is about... [[GERB's line.]] Why shouldn't I fight? When you decide, I'll praise you, but now I'm gonna scold you a little bit. You're in power, you're the people who have to decide it. Especially you, look at that nice smile. We are talking about people with disabilities and that they live with 250 leva. in a month, you're grinning like I'm not gonna say like what. After all, what should happen from now on until September, October, in my opinion, is to bind the government and personally the Prime Minister. It won't work otherwise, it's not just the Ministry of Labour. That's why we suggested that summer vacation, by the way, be off. Whether it was populism or not, I think it would have been useful for people with disabilities, and it would have taken away much of your responsibility in this case, because it would have transferred it here to parliament, and it would have been much easier for you then to clear the mechanisms. Believe me, everything we have done at BSP all the time has been with the sole purpose of supporting the process for people with disabilities as far as we can. [[GERB's line.]] We've never done anything but this. By the way, we had a lot of other mechanisms to do it if you wanted to do something else. In conclusion, I am convinced that the motives of these people, because you said that you are no longer sure what the motives are, are survival. Be assured that that is why they stand in the tents and are ready to take extreme steps, because they are one of the few groups in Bulgaria where it is a question of survival. This is not a fight for a second color TV or for smaller taxes. It's a struggle for their lives, their children. This fight won't stop just like that. I therefore recommend that the first next session after the vacation be dedicated to this. Whether you will do it, will I try it through the Commission, BSP will challenge it, I do not know, but here should sit the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, along with the Minister of Labour, along with the Minister of Health. In a smaller format, this issue has no solution. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Another attitude? Another parliamentary group? You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for your correct answers not only to my questions, but to everyone else, which is proof that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you and your team are working in terms of the expertise of the problem that we are discussing in a correct manner. It is obvious that only with expert decisions, as has been said just now, this issue cannot be resolved. You have the support of experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, on some of the cases you have the support of the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities, on some of the problems you have the support of the mothers of disabled children, but this support is obviously not enough because in order to be able to solve all the problems of disabled people in a complex, there must be an opportunity for political support. There must also be an opportunity to bear political responsibility. The expert responsibility that you have taken over is, once again, not enough. Why am I saying this? Because it is obvious that some of the problems have radically opposite opinions, radically opposite opinions that cannot be combined on the basis of the expertise that you propose. As correct as she may be, she clearly has different opinions. When there are different opinions on individual issues and when there is no way at expert level to resolve this problem, then the ruling majority takes responsibility and is politically responsible for solving this problem. That is why I would like to call again on the representatives of the ruling majority, the representatives of the government to assume their responsibility. Have you heard the Minister of Finance's opinion on these matters by any chance? I haven't heard such an opinion. Have you by any chance heard the opinion of the deputy prime minister on these matters? There's no such thing as an opinion. We've heard the Prime Minister's opinion. Find an agreement, we are ready to support such an agreement. Unfortunately, there is no such agreement. In such cases, the ruling majority, the National Assembly, if they want to solve this problem, shall assume their responsibility. It is clear that without taking responsibility from the entire Council of Ministers, not only from individual ministers, because this is a horizontal policy, the policy for people with disabilities cannot be resolved by any minister of labour and social policy. There is no way this is going to happen because with the tools that you, your predecessors and those who will come after you, cannot solve this issue that people with disabilities want to be solved. Therefore, my request is the entire Council of Ministers, the ruling majority in August, to take responsibility, to discuss your proposals, to include them in the Financial Framework for next year and to try, at the beginning of the next parliamentary season, to solve in a complex manner, as the Ombudsman of the Republic says, all these issues. Any other solution, any attempt to partially solve the problem will meet the resistance of the various representatives of the disabled. In order for this issue to be resolved, I repeat, and with this I am ending, at least a minimum level of agreement must be sought from an expert point of view and political responsibility must be taken to address this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u66	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Another parliamentary group? Mrs. Axieva from the Parliamentary Group of Volya.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We also want to thank you for the answers to all the questions we have received. They were quite comprehensive and we believe that there is really work to solve the problems of people with disabilities, but we will also join the opinion of the other groups that it is not really only the Social Ministry that can solve these problems, but rather all institutions must unite and work on their solutions. So we also call for stronger work and unification of all, so that we can obtain a working law that also has funding, because without funding this cannot happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. The United Patriarchs? No. That concludes the hearing. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating today. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, we have an announcement. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 25 July 2018 a Decree No 197 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, with which the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted by the National Assembly on 18 July 2018 returns for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Let's continue with: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before we proceed with Part III, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court..................... Mr. Georgi Cholakov, and the Supreme Judge Teodora Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that, since we postponed in the last sitting the discussion of § 103 of the Transitional and Final Provisions because of the wish of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court to take part in this debate, we should proceed with the postponements § 103. Paragraph 103 "Introduction text'. A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova and Evgenia Angelova to cancel § 103. The Commission supports the proposal to dismiss § 103. 1 and does not support it for the removal of § 103. Two and three. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov in two alternative options. The Commission supports the proposal by option two and, by option, one proposal has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The proposals are subject to the possibility. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2.2, and times t. 1, 2.1. and 3 offers are withdrawn. I'll read the unsupported proposal on this. 2.2: "2.2." If the proposal of 2.1 is not accepted, we shall propose in art. 160, para. 6 of the DPC, the number of the DPCs is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, and the number of DPCs to be replaced by the number of DPCs is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, which is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, which is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, which is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, which is to be replaced by the number of DPCs, which is to Proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 103: 1. A new item is created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 3 the words "place of birth of the territorial directorate' shall be replaced by "instead of carrying out the actions'; 2. t. 1 " 3" becomes pcs, respectively. 2... 4.............................................................. 3. create t. 5, 6 and 7: It's five o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187, para. 1, t. 1 The address of the authority under art. 184, para. 1, t. 1 and 2' are replaced by the permanent address or seat of the debtor.' It's six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197, para. 2 the words "place of birth of the territorial directorate whose authority issued it" shall be replaced by the permanent address or seat of the applicant. " "7." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 the words "place of residence of the responsible Head Office" shall be replaced by "the permanent address or seat of the debtor." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 103, which shall become § 72: ................. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160, para. 6 A sentence 2 is created: The decision of the administrative court in cases in which public claims of up to 750 BGN are appealed against by the revision act, which does not include interest accrued for delay, where the revision act is issued to natural persons, and a total amount of up to 4000 BGN, which does not include interest accrued for delay, where the revision act is issued to legal persons, is final. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title after the word "Distribution" shall be added to the title. (b) the creation of para. 4. The State Cassation Appeal Fee shall be determined by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code on a determined material interest in the amount of the public claim established by the revision act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court! So far and for a long time, the audit acts issued by the tax administration can be appealed through the determining authority on its location. This provision was directly applied to the general principle in the Administrative Procedure Code, which is art. 133, which determined the local defendant. This provision has been repeatedly challenged and attacked by citizens, by legal persons, by experts in matter, by magistrates and by all who are related to the tax and insurance process and the Administrative Procedure Code. When importers of the Bill a year ago tabled an amendment to the Law on the part of the Bill to change the principle and the competent court to become the one at the applicant's permanent address or seat, this was met with applause. This was an important moment that was noted by the observers and by all of us as a breakthrough. Why? Everyone knows that the application of the provision as it has so far led and continues to lead to the absurd state in which citizens from all over the country flock to the five major administrative courts in order to challenge their revision. Everyone knows that every time they tried to change this principle, they faced the fierce resistance of the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance. It is a pragmatic argument by the NRA that it should not be rejected but should be heard and refuted. The National Revenue Agency says it will be easier for them to defend their acts, as they have more trained specialists in the major cities where their regional directorates are. However, this does not change the fact that the citizen of Vidin must go to Veliko Tarnovo to appeal his revision act. If it is difficult for the NRA to travel, it is even more difficult for the citizen because the NRA is a specialized administration that does this and we must give it the opportunity to do so and to organise it in a way in which it will be able to perform its duties, but the citizen is involved in this process by accident, for him it is too much effort. We were happy when we saw that proposal. Not only were we ready to support it, we were ready to enrich it, and we made a proposal to establish the principle of revision and to ensure that it applies to other PPC proceedings as well. Given the general philosophy in which the process of changing the Administrative Procedure Code is taking place and which aims, on the one hand, to disarm the Supreme Administrative Court and to create a more equal burden between the administrative courts in the country, I and my colleagues were shocked at how at the last moment this text was rejected, was voted against something by its importers themselves. There is no explanation for such a thing, all the more so that in the meantime we have changed even the general principle. 133, which is the basic principle of local criminality. We have changed it precisely in a direction that supports this proposal. We are now going to make an exception for the NRA, so this will actually be one of the few administrations that will continue to benefit from its procedural advantage. There is no logical explanation for this. I ask that the House, the ruling majority, the members of the Legal Committee take responsibility, explain what this is about and do something that is expected of the Bulgarian community and the expert circles for a long time. We rejected the proposal in this part of it, supported it in another, much more controversial. Because I don't have time to develop it... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm graduating. ...I would like to appeal for the following: we must vote exactly the opposite way the Commission proposes. She proposes to reject the proposal in its section. 1 et c. 3 and support it on t. 2. We need to do the opposite to support him at those points that change local conviction and reject him at that point, which goes beyond the possibility of a cassation appeal on certain grounds. This will be our insistence and I believe that not only the lawyers, but also a large part of the MPs in this Chamber understand the importance of this moment. Please don't miss it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since two minutes wouldn't have been enough for a replica of my colleague Zarkov's speech, I preferred to make a statement, and he will have the opportunity to replicate me, including specifying his proposal for the way to vote. Colleague Zarkov actually said some of the dynamics in the discussions in the leading Legal Committee regarding this proposal. Indeed, the importers, among whom I am, have originally proposed in paragraph 1. 1 to change the conviction to the tax cases at the place or at the applicant's permanent address and seat respectively. We initially proposed this in view of the need to implement a real reform in the redistribution of cases and the workload of judges in administrative justice. The truth is that we relied in this debate to show all the arguments for..... and all the arguments against................................................................................... Colleague Zarkov was right, although he was not a Member of the National Assembly in the previous Legislatures, not for the first time we argued on this issue and decided that the current distribution of jurisdiction in tax matters should be established, i.e. the six administrative courts which were specialized to deal with the disputes on tax matters. You can see how many proposals have been made between first and second readings, you can see, including that I, and colleagues Mitev and Dimitrov have given not one but several proposals that are either alternative to ours, and that of colleague Mitev is in a potential with regard to their point 2.2. I hope in this debate, although repeated, but to develop the arguments of the two parties in dispute. In the vote in the Legal Committee, the lawyers of GERB did not support the proposals of the importer, that is, my proposal, and the symmetrical, similar proposals for changing the conviction. What are the new circumstances in this regard? Since the debate at the second reading was very broad and heated in the Legal Commission, in the last week and before that, I would say specialized, specific debates were held between the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. In this regard, yesterday, I was informed that consensus was reached in the direction of changing the conviction towards all administrative courts, and in the framework of this debate it was also a condition for the Ministry of Finance to enter into force immediately so that, within the middle of the budgetary year, the advantages and mostly the disadvantages could be seen, and if corrective measures were necessary, they would be taken into account and taken for the 2019 budget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Time's up, Mr. Chairman, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u76	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u77	...I want to make an editorial proposal. In this regard, firstly, I am proposing a separate vote on the importer's proposals and to separate the vote on this. 1 by the importer and related proposals. Secondly, I am making a proposal for editing if it is supported by t. 1. by importer, it shall obtain the following type: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: B. The decision referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 155, may be appealed by The case shall be examined by the Administrative Court in whose judicial area is the applicant's permanent address or seat at the time of the first exercise of the tax control action by the revenue authorities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I can't help but express my satisfaction with what's happening. This change is necessary, it must be made. I'm just getting acquainted with the text you're proposing. At the same time, I also regret that we have not been able to do this work in the Commission and we have to discuss it now in a debate that is limited. However, the text seems correct and we will support it. I am using my line to draw attention to a question for which I have no time left, namely the fact that it is proposed by the Commission cases of material interest up to 4 thousand. lv. for legal entities and up to BGN 750 for natural persons not subject to a cassation appeal. I think it's a mistake. This mistake is made again with the argument to unload the Supreme Administrative Court, however, we must take into account that, including this new provision, we are doing a lot to unload the Supreme Administrative Court and we should not save these cases because it is cassation, that is, law is judged, and the law is the same, whether it is 750 BGN or 750 million. If two traders are next to each other and one of them has been imposed a revision act for 900 BGN and the other for 750 BGN, on the same basis, one will have the opportunity to seek his rights and the other will sit and find one injustice. It's not good for anyone. I welcome your proposal on this point. 1. I propose that we reject the proposal on this point. 2 and I also insist that our proposals be voted on, because in addition to the audit proceedings, there are other proceedings in DPKI which must be subject to the same principle of conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u80	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any other lines? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I am also pleased with what you have done here as a procedure. The administrative process, you know, is a sovereign relationship between unequal legal entities. On the one hand stands the state of power, and on the other, of course, are citizens and legal entities. The argument is untenable and I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has also concluded that the State's powerholder should be placed in a more favourable procedural situation in view of local defendants. You are right that this debate was led in previous legislates and then there was perception.. I think in general that the tax cases should be dealt with on a permanent address or the applicant's seat something like what you are proposing at the moment. This is the first step. The next step should have been to make the changes that we have already voted on in the Administrative Procedure Code, again in view of the local conviction, the applicant's permanent, current address or seat. However, what you have said as an argument to make these changes now, because the Ministry of Finance claims that by 2019 conclusions should be drawn for the next budgetary year for the pros and cons of the introduction of this norm, honourable colleague Kirilov, I think that this deadline is too short. It's already going through the middle of this year. The entry into force and the conduct of the cases of local defendants on a permanent, current address or registered office of the applicant, the time limit is too short to really judge the pros [[the President signals that time has run out]] and the minuses of this norm in DODK, of course, respectively in the Administrative Procedure Code. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! It will be a very short line, as I agree with what my colleagues have said before me. It is only in the following direction: the state fees are not the only cost that people make in administrative justice. The journey that we will save them when we appeal to the audit acts will show substantial cost savings for all natural and legal persons, so we are glad that this will ultimately be a fact. However, I would like you to take an attitude perhaps in your duplicate on whether you will ultimately support our proposals, because our proposals refer to texts which, to a much greater extent, concern the need for proceedings to take place on the applicant's behalf. It is about the refusal, postponement, deferral, imposition of precautionary measures and protection against enforcement. It is not necessary, it is not right to mechanically divide the conviction in the appeal of audit acts from the conviction on these three issues that we have proposed. For me, the expectation we have created in people and we are about to realize that local criminality will change, we need to apply it to and to the issues that we have made as a proposal. I also urge my fellow Members to support our proposals for a change of conviction in Articles 187, 197 and 268. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to answer all the questions that my fellow Members have raised in their lines, mainly on the ground. With regard to the attention paid by my colleague Zarkov, that a part of the audit acts which I can call conditionally with minimal interest in property, are not subject to a cassation appeal, I say, firstly, that the interest in which those acts are actually appealed is irrelevant. Although non-essential, the appeal procedure on those acts has undergone one administrative procedure under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) and the second time has passed a judicial appeal, i.e. there has been judicial review in respect of the acts of the administration, specifically of the tax authority. I believe that in this case, indeed, the costs of appeal will be much greater for both parties than the protection of interest, which, I stress, has received twice the revision of administrative and, respectively, judicial control. With regard to the time limit, is it sufficient to assess the application of the new rule for six months? I am sure that the longer term would be, of course, more informative and would give more facts to draw conclusions, but in this case, it is a reference to compliance with the direct damage that will occur for the state budget, for a fissure. Here I recall that we are all obliged to defend the fiscal interest, respectively, of the public administration, and not polarise the allocation of costs in this way. Yes, we can save several leva of travel expenses to the complainant, but this could probably cost much more the costs and expenses of the tax administration, i.e. the general budget. Unfortunately, I have not been able to comment on the proposal of colleague Milkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court! I believe that the proposal made by my colleague Kirilov, albeit under condition, for editing the proposal of the importer under point. 1 in art. 156, para. 1 is correct and I will support it. I will make a few more arguments to the colleagues from BSP who have already spoken. Why should the text of the importer be supported and the version of this text proposed in today's sitting accordingly? It is clear that in the relationship and in the dispute in the DPCC in the tax and audit proceedings, the weaker country is the citizen, respectively the trader concerned, who contests the tax and audit act. It is clear that the stronger country is the administrative body, it clearly has in most cases a much greater resource than the private legal entity. I would not accept the thesis that only and only travel expenses are being saved and I do not think that the state administration, in the face of the respective departments of the National Revenue Agency (NRA) territorial directorate, is being overly burdened with such costs, as it has also been mentioned in the Legal Committee by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court (IAS), and we know that all who practice and appear in such cases that there are, in practice, legal advisors who at least deal with administrative criminal proceedings in any such unit. Thus, the argument that the territorial directorate will always and at any cost have to travel to the relevant administrative court, where the branch of the NRA, which issued the act, is personally irrelevant to me. I therefore believe that in this case we should stand by the citizens' side, the business side. I don't think it's gonna be that big of a blow to the tax administration. Yes, you are! I therefore call on you to support the text of the importer. As regards the setting of relevant thresholds, which block the possibility of cassation contesting the decisions of administrative courts in tax matters, we have made proposals for lower amounts that we maintain. I can't agree with the thesis here that there are two instances going by. Yes, it is a fact that these tax-revisioning acts are actually subject to judicial review, but in most cases the so-called administrative control is formal, it is not real, it is not practical, and it is only before the court that real proceedings are being developed, in which control is to be carried out in respect of the tax-revisioning act issued. So there, yes, indeed there is judicial control, but in no case can we say that it is two instances away. He's in a court of law only and only in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u89	Thank you. Dear colleague Mitev, with much of the things you said, I agree, but in practice what is happening here? The Ministry of Finance says it's inconvenient, of course, I hope, a presumption of incompetence. Our branches, our territorial directorates, do not have the necessary capacity, with the necessary personnel collateral, knowledge, experience for lawyers to deal with the relevant revision acts and cases under the DCC. At the same time, the second instance of judicial review is removed, which, on the other hand, if we consider to be true what is claimed in practice by the Ministry of Finance, that they do not have this footage in place when it is admitted to a second instance here in the Supreme Administrative Court, then the Ministry of Finance, the relevant lawyers who are here, on the ground, in Sofia, who are more experienced, will be able to represent the state before the Supreme Administrative Court, which will balance and clear to a large extent this subsumed, in this case by me, and I think that also by the Ministry of Finance, the incompetence of their territorial units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, I kind of agree with you. I believe, indeed, that this presumption of the Ministry of Finance is entirely disputable. Although I do not have statistics, I am convinced that the majority of administrative criminal proceedings are successfully concluded precisely for the tax administration and the NRA, which in fact completely contradicts the thesis that these legal advisers, who are in the divisions of the territorial directorates, do not have the necessary competence. I believe that this argument is entirely untenable. With regard to cassation control, I agree that if we assume that lawyers are not so incompetent, I really believe that this is a rebuttal presumption, but rather that there is no real administrative control in respect of tax audit acts, then such cassation control is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will also support the proposal made, as well as the editorial proposal made in today's meeting by Mr. Kirilov. I find that the norm is in favor of the Bulgarian citizens. The text in force so far was in favour of the tax administration and in no way corresponded with the spirit of the Administrative Procedure Code. They do not support the arguments that we have heard in the Commission against this text that, in some tax administrations, those jurisdictions, where these cases have not been dealt with so far, have been less prepared that they have been incompetent. They have not yet had the opportunity to appear and defend themselves, so there is no way to determine who has been competent and who has not. I know enough people like that, and I can say they're wonderful lawyers. The other argument, colleagues, that, you see, the big business has been exactly in those areas where the courts are now dealing with these acts because, if you see the statistics, let's say, for an area such as the Appeals Region, Varna, where the cases from Dobrich, Shumen, Silistra, Targovishte are being looked at, you will see that two thirds of these cases are outside the Varna district. So they come from Dobrich, from Shumen, from Silistra. So we will support the proposal. Why am I taking the floor? I was provoked by this six-month period, which will assess how this norm works? Dear Mr. Kirilov, I think you have 20 years of practice as a lawyer, as a lawyer, even more than 20. You understand perfectly that in six months there is no way to develop this process, to pass the first instance, to pass the cassation instance, to accumulate enough of such cases and only then to evaluate. How in six months will someone evaluate the norm, not like the results and force us to vote something back? That's untenable. Please don't offer it any further! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor to justify in detail and not in a reply, and to persuade you once again to support our proposals for amendment of jurisdiction in other texts of the Law relating in the same way and in the same way concerning the rights of the citizens of natural and legal persons, as well as the appeal of the audit acts. The refusal to defer and defer, the precautionary measures imposed and the protection against enforcement cannot remain mechanically separated in a different court to deal with the disputes of the contested measures. So even though it wasn't time for my co-worker to take the attitude, I think since they said A, they should say B and finish what we started. With regard to the thresholds for cassation appeal. Colleagues say there was twice an assessment and an opportunity for protection. Yes, but to remind everyone that in the tax process, the first call for assistance is the director of the territorial directorate. This is actually the dispute put forward for you to consider before the same administration that issued the contested act. And the first independent body to deal with the dispute remains the only one in the court, the first and only instance envisions you. Let us remind you that what is happening in the DODK is proposed in 18 laws that the appeal should remain at one instance. That's why we can't support this thing. Are there several leva transport costs? There are several BGN if you appeal from Sofia in Sofia, if you appeal from Vidin in Tarnovo, there are not several BGN Once again, I invite you to support our proposals and to drop the threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I give the floor to Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not go back into the controversy in relation to the fact that there has been a change in local jurisdiction in respect of tax proceedings, because there has been enough arguments today to support what the Supreme Administrative Court's Plenum fully supports, namely such a change to take place so that all applicants who dispute their audit acts would do so in the local, territorial administrative court. The proposal, which was made for editorial change, I find it entirely appropriate because it takes account not only of the interests of the complainants, but also of the interests of the Revenue Agency, because the initial proposal was to appeal at the location and headquarters at the time of the complaint. However, it does not take into account that the entire administrative procedure has passed before the appeal has been lodged and that the taxable person may, accordingly, choose a court by changing its jurisdiction in order for it to be the court which prefers it accordingly. On what was proposed today as an editorial change, the case is examined by the Administrative Court in whose judicial area the first tax insurance control action was carried out. Tax insurance control has two forms: one is verification, the other is the award of tax revision. The norm, as written and proposed at the moment, takes account of the first actual action, which makes the revenue body. That action also nailed the conviction of this proceeding to the relevant administrative court where it began. I will ask you to support this proposal, as has been done, all the more so since the meetings between me and the Minister of Finance have reached an agreement that this is a norm that can be adopted and that it will have action in the future. I will also ask you to comply with the proposals made for the other proceedings under the DODK. If we change the Law accordingly in art. 156, we will foresee a special conviction only in relation to the appeal of audit acts. However, there are four further procedures that are relevant in relation to securing evidence, deferment and deferral of liabilities and others, which, if they are not changed, will remain re-indicted to these five administrative courts. Finally, I would like to thank the legislator for making the first important and substantial change in administrative justice aimed at bringing this justice closer to the people for speedy and quality justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. There were no statements. Let's move on to the vote. We will vote on the proposals not supported by the Commission in the order of their submission. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova and Evgenia Angelova in its unsupported part by the Commission. Please vote! [[Noise and lines.]] I explained and will repeat: I am voting on the proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova and Evgenia Angelova in its unsupported part by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 1 against 53, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov in the unsupported part of the Commission. Please vote! [[Noise and lines.]] You have withdrawn points 1, 2.1 and 3 and, on proposal 2.2, you have not withdrawn and a vote is required. [[Relations of MP Daniel Kirilov away from the microphones.]] I apologize if it's Christian Mitev's. It's coming out to me... [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov in the part not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: for 5, against 48, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not accepted by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the wording of § 103, which becomes § 72. The first item will be voted separately as a text from the second point. I put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the People's Representative Daniel Kirilov in the Chamber on the text of the first paragraph of the new § 72. Did I put it right, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u99	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In this situation, we are voting further on this text of point. 1 because it is not in the text of the Commission, and we make the clarification: the following amendments and additions are made in the Tax Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for points 1 and 2, without editorial corrections. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u101	Dear Mr. President, I make it clear that in this situation, after my proposal for an amendment was adopted, which corresponded with that. 1 by importer, that's t. 1 by importer, but t. 1 was not supported by the Commission, we have now come back in practice to point. 1 by importer with these versions. And I suggest, by adopting my proposal, that my proposal be further voted on along with the Commission's proposal, and so on. 1, which we voted on now, becomes t. 1 and the two points of the Commission become second and third respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You've made your point. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a reverse proposal of my colleague Kirilov's procedural proposal to vote separately points 1, 2 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u104	Actually, we've already voted on one point. Now we're going to vote on it. 1 as amended by the Commission, etc. We will vote on them separately, according to the Commission's version. I have accepted your offer. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of this. 1 of § 103, which becomes § 72. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I'm putting it to the vote now. 2 as proposed by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: for 85, against 56, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. That's how we ended this difficult part, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The next paragraph is § 120.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u106	No, I'm interrupting work for 30 minutes. Time out. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u107	Honourable Members, we are continuing work on the draft discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u108	Under § 120, there is a proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 120: 1. in t. 1, b. In the new content of para. 4 of art. 64 the words "administrative court" shall be replaced by "citizen court" by the order of the Civil Procedure Code. 2. t. 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 120 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u109	Honourable Members, speeches under § 120? Mr. Zarkov withdraws his offer, so I won't put him to the vote at all. We are voting § 120, which the Commission does not support and proposes to reject. Vote 71 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like the floor by procedure in order to clarify the vote on § 103, as my colleagues in the Financial Texts (Final Texts) asked for an explicit clarification. Under § 103, we accepted: Krum Zarkov's proposal and a group of MPs; we accepted Daniel Kirilov's proposal, which I did and specified here from the stand; and we accepted the Commission. 1 et c. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u112	Under § 121, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid in accordance with Article 121. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 121, which shall become § 90: .............................................................................. In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 103 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 4 shall be added at the end, unless the court decides otherwise. 2. The creation of para. 15: The individual administrative acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 may be challenged before a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court on their legality. The Court of Justice shall rule on the action within 40 days of the initiation of the first instance or cassation proceedings concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u113	Honourable Members, speeches under § 121? I can't see. We are voting for the version proposed by the Commission, supporting the text of the importer for § 121, which becomes § 90. 90 MPs voted: 68 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u114	Under § 122, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid in accordance with Article 122. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 122, which shall become § 91: .............................................................................. The law on blood, blood donation and blood transfusions (prom., SG...) makes the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the words the Minister of Health is add a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry; (b) in para. 2 the Minister of Health is added after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 2 after the words the Minister of Health shall be added a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u115	Honourable Members, speeches on your readings § 122? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text for § 122, which becomes § 91. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u116	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 123, which shall become § 92. ................. In the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Minister of Culture shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 words within 14 days of their notification under the Administrative Procedure Code shall be replaced by the administrative court concerned within 14 days of their notification. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 3 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 after the word, the appeal 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74, para. 2 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2, p. 1 after the words the Minister of Culture shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 9 after the word "inquired" shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 after the word "dispute" is added to the relevant administrative court. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116, para. 5 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120, para. 6 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121, para. 3 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130, para. 3 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 157 after the word "Appeal' is added to the relevant administrative court and sentence two is deleted. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 192, para. 2 sentence 2 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u117	Honourable Members, speeches under § 123? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission and the editorials proposed by the Commission itself, and § 123 with the editorials becomes § 92. They voted 98 MPs: 80, none, abstention 18. The paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u118	Under § 124, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 124. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 124, which shall become § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... In the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 in a sentence, first after the words (b) in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Health shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (c) in para. 3 shall be added to the relevant administrative court in accordance with the order of the Administrative Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the Minister of Health shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (b) in para. 2 after the words the Minister of Health shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry; (c) in para. 3 after the words the Minister of Health shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry; (d) in para. 4 shall be added to the administrative court concerned in accordance with the order of the Administrative Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u119	Honourable Members, speeches on the proposal so read? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 124, which becomes § 93, in which the Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the proposals just read by the rapporteur. They voted 109 MPs: 88, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u120	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 125, which shall become § 94: ............................................................................... In the Mediation Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 the Minister of Justice shall be added, or appointed by him, a member of the Ministry; (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the case of an applicant for mediator and the organisation applying to train for mediators, the Minister of Justice or an official appointed by him in the Ministry of Justice shall refuse by order the entry into the Single Register of Mediators, respectively the approval. The order may be appealed under the administrative procedure code before the administrative court concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the Minister of Justice shall be added, after the words, a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry; (b) in para. 4 the Minister of Justice shall be added, or appointed by him, a member of the Ministry; (c) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: When one of the requirements of art. 8, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4, the Minister of Justice or an official designated by him shall issue an order to remove the mediator from the Single Register of Mediators. The order may be appealed under the administrative procedure code before the administrative court concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u121	Honourable Members, speeches under § 125? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, which the Commission supports, with the amendments proposed by the Commission itself, with § 125 becoming § 94. They voted 109 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u122	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 126, which shall become § 95: .................................................................................. In the Law on Mescenity (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 sentence first after the words "the Minister of Culture" is added "or appointed by him a member of the ministry." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the Minister of Culture shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (b) in para. 3 after the words "Administrative procedure' the code shall be added to the administrative court concerned and a sentence shall be created second: "The decision of the administrative court shall not be subject to a cassation appeal.' 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 after the words the Minister of Culture is added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 after the words the Minister of Culture shall be added to the list of a member of the ministry appointed by him; (b) in para. 4 after the words "Administrative procedure' the code shall be added to the administrative court concerned and a sentence shall be created second: "The decision of the administrative court shall not be subject to a cassation appeal.' 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the Minister of Culture shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (b) in para. 2 everywhere after the words the Minister of Culture is added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the words..... or a member of the ministry................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 in para. 1 and 2 shall be added after the words the Minister of Culture and shall be a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the Minister of Culture shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (b) in para. 3 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) in para. 4 the Minister of Culture shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry; (d) in para. 5 the Minister of Culture shall be added after the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (e) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The order under para. 3 of the Minister of Culture or an official appointed by him may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code before the administrative court concerned. The decision of the administrative court is not subject to a cassation appeal. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 after the words the Minister of Culture shall be added to the list of a member of the ministry appointed by him; (b) in para. 2 after the words the Minister of Culture shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u123	Honourable Members, speeches under § 126? I can't see. We move on to its vote, and the Commission supports the text of the importer and makes proposals for editing that have just been read to you, thus with the editorials § 126 becomes § 95. They voted 109 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u124	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 127, which shall become § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 para. 4 is amended as follows: The person in custody shall have the right to appeal the legality of the detention before the regional court at the seat of the authority. The Court of Justice shall rule on the action without delay and its decision shall be subject to a cassation appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code before the administrative court concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Minister of Internal Affairs is added.... or a designated official of the Ministry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 1 after the words the Minister of Internal Affairs is added.... or a designated official of the Ministry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204, p. 1 after the words the Minister of Interior is added or appointed by him an official of the Ministry. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 1, t. 1 after the words the Minister of Interior is added or appointed by him an official of the Ministry. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 211 in a sentence first after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court and a third sentence is created: "The decision of the administrative court on disputes for the imposition of disciplinary penalties under art. 197, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 is not subject to a cassation contest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u125	Honourable Members, speeches under § 127? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer, which the Commission supports with the editorial amendments by the Commission itself for the said § 127, which becomes § 96. They voted 116 MPs: for 92, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u126	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 128, which shall become § 97: "The Bible says: In the Law on Youth (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 27, para. 1 the Minister of Youth and Sports shall be added after the words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u127	Honourable Members, speeches under § 128? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, which is supported by the Commission, by the version by the Commission itself and thus the said § 128 becomes § 97. They voted 105 MPs: 95, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u128	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 129, which shall become § 98: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the National Archive Fund Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 87, para. The second sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u129	Honourable Members, speeches under § 129? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, with the editorials by the Commission itself and thus § 129 becomes § 98. Voted 103 MPs: 86, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u130	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 130, which shall become § 99: ......... 99..................................................................... In the Law on Notary and Notary Activities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 12 4 is amended as The order under para. 3 shall be declared to the candidates for the area concerned and to the Council of Notaries in accordance with art. 18a, para. 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The order can be appealed before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia area according to the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. The fourth sentence is amended as follows: The order shall be communicated to the notary, to the Council of Notaries and to the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office in accordance with art. 18a, para. 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The transfer order may be appealed by the Council of Notaries when the transfer took place in breach of legal requirements. A refusal to move can be appealed by the notary. In such cases, the appeal shall be carried out before the relevant administrative court under the administrative procedure code. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 6 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u131	Honourable Members, speeches under § 130? I can't see. We move on to its vote, and the Commission supports the text of the importer and makes the editorial corrections that have just been read and thus § 130 becomes § 99. Vote 108 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u132	Under § 131, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u133	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u134	Mr. Kirilov withdrew his offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u135	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. The following amendments shall be made in § 131.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u136	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u137	This proposal is also adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u138	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 131, which shall become § 100: ....... 100........................................................................ In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 220 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For the proceedings under this chapter before the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court, state fees and charges fixed by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers are due. State fees for cassation appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be determined in the amount of fees due for the proceedings before the Commission for Protection of Competition. State fees for the revocation of judicial acts and for private complaints before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be determined by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u139	Honourable Members, speeches under § 131? I can't see. We move on to the vote the text of the importer, which the Commission supports, with the proposed editorial changes and thus § 131 becomes § 100. They voted 99 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u140	Paragraph 132 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 132, which shall become § 101: .............................................................................. In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. The third sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall be final. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. The third sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall be final. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. The third sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u141	Are there any speeches? I won't. We proceed to the vote of § 132, which becomes § 101. They voted 107 MPs: 87, none against, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u142	Paragraph 133 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 133, which shall become § 102: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The first sentence of Article 2 shall apply respectively. Art. 28 and Art. Article 29 (a) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 and 2 (b) in para. The third sentence of Article 4 shall apply respectively. Art. 28 and Art. Article 29 (a) is replaced by the following: 28, para. One and two. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 para. 3 and 4 are canceled. 3. Article 29 shall be repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 3 words "22" and art. 29, para. Article 2 (a) is replaced by Article 2 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. OJ L 268, 5. Article 31 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 133, which shall become § 102. They voted 104 MPs: 86, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u144	Paragraph 134 "Contributor text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 134, which shall become § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a, para. 3 after the word "Appeal" is added to the administrative court and a sentence is created second: "The decision of the administrative court is final." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a A sentence is created second: "The judgment of the court is not subject to a cassation appeal. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. The second sentence shall be created: the decision of the court shall not be subject to a cassation appeal. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. The decision is subject to a cassation appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court and the second sentence is amended as follows: the decision is subject to a cassation appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u145	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text in the version of the Commission for § 134, which becomes § 103. They voted 111 MPs: for 89, against 12, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u146	Paragraph 135 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 135, which shall become § 104: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 44, para. 1 after the word "Appeal', the corresponding administrative court shall be added and sentence two shall be inserted: "The decision of the administrative court shall be final'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u147	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There aren't any. We are voting for the version of § 135, which becomes § 104. Vote 112 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u148	Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following: Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov in § 136 t. 2 is deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u149	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u150	Withdraw him, all right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u151	Proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 136: 1. Two o'clock is out. 2. t. 1 becomes the content of § 136. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 136, which shall become § 105: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The 99th para is created. 12: The State's fee in cassation proceedings for appeal of the EIA decision shall be determined in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code on a determined material interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u152	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u153	Madam President, honourable Members! One question is in my mind, I can't help but ask it. Anyone can answer me: how is the material interest of an EIA request determined? This is an assessment of whether a project would affect, to what extent, whether the environment is acceptable and how the material interest of the EIA is determined so that I can determine a state fee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u154	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We're going to vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the proposal by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 28 against 37, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting in the version of § 136, which becomes § 105. Vote 108 MPs: 83, against 21, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u155	Paragraph 137 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Konstantin Popov, Emil Hristov and Hristo Gazhev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 137, which shall become § 106: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. Art....) 251 is amended as follows: Art. 251. The order for disciplinary action may be appealed to the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the Administrative Court of Disputes on the imposition of disciplinary penalties under art. 244, p. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall not be subject to a cassation appeal. The appeal does not stop the execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 137, which becomes § 106. Vote 112 MPs: for 85, against 13, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u157	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 138 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u158	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 138. They voted 109 MPs: for 83, against 2, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u159	Paragraph 139 "Introduction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov in § 139, paragraph Article 6 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 75, para. The 9th sentence is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 139, which shall become § 107: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Underground Treasures (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 8 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Minister of Energy shall be added......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22d, para. 3 after the words the Minister of Energy shall be added a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22g, para. 1 after the words the Minister of Energy shall be added a member of the Ministry appointed by him or a member of the Ministry. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 2 after the words the Minister of Energy shall be added a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5 after the words the Minister of Energy shall be added......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The decisions referred to in the previous paragraphs shall be communicated to the interested parties under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision may be appealed to the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the administrative court shall be final and shall not be subject to a cassation appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. First we vote the unsupported text by the MPs Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. They voted 110 MPs: 29, Against 6, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 139, which becomes § 107. They voted 101 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u161	Paragraph 140 "Investigation text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 140, which shall become § 108: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Legal Aid (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2 sentence 2 second after the word "Appeal' is added to the relevant administrative court and a third sentence is created: "The decision of the administrative court is final.' 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 7 after the word "controversial', is added to the relevant administrative court and a sentence is created second: the decision of the administrative court is final. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 6 after the word "Appeal', the sentence shall be inserted before the administrative court in question and the second sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u162	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission Report on § 140, which shall become § 108, in the version of the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 83 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u163	Paragraph 141 "Introduction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 141, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, in the new content of para. 1 of art. 73 the words "administrative court' in the order of the Administrative Code of Procedure" shall be replaced by "citizen court in the order of the Civil Procedure Code." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 141 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u164	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 31, against 31, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer for § 141 and proposes that it be rejected. Vote 92 MPs: 88, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u165	Paragraph 142 "Investigation text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 142, which shall become § 109: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Radio and Television (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28a, para. The Supreme Administrative Court is replaced by the Administrative Court - Sofia District. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 words The Supreme Administrative Court is replaced by the Administrative Court - Sofia District.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u166	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 142, which becomes § 109. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u167	Paragraph 143 "Introduction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 143, which shall become § 110: ........................................................... In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 2. In para. 6: (a) in a sentence first after the words "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests" shall be added "or an official appointed by him by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry"; (b) in a sentence second, after the words "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests" shall be added "or the person appointed by him by the ministry" and after the words "Administrative Procedure" shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 3. In para. 7 the words "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" under para. 6.................................................................................. 4. In para. 8 in the text before t. 1 the words "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" under para. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the version of § 143, which becomes § 110, on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u169	Paragraph 144 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 144, which shall become § 111: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Irrigation Associations (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the relevant Administrative Court. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. The second sentence of the sentence is replaced by the corresponding administrative court. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 1 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u170	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches and no opinions. We're going to vote. We are voting for the version of § 144, which becomes § 111. They voted 96 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u171	Paragraph 145 "Investigation text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Another proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 145, which shall become § 112: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... In the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 6 the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1, t. 2 in the sixth sentence, the sixth sentence is finally added to the list of a member of the ministry appointed by him or a member of the ministry. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. A sentence 2 first after the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is added, or an official appointed by him by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a, para. 3 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24b, para. 1 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24d, para. 3 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37c, para. 12 a member of the ministry is finally added or appointed by him. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37th, para. 2 After the words the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests is added a member of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u172	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of § 145, which shall become § 112, in the version of the Committee on the Report. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u173	Paragraph 146 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 146, which shall become § 113: ................. 113............................................................ In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Minister of Tourism is added.. or appointed by him an official of the Ministry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 para. 9 is amended as follows: The refusal to open a procedure for the establishment of an OPT may be appealed to the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of notification of the founding committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u174	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the wording of § 146, which becomes § 113. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u175	Paragraph 147 "Investigation text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 147, which shall become § 114: .............................................................................. In the Law on Physical Education and Sports (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 after the words the Minister of Youth and Sports is added a member of the Ministry. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17d, para. 1 after the word "the appeal" shall be added to the administrative court concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u176	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the wording of § 147, which becomes § 114. They voted 104 MPs: 82, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u177	Paragraph 148 "Investigation text'. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 148, which shall become § 115: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Food (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a, para. 4 the Minister of Health is added after the words... or a member of the ministry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 6 the Minister of Health shall be added, after the words, a member of the Ministry, and after the words, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be added, or a member of the Ministry appointed by him; (b) in para. 7 after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 t. 3 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests or the Minister of Health or designated officials of the ministry concerned, when the value of the food is over 100 000 BGN (b) in para. 3 after the word "Acquittal', is added to the relevant administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u178	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the wording of § 148, which shall become § 115 in the version of the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 78, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u179	Paragraph 149 "Investigation text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 149, which shall become § 116: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Private Judicial Contractors (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2 in sentence two, the words "Civil procedural code" shall be replaced by "Administrative procedural code" and a third sentence shall be created: "The notice shall be subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia under the order of the Administrative procedure code." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. The second sentence is created: The order may be appealed to the relevant administrative court under the administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u180	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the wording of § 149, which becomes § 116 in the version of the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 78, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u181	Paragraph 150.. of an importer's text. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 150, which shall become § 117: * 117. In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8a, para. 4 sentence 2 the words "Administrative procedural code" shall be replaced by "art." 46s.............................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42c, para. 2 the words "Administrative procedural code" shall be replaced by "art." 46s.............................................................................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 2 after t. 3 the words the Supreme Administrative Court, whose decision is final, shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the Administrative Procedure Code. The court's decision is final. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 3 the words "Administrative procedural code" shall be replaced by "art." The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 as regards the Annex
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u182	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 150, which becomes § 117. Vote 97 MPs: 72 against 17, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u183	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 118: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 69d: "Acquiring a pension from judges, prosecutors and investigators Art. 69d (1) Judges, prosecutors and investigators who, on 31 December 2018, have at least 35 years of joint legal experience, of which at least two thirds of the judicial service may apply for retirement until 31 December 2020, including, regardless of their age. (2) If the persons under para. 1 terminate their employment contract under the order of Art. 165, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, receive the full amount of their next pension for insurance service and age, as well as the compensation under art. 225, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 shall be added at the end, with the exception of complaints against the acts under art. 117, para. 1, t. 2, b. "Says," "Says," "Says," "Says," "Says," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa," "Saysa."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u184	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create a new § 118 as it has just been read. They voted 96 MPs: for 72, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u185	Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 119: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "administrative courts' or before the Supreme Administrative Court, depending on the authority which issued the application' shall be replaced by the corresponding administrative court. 2. In para. 2 the words "administrative courts" shall be replaced by the corresponding administrative court. 3. The creation of para. 3: The decision of the administrative court is not subject to cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u186	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of a new § 119 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 75 against 18 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u187	Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 120: ............................................................................. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 the words "three-member members of the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the "administrative court" at the location of the property. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80a, para. A sentence 3 first after the word "Appeal" shall be added to the administrative court at the location of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u188	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 120. 88 MPs voted: 87, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u189	Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 121: .............................................................................. In the Law on Compensation of Owners of Reserved Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 6, para. 6 sentence first the words the Civil Procedure Code before the relevant district court, and those of the ministers within the same time limit before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the Administrative Procedure Code before the relevant administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u190	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 121. They voted 93 MPs: 75, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u191	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 122: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Agricultural Support Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33a is created. 6: The order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, approving or amending the final specialized layer, shall be subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33b is created. 6: The Orders of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests for approval, disapproval or modification of the final specialized layer of the permanent grassland shall be subject to appeal before the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 122 with the text on the Report. Vote 94 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u193	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 123: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 45a: Art. 45a. (1) The administrative contract with natural or legal persons under art. 45 shall be concluded, amended and terminated, in accordance with the law, the LDC and the regulations on the structure and operation of the NHIF and on the contracts for medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Act on medicinal products in human medicine, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country with holders of retail authorisations for medicinal products in a pharmacy, in accordance with the conditions laid down in art. 45, para. 15. (2) If prior consent or the opinion of another administrative authority is required for the conclusion of the administrative contract in a special law or regulation, the contract shall take effect after the relevant administrative authority has given consent or opinion in the form laid down in the law. (3) If, within the period laid down in the special law, the other administrative authority does not rule, art. 53 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) The contracts concluded between the National Health Insurance Fund, respectively the Regional Health Insurance Fund under art. 45 with natural or legal persons are administrative contracts. For them art. Art. 19b. 19c of the Administrative Procedure Code shall not apply. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 6: The arbitration under paragraph 6 of this Article shall be governed by the laws of the Member States of the European Union and shall be governed by the laws of the Member States of the European Union. 1............................................... 4 shall not be mandatory unless the arbitration panel has been formed under the conditions of para. 5 within a two-week period from the written invitation of the Director of the relevant RHIF to the relevant persons and organisations. (b) the current para. 6 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The arbitration panel shall rule by a decision within two-week period of receipt of the claim. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80g, para. 7 after the words "al." The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in respect of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u194	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 123. Vote 85 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u195	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 124: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Social Assistance Act (prom., DV. No. ...) in art. 13 are created. 6 and 7: Where the Director of the Regional Directorate of Social Assistance and Social Assistance did not rule on the complaint or reject it, the order under para. 2 may be appealed to the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the administrative court shall be final. (7) Where the Director of the Regional Directorate of Social Assistance has decided on the substance of the matter, his decision may be appealed to the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the Administrative Court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u196	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 124. They voted 93 MPs: 71 against 19, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u197	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 125: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 17a, para. 3 after the word, the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court and a sentence shall be created second: the decision of the court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u198	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 125. Vote 88 MPs: 73 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u199	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 126: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Protection of Disasters (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 88. 5 is amended as The orders under para. 1 may be appealed by the interested parties and organisations within 7 days through the Minister of Interior to the relevant administrative court under the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 1 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Justice shall be added to the relevant administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 126 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: for 72, against 5, abstention 20. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u201	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 127: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Law on Family Aid for Children (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 6: The order under para. 5 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The court's decision is final. (b) the current para. 6 becomes a new para. 7. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a, para. 1 sentence 3 is created: "The decision of the administrative court is final.'
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u202	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 127 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 72, against 20, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u203	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 128: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 36, para. 7 sentence 2 the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by the corresponding administrative court under the administrative procedure of the Administrative Code. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 129: "§ 129. In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 8th sentence first after the word "Appeal" is added to the relevant administrative court. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 8 after the word "inquired" shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 6 after the word "municipals" shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 The authorisation issued, the decision to amend and/or supplement, the refusal to issue, amend and/or supplement the authorisation, the withdrawal and the decision to delete the site may be appealed to the administrative court concerned under the administrative procedure code. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 para. 13 is amended as follows: The decision under paragraph 13 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 12 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 The decision under para 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 1 after the word, the appeal shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A sentence of 108, first after the word "Appeal', shall be added to the administrative court concerned. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. The 5th sentence first after the word "Appeal' is added to the relevant administrative court. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 130: '§ 130. In the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 4 sentence 3 the words "The Supreme Administrative Court" are replaced by "the Administrative Court" "Sofia District." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 265 is created. 5. The individual administrative acts referred to in para. 4 are subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put three texts to the vote: the first text of the Commission's proposal to create a new § 128 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the second text of the Commission's proposal to create a new § 129 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the third text of the Commission's proposal to create a new § 130 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 77, none, abstention 12. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u205	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 131: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Paragraph 213 is created. 5. The individual administrative acts referred to in para. 4 are subject to an appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice "Sofia district." Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 132: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) in art. Pursuant to Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 Finally, Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 83, para 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 133: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuse of Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21, para. The 4th sentence second is finally added....and is subject to appeal before the Administrative Court....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u206	Statements? I won't. I put three texts to the vote. First text.. the creation of a new § 131 on a proposal from the Commission with a text proposed by the Commission. A second text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 132 with a text on a proposal from the Commission, and a third text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 133 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u207	Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 134: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Postal Services Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 15, para. 2 the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "the appropriate administrative court."..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 135: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Technical Requirements for Products (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by the corresponding Administrative Court under the Administrative Code. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 136: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 172, para. The second sentence shall be created: the decision of the administrative court shall not be subject to appeal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 137: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Water Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 After the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 3 after the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82 After the word "Appeal', the Court of Appeal shall be added to the relevant administrative court. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, para. 4 shall be added after the word "sign' to the administrative court concerned. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199, para. 6 after the word "persons" shall be added to the administrative court concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u208	Statements? I won't. I put four texts to the vote. First, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 134 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. A second text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 135 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Third text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 136 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Fourth text of the proposal by the Commission to create a new § 137 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u209	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 138: "The Bible says: In the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7 is created. 8. The Orders of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests under para. 6 and 7 are subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia District under the Administrative Procedure Code. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 139: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Promotion of Research (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 29, para. 4 after the word "administrative" is added "administrative" and a sentence is created second: "The disputes concerning the conclusion, implementation, amendment and termination of the contract are decided by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code." Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 140: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law for regulation of water supply and sewerage services (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 6 after the word "inquired" is added to the Administrative Court of the Sofia City. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 8 after the word Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 141: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Film Industry (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 33, para. 7 after the word "candidate" is added "administrative" and a sentence is created second: "Sports concerning the conclusion, implementation, amendment and termination of the contract are decided by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u210	Statements? I won't. I'll put four texts to the vote. The first text is a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 138 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. A second text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 139 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Third text.. a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 140 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. And the fourth text is a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 141 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted. Excuse me, Mrs. Ilieva, there is a procedure. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u211	Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend plenary working hours today until 2.30 am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u212	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 99 MPs: 94, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u213	Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 142: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Chapter 4, Section IX is created art. 123a: Art. 123a (1) The President of the Supreme Administrative Court may post after an opinion of the Director of the National Institute of Justice for a period of one year a Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court or of the Administrative Courts, who shall also monitor the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the General Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. (2) The seconded Judge should also be given the opportunity to monitor on an ongoing basis the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the General Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights by giving him access to cases, participation and visits to conferences, seminars and other activities relating to the activities of those courts and to the application of European Union law in the field of administrative justice. The seconded Judge shall periodically send systematic information to the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative courts by selecting decisions of those courts, as well as appropriate articles and publications relating to the application of European Union law relevant to administrative justice. (3) The Judge-in-Chief shall be elected after holding a competition under rules adopted by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. (4) The Supreme Judicial Council shall ensure, at the request of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the means necessary for the seconded Judge by correcting the budget of the Supreme Administrative Court. (5) The Judge-in-Chief shall send information to the National Institute of Justice for appropriate events relating to the application of European law and relevant to the administrative administration and shall assist in the organisation of appropriate trainings of the administrative judges from Bulgaria where the Court of Justice of the European Union, the General Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights participates. (6) Upon receiving the relevant information from the seconded Judge, the Director of the National Institute of Justice shall take action to prepare a programme for conducting current trainings of magistrates related to the application of European law in the field of administrative justice in order to maintain and increase their professional qualifications. 2. Article 328i is amended as follows: Art. 328i. (1) The order of the Minister of Justice may be appealed by the person to whom disciplinary punishment is imposed and by the proposer to the relevant administrative court within 14 days of notification under the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) The appeal shall not stop the execution unless the administrative court decides otherwise. (3) The appeal shall be dealt with by the administrative court concerned within two months of the court. (4) The decision of the administrative court concerned shall be subject to a cassation appeal within 14 days of its notification to a three-member body of the Supreme Administrative Court and shall be dealt with within two months of the entry into force of the cassation appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 142 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u215	According to § 151 "Introduction text and proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 151 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 149. Under § 152 "Investigation text'. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 152 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u216	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote: the first text of the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 151, and the second text of the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 152, by importer. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u217	According to § 153 "Investigation text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 153, which shall become § 143: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Administrative cases in administrative courts and in the Supreme Administrative Court shall be completed in the same courts in the order so far prior to the entry into force of this law. (2) Within four years of the entry into force of this Law, when the Supreme Administrative Court examines in a closed session a case brought under a cassation complaint lodged after the entry into force of this Law, it shall rule by order or decision under art. 221, para. 1 within one year of the opening of the case, unless that code or special law provides for shorter time limits for certain types of proceedings. In the event of irregularities in the cassation complaint, the time limit for the ruling shall be extended by their removal. The period shall cease to run during the judicial vacation and on the official holidays, unless that code or special law provides for shorter time limits for certain types of proceedings. (3) Within four years of the entry into force of this Law, when the Supreme Administrative Court examines in open court a case brought under a cassation complaint lodged after the entry into force of this Law, it shall set the hearing in accordance with Article. 217, para. 3 within a period of not more than six months from the application to the court. In the event of irregularities in the cassation complaint, the time limit shall be extended by their removal. Where the case is postponed, the next hearing shall be set within a period of not more than 4 months from the date of the first hearing. The time limits shall cease to run during the judicial vacation and the official holidays, except where that code or special law provides for shorter time limits for certain types of proceedings. (4) Dispute proceedings concerning invalidity, enforcement, amendment or termination of administrative contracts concluded before the entry into force of this law, with the exception of those under the Law on the Management of Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds, shall be carried out in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code before the civil courts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am proposing to create a new § 143a, and before I read the text, I will explain why I am making this proposal. This proposal relates to the proposals adopted in § 103 as regards the distribution of the DCC cases. Once we have accepted the proposal of colleague Krum Zarkov, we also need to arrange for the further imported, the recorded Chambers, which may be appealed, to be appealed. I propose the following text of § 143a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The administrative cases under art. 41, para. Art. 3, Art. 156, para. Art. 1, art. 160, para. Art. 6, Art. 187, para. Art. 1, art. 197, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 of the DCC in the administrative courts shall be completed in the same courts under the current order. You can see that this provision is absolutely symmetrical to para. 1 in § 143, which we read.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u220	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the wording of § 153 proposed by the Commission, which becomes § 143. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I propose that we vote on the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov for the creation of § 143a with a text proposed to the MPs. Please vote. Vote 109 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u221	Under Paragraph 154 of the Importer's Text. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 154, which shall become § 144: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. By 10 October 2019, the administrative authorities, the judicial authorities, the public authorities and the public service providers shall ensure that requests, alerts and proposals, complaints, protests, applications, claims and applications are submitted to them electronically pursuant to art. 18 years old. According to § 155 "Introduction text and proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 155, which shall become § 145: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) By 10 October 2019 the Supreme Judicial Council shall create a technical opportunity for lawyers to fulfil their obligation under art. 137, para. 2 to notify their e-mail addresses by electronic means through electronic communications signed by electronic signature. (2) The lawyers shall state to the Supreme Judicial Council the circumstances to be entered, according to art. 137, para. 2 to 6 months from the day of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal. According to § 156 "Investigation text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 156, which shall become § 146: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Within two months of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal, the authorities of art. 307 designate officials to issue acts and penal decrees. According to § 157 "Introduction text and proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 157, which becomes § 147: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: " The Bible, " " " " Is the Bible, " " Is the (2) By 1 January 2021 the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Administrative Court of Sofia City, and the Administrative Court of Sofia District shall receive the necessary building fund to secure and carry out their activities according to the workload and distribution of cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u222	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote four texts: the first text, which the Commission proposes, in the wording of § 154, which becomes § 144; the second text, which the Commission proposes, in the wording of § 155, which becomes § 145; the third text, which the Commission proposes, in the wording of § 156, which becomes § 146, and the fourth text, which the Commission proposes, in the wording of § 157, which becomes § 147. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 21. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u223	Before the last two final paragraphs of the Bill, I make the following proposals for re-voting and clarification regarding the votes held so far. With regard to § 19, please submit the final legal and technical version to the vote. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the average version of § 19, which becomes § 15a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u224	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the proposal of § 19, which shall become § 15a, namely: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: for 99, they won't mind, the abstentioners 6. The offer is accepted. Please proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues from the Financial Texts (Final Texts) have carried out the control of the votes and, as regards § 74, have found that on the proposal of colleagues Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov: the proposal under point has been withdrawn. 1 et c. 2.7, but he didn't specifically say he was withdrawing 2.2. For this reason, it should be put to the vote. Analog is also the case with the proposal of colleague Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs under this paragraph. He suggested that § 74 be dropped. The Commission has not supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u226	Colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov in his unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 14 against 8, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 74. They voted 102 MPs: 17 against 31, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u227	In the final two paragraphs. The Commission proposes to create new § 148 and 149: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss By 10 October 2019, the communications and calls shall be made in the current order. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2019, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 4; § 11; § 14. I am making an editorial proposal, Mr President, to add § 15a, which we commented a moment ago,...................................................................................... 1 concerning sentence one, etc. 2, which shall enter into force from 10 October 2019; 2. Paragraph 33a and § 70, which shall enter into force two months after the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal. Mr. Chairman, I'm reading an edited item. 3 as follows: 3. ............................................................................... 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7; § 143a and § 146, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u228	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first text of the Commission proposal for the creation of § 148 with a text on a proposal from the Commission; the second text of the Commission proposal for the creation of § 149, p. 1 and 2 are on a proposal from the Commission; 3 Mr. Kirilov proposed an editorial amendment and the editorial amendment included § 15a, plus a new proposal for the inclusion of § 72, p. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, § 143a and 146, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal. They voted 107 MPs: 90, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the experts of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the MPs who have participated in the work of the many working groups in the last year, as well as the institutions. Thank you, I hope we've taken a serious step. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. Importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will be presented by Mrs Avramova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 18 July 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mr. Valentine Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, Mr. Doncho Atanasov, Member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and Mr. Blagoy Stanchev, Secretary of the National Association of Municipalities. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are a continuation and further development of the changes in 2015 related to the construction and operation of the mixed electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the paid road network on a toll basis for vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes (tol) and based on time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes (electronic screw). The bill provides for the establishment of an explicit legal regulation of these charging options applicable to the different categories of road vehicles and introduces a mixed toll system on a toll basis and on a time basis. Details on the terms and conditions for the construction and operation of the system and on the different charging options will be further developed in the regulation provided for in the Bill. The bill provides for the Road Infrastructure Agency to enter into contracts with traders who wish to carry out recovery/incasing claims for charges for use of the paid road network and the conditions to be met will be announced in advance and generally valid for all those who wish to enter into a contract. In order to carry out the system management and control functions, it is envisaged that the Agency should set up a new STU. Opinions in support of the Bill were set out by the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Road Infrastructure Agency and of the National Association of Municipalities, offering to provide for the possibility with part of the fees to finance the repair and maintenance of the municipal road network. During the discussion, the MPs supported the need for the proposed changes, while also asking a number of questions to which the representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency answered. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes in favour, without the opposition and 6 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u232	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present to us Mrs. Fikirliyska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018. At its meeting held on 18 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Vesela Nacheva, Head of the Political Office, and Mrs. Veselina Terziyska Secretary General; Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Chairman of the Management Board, and Mrs. Doncho Atanasov, Member of the Management Board. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov noted that this bill regulates the specifics of the individual products.................................................................................................. The Bill transposes Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2011 amending Directive 199962/EU on the payment of heavy goods vehicle charges for the use of certain infrastructures, enabling such charges to be paid electronically. The bill provides for the collection of fees to be carried out by traders who have concluded contracts with the Road Infrastructure Agency at pre-declared conditions and prices, such as the points of sale to be located at border crossing points. A separate register of national providers of electronic charging services for distance to be collected shall be established and the powers of the Road Infrastructure Agency shall be supplemented. The representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency expressed a positive opinion in support of the bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on July 12, 2018.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Fikirliyska. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At a meeting held on 19 July 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Veselina Terziyska, Secretary General of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Stella Krasteva, Director of the Directorate of Road Fees and Permits, in the Agency of Road Infrastructure, Kalin Kamenov, member of the Management Board of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, and others. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Nenkov. The bill proposes amendments and additions to the Roads Act relating to the construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of the tolled road network for vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes and based on time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes. After the presentation of the Law was held a discussion where representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the members of the Commission expressed principle support for the Law. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. With the Report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr Vigenin will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018. At its extraordinary meeting on 25 July 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Nenkov. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vesela Nacheva, Head of Political Office of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The current amendments to the Roads Act are the result of the legislative measures initiated in 2015 on the construction and operation of the electronic charging system for the use of the paid road network on a toll basis of vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes and on a basis of time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes (electronic screw). The reasons under the Bill state that the current system for charging road charges generates revenue from paper tarts which are insufficient to cover the increasing cost of the life cycle of the national road network. In this regard, in view of the need for a long-term and sustainable solution providing comprehensive improvements in system efficiency and the provision of binding European interoperability services, importers refer to a World Bank report on the development of the overall vision for the introduction of an electronic system for the provision of European electronic charging services. The report was drawn up on 30 April 2015 and recommended the following charging options applicable to the different vehicle categories and introduced a mixed charging system for the different categories of road vehicles on a time basis and on a distance to be covered by the bill: electronic collection of tolls based on the distance travelled for domestic and foreign heavy goods road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, the amount of which is calculated by means of a vehicle fitted on-board unit registering the data for distance travelled by means of a global navigation satellite system; a route map based on distance travelled within a specified time period for which is valid, for domestic and foreign heavy goods road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, which do not have specialised on-board devices or other appropriate satellite tracking system; an electronic screw charge based on a period of time of local and foreign road with a total technically permissible maximum mass less than or equal to 3,5 tonnes. The establishment of a mixed charging system will be expected to meet the requirements of Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2011 amending Directive 199962/EC on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures. The Directive aims to enable Member States to introduce payment opportunities for fees due to enable carriers to pay tolls and charges for use 24 hours a day, at least at the main outlets, using generally accepted payment methods and outside the Member States in which they are applied. Importers point out that all proposed changes aim to help the practical application of European road toll legislation in accordance with Directive 2004/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the interoperability of electronic road toll systems in the Community (Text with EEA relevance) and Commission Decision of 6 October 2009 laying down the European electronic toll service and its technical elements (notified under EEA relevance number C/2009/7547) 2009/750/EC. These amendments should lead to harmonisation between the European electronic toll service and the national service in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Commissioner, asked why the bill is being submitted through MPs, which in practice does not allow to go through the standard consultation and reporting procedure of the countries concerned. Christian Vigenin, President of the Commission, asked for an explanation of why it is necessary to collect the fees from private companies. Mr. Nenkov explained that the introduction of bills by MPs does not in any case mean that they are not quality, and in this case it is made in close coordination with the government. He also clarified that the Bill sets only the framework, and the regulations that will actually introduce fees should go through public consultation. Mr. Glossov explained the way the fees will be collected, stressing that all funds will go to API. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the European Union, 1 vote abstention and 1 vote against the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 854-01-69, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u238	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, you said you had the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable importers! I would first like to thank all those who support us in our efforts to make a cardinal change in governance and, of course, in financing the road sector. This is proven, by the way, by the recently published new vision of managing opposition colleagues [[single applause in BSP for Bulgaria.]] , in which, by the way, the introduction of the toll is placed as a top priority. We thank you for supporting and being in line with our efforts, as this was our primary election promise and to see how consistent, how sustainable we carry it out. By the way, from the debate to here and in the public domain, and the committees that were competent on the subject, the four committees, we heard their reports, came down a few rather organisational issues, rather a few secondary issues, and there were no debates on the substance. Perhaps with this speech I will draw your attention to the discussion, which I am convinced will be constructive enough on this so important topic for the whole society. The discussion on the fact that the bill is being tabled by MPs, not by the Council of Ministers, well, honourable Members of the opposition, I do not know how it has been in your brief governments in the last few years, but we do not share, but I think that both the legislative authority represented by the ruling majority and the executive power, not only do we work in unison, we not just have common goals, but also our timing, of course, and the schedules we follow, are in perfect sync, in perfect communication and with similar actions, we build on our efforts. I think that such a denigration of the role of MPs and Parliament as a whole, and you want in some way to downplay the legislative initiative of specific MPs, at least it is not serious. It is good that in the debate and in the discussions it became clear that the bill proposed by a group of MPs from the majority gives the framework and answers the question... there will be or will not be a toll system in Bulgaria. That's the frame. All the other details relating to several questions you know that we had rather discussions in committees such as Transport, Regional, even here in the Chamber concerning the choice of the range of roads that will come and will be charged under the new system, the debate on lending, on the financial model and order of other debates will then, of course, be resolved after public discussion with all interested parties, branch organisations, the whole society at a stage such as chronology at the end of this year and will be resolved by regulatory acts, regulations and specific regulations. It is also nice to say that for citizens there will be no appreciation of the service. You know they're not gonna buy any onboard devices, machines and so on. The detection of electronic wineries will be done with on-board devices, of course, with mobile teams to the Road Infrastructure Agency and will be supplied with information on the central server that will keep information on which car is paid with a bill, for what period is this bill valid, invalid and for what duration, of course, it is. The electronic wines will be at the same prices as the current ones. What's new is we're putting in a weekend bill. It is our commitment, you know, at the start stage of the procurement procedure for the introduction of the mixed system, the toll system for heavy goods and for cars. It will serve people who rarely travel outside the settlements for some and another weekend of the year. As well as, of course, foreign tourists who visit our resorts and our country on weekends. There are different ideas for time ranges, there are different ideas for price rate. This, I said, will become clear after a public discussion in September, when we have the proposals from the consultants to the Road Infrastructure Agency and their experts on the price model and tariffs. From several places already, including the Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria with colleagues from BSP and in the public space, it was about how much of the revenue from the future tol system in different respective percentages and ranges to be charged for rehabilitation, maintenance and repair of municipal roads. That's a great idea! Great idea, but clearly we have a very serious brake. And I'll quote the brake. We have Directive 2006/38 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 amending Directive 1999/62 EC on the payment of heavy goods car charges for the use of certain services. This directive regulates what infrastructure revenue from the toll system can be spent on only those infrastructure sites where it is generated, i.e. Republican roads. It is not that this does not enable us, perhaps as reasonable and good rulers, to offer other compensatory mechanisms. As at the moment, the Road Infrastructure Agency is dominated by the Ministry of Finance, when there is a budget surplus in good implementation of the revenue side, of course, and that part of this revenue is to go along the municipal budgets for the maintenance of municipal roads, respectively. We all know that this issue is currently on the agenda. The next moment, you know, is improving local revenue collection, changes in relevant regulations, increasing local revenue. So there are many options, but the regulatory regulation for spending the resource from the tol system is only on Republican roads. A very important issue is the tariffs, which will be decided after adoption, God forbid, on the Bill in this optimized form and after the work of the colleagues from the "Rail Infrastructure" Agency and the World Bank in August and September. Another question has been asked and stood on the agenda. The question of the duties of the Road Infrastructure Agency to companies, road supporters and so on, which is another argument in support of the maximum rapid adoption of the new approach, the new model and the introduction of the toll system, respectively the adoption of this law in order to create a sustainable, both in financial and institutional terms, a road sector. Be assured that if we are dealing with the exact terminology, the Road Infrastructure Agency is currently lacking in financial obligations. There are commitments to be correct, and after a decision by the Council of Ministers since last year to increase the limit of commitments made, but there are financial obligations, I can explain in detail what this means. Be assured that we have always been correct to our counterparties and have paid the bill, as they say, we have fulfilled all the obligations we have had. I didn't know it was the job of the opposition and its MPs to take care of the balance of specific trading companies. Obviously there is also a specific reason for this, we have certainly never refused such meetings with industry organizations, including with the Construction Chamber, we have perfect relations with the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency and everyone else and I think there is no need for such comments. Perhaps they will be in the fields of future, have no cashiership on the current bill, although such debates have appeared on some of the committees. They will be subject, I am convinced, to parliamentary questions, to questions, to discussions, and, in general, to our policy in the road sector. I think that we are not only supporting the draft by the Ministry, the Road Infrastructure Agency, but it is the important step of institutional, of course, and of a regulatory nature, so that we can have the regulation, so that we can go that time with all the regulations, with the adoption of a new development plan by the colleagues of the Road Infrastructure Agency, with the content of the new Directorate, which will replace the current Road Fees and Road Licences and will be responsible for the functioning of the Toll System. As of January the following year, which we have committed to answering your questions in a very different way with specific, precise commitments, estimates, as if we continue in the same political spirit, because of the very political situation, without expert motives, without expert debate on the subject, including with all interested parties, any parliamentary question about the state of the roads on my side will be with an answer: With similar comments, you and many of the complainants have absolutely sabotaged the initiation of the procedure, its very conduct, and at the moment the introduction of the tol system itself for the third year. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you gave the floor to Minister Nankov two minutes before the expiry of the working time of the National Assembly. He made a ten-minute presentation, you split the debate. What the Bulgarian society benefits most from is a debate in this Chamber. You let him talk for ten minutes, and tomorrow we'll discuss it in his absence. And since he said a series of untruths, I'm only going to show you one...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u242	Mr. Svilensky, the procedure is with me. Don't break the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u243	That's what you have to say. I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nankov said it was the law, but you had to stop him, who would decide whether he would have a toll system, or not have a toll system... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u244	Mr. Svilensky, can I have your attention, please? I hate to interrupt, but this is a procedure for me. Do not engage in dialogue with anyone in this room or with Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry if I violated the procedure, but you should have paid attention to Minister Nankov that this is not the law he will decide. [[noise and lines]] Whether there is a system or not, and today the government has decided to give 180 million for a system. And I ask: how did you decide to give 180 million when the Bulgarian Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-25.u246	Back to me, Mr. Svilensky, back to me. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Minister, please don't engage in dialogue, we're graduating. Mr. Svilensky, your procedure has run out. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] The next regular plenary session shall be on 26 July 2018 at 9.00, in accordance with the adopted Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
