ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, item one for Friday 13 July 2018, is: REPORT ON THE PARTICIPATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN THE PROCEDURE OF THE DECISIONS IN THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE TIME OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (JANUARY AND FOR THE MAIN PRIORITIES AT THE TIME OF THE AUSTRIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (JULLY "DECEMBER 2018')). I'll read to you: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting implementing rules of procedure of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of § 2 of the additional provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the following Rules of Procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: 1. The Prime Minister shall present within 10 minutes the report of the Council of Ministers on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and on the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency. 2. Speaks are heard on behalf of the parliamentary groups.. 1 representative within 10 minutes, and 1 MP, not members of the parliamentary group............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria may speak under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. 2 - one representative on behalf of the relevant parliamentary group in the European Parliament within 5 minutes and 1 independent member of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria within 2 minutes. 4. Answers to questions raised in the speeches under point (c) 2 and 3 of the members of the Council of Ministers within 10 minutes each. 5. No decision shall be taken on the report. The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 11 July 2018 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. Colleagues, in your post office there are published books with the report of the Bulgarian Presidency and what is done, so you can also get acquainted in details. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! I propose a procedure under art. 49, para. 2 of our rules for admission in the hall of Mrs. Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister of Health, Denitsa Savcheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister of Tourism, Atanas Zaprianov Deputy Minister of Defence, as well as MEPs: Emil Radev, Andrey Novakov, Andrei Kovachev, Vladimir Uruchev, Georgi Pirinski and Iskra Mihailova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 180 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Velchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u4	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Colleagues, my procedure is in connection with art. 51 paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Rules concerning direct transmission on national television. You know that Friday's control starts at 11:00 p.m. My suggestion is that the meeting be delivered directly from 9:00 p.m. on National Television. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's like by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u5	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 191 MPs: 173, against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to brief us on the Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Bulgarian Presidency. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is closed. The results we have achieved show our responsibility and professionalism, our commitment to the European cause and our ability to work for it. The motto of the Bulgarian Parliament has become a slogan of the entire European Union in the past six months. The Union makes the force is the meaning of the European cause and although it comes from our history, it must remain as a fundamental principle of Bulgarian politics in the future. This was the first Presidency for our country since our accession to the European Union. It was a test of our European identity. We have shown that Bulgaria can work convincingly as a European state, understand the essence of European priorities and demonstrate the ability to work fully to achieve them. I would therefore like to thank all the ministers and experts from the administration in Sofia, as well as those who worked in Brussels. They were all fully engaged and committed to the responsible mission in working groups and formats, in organizing events, as well as in implementing the policies and legislative files. Let me remind you of the facts: we started with 105 open legislative files on 1 January this year, and prematurely, because you know that before us it was supposed to be Great Britain by six months earlier the Presidency pulled out. The European Commission subsequently presented another 30 new proposals that we were working on. The balance is: - 46 agreements reached with the European Parliament; - 39 legislative files on which we have united the positions of all 28 Member States in the Council so that they can enter into negotiations with the European Parliament; - 58 Council conclusions; - 1 conclusion of the Presidency; - 6 Council recommendations; - 17 progress reports, of which 5 reports of the Presidency. I'm only going to focus on some of the key achievements, because 10 minutes isn't enough for a detailed statement of everything that's been done in those six months. The Bulgarian Presidency provided a smooth and timely start of the negotiation process on the next Multiannual Financial Framework for the period after 2020. We organised a thorough exchange of views between the Member States and all stakeholders before the publication of the Commission's legislative proposal. As a result, as a result of your decision of 1 December last year, the new budget has ensured the preservation of the Union's successful policies such as the Cohesion and Common Agricultural Policy. Along with this, there are new proposals for separate budgets for digitalisation and defence, which will lead to economic growth and the creation of quality jobs. Immediately after the presentation of the European Commission's proposals on 2 May, in order to make maximum progress, we started the discussion on the substance in the working groups. Work on the initiatives for deepening the Economic and Monetary Union was among the main priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency. As a result of the targeted efforts and on the basis of a compromise developed by the Presidency, the differences between the Member States were overcome and the long-awaited general approach was achieved on the Bank package of legislative proposals, which represents a key step towards the completion of the Banking Union. The Bulgarian Presidency placed a strong emphasis on the transition to a circular economy and eco-innovations aimed at resource efficiency and reducing the harmful impact on the environment and the health of citizens. The setting of atmospheric air quality issues for discussion at the highest level has been recognised and assessed not only by the institutions but also by all Member States. It is significant that last week in the European Parliament we received congratulations and a good assessment from the leader of the Greens, Ska Keller, both for our achievements in the field of environment and for the Western Balkans. We have placed young people at the heart of the debate on the future of Europe. We have achieved a doubling of the budget for the new Programme EUR 2020 for education and youth. We adopted the first European Programme for Industrial Development in the field of defence. Through it, we will be able to make more effective use of taxpayers' funds, promoting innovation and technological development and ensuring a key change in the European defence industry, including for small and medium-sized enterprises. The construction of the Energy Union is an exceptional chance both to make the European Union's economy more competitive and innovative and to meet our ambitious objectives for combating climate change. We have made decisive progress by successfully completing negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament on the three key files: energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy management of the Energy Union. We also worked on the Danube Strategy. It was discussed at seven events and already has an accepted road map. A procedure has been initiated to select a common structure to manage the Danube Strategy. In fulfilling the political objective set to promote competitiveness, the Bulgarian Presidency has made its best efforts. I am setting an example of the work on the proposal for a Regulation on the mutual recognition of goods, which will have an impact on the overall improvement of the functioning of the European Union's single market. It will ensure that a commodity that appears on the market, for example in Bulgaria, can also be sold in other Member States. We have worked to find solutions to end discriminatory practices against consumers who divide the East and West in the European Union. We put the problem on the table through the High Level Forum in Sofia on the double standard of food and discussed measures how no European citizen should be treated as a second quality consumer because we are all equal and worthy Europeans. The Bulgarian Presidency focused on the digital single market as a source of growth and competitiveness, as stated in the National Assembly decision. We have reached a political agreement on the proposal for a Directive authorising Member States' competition authorities to be more effective law enforcement authorities and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. Key stages of discussions and negotiations on priority legislative proposals related to the revision of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and European copyright reform have been successfully completed. The agreement reached will provide citizens with more access to audiovisual and media content and, at the same time, protect children and citizens from harmful content. As a result of the upgraded fair rules for creators, legalists and users in the digital age, the creation and dissemination of quality cultural and creative production will be encouraged. A Digital Education and Skill Action Plan aimed at adapting school and skills to new technologies as well as promoting entrepreneurial skills was also adopted in Sofia. To BSP colleagues, who are certainly interested in the social theme, I can say the following: we have made progress in key priority areas within the European Pillar of Social Rights for equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion. A key achievement for the Presidency was the completion of the work on the proposal for a directive on the posting of workers in the field of services. The adoption of the changes ensures fair working conditions for posted workers and fair competition between workers' posting companies and local enterprises. The common approach reached under the Social Security Systems Coordination Regulations will continue the process of modernisation of legislation in this area. It will concern the access of economically inactive citizens to social security benefits, long-term care benefits, unemployment and family benefits, applicable legislation for posted and dispatched workers and persons working in one or more Member States. We have achieved a common position of the 28 Member States under the Directive on the equilibrium of professional and private life. This includes leave and flexible work schemes, as well as increased opportunities for the use of leave for family reasons by men to help women participate in the labour market. We have worked to improve working conditions for all workers by achieving a common approach under the Transparent and Predictable Working Conditions Directive. Another key priority for us was and remains security and security at the external borders of the European Union. We have managed to reach an agreement with the European Parliament on three regulations relating to police and judicial cooperation, border checks and the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. They will lead to strengthening the Schengen Information System and increasing the interoperability of European Union information systems. The Presidency exceeded the objective set by the Cyber Security Act, reaching a general approach on the proposal for a regulation that will make citizens and businesses feel safer and safer in the Internet as well. We have invested a lot of efforts on Dublin reform. To begin with, we changed our approach to work and started almost again. We have agreed between the Member States at the working level on the main issues of concern. Our project was a proposal for a comprehensive mechanism for action at different levels of intensity of migration pressure towards Europe. We have made great progress, but time has not reached to reach a consensus between all countries. But what was done was appreciated on merit and in the conclusions of the last Council it is pointed out that the Bulgarian proposal should be used as a basis in the process of seeking a consensus solution. At the end of our presidency, we can show that four out of six open files are already on the finish line. The subject of migration and security at the external borders of the European Union remains difficult and is still in the focus of political debates in the European Union. Based on our experience in relations with Turkey and our other neighbouring countries, we have been able to unite our European partners to continue the dialogue with Turkey. That is why the meeting in Varna was restored the dialogue between the institutions of the European Union and Turkey and the commitment to providing an additional 3 billion was reaffirmed. EUR for the European Union Refugee Mechanism in Turkey. The European Council has confirmed that Turkey remains a key partner of the Union and will continue cooperation in areas such as migration and the fight against terrorism, energy, transport, economy and trade. This is a result that reduces tension in relations between partners and is key to common European security. As a sign achievement of our Presidency, I can determine the focus of our efforts on the European perspective and connectivity of the countries of the Western Balkans. This topic was immediately recognised as a common European responsibility and our efforts were supported by everyone. We, as Presidency, have expanded and brought out the delicate political context of enlargement the subject of the Western Balkans. Our vision is that integration of countries through better infrastructure, energy, digital connectivity can guarantee their readiness to be accepted into the European family. And we've worked in this direction -- projects, financing, coherence between countries and partners -- banks. Today we have a plan in which the steps for the implementation of the projects are scheduled. At a meeting in Sofia in May this year, we agreed to provide additional funds for the implementation of 11 transport projects, for a digital program in the Balkans, for energy connectivity, for young people through In parallel, we have shown both our European partners and our friends from the Western Balkans that solving the accumulated problems and contradictions should be achieved through dialogue and in finding acceptable compromises. We set an example by signing the Agreement between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia a year ago. Today we have the result of negotiations between Greece and the Republic of Macedonia and since yesterday an official invitation from NATO to Macedonia to join the Pact. The other big step was at the end of June when the Council decided when to start accession negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia and Albania. All these results are not part of a PR campaign. They are a political reality that changes the political development of the region and Europe. Bulgaria managed with the will and conviction expressed by all ministers and experts at different levels to partner with the countries of the Western Balkans, integrate them into the discussions and propose solutions. This style of work has been assessed and recognised as a working political model by other countries as well. A recognition of our efforts was also the invitation to participate in the Berlin Process Summit in London. We are not a member of this initiative, but we were there because of what we have achieved on the European perspective of the Western Balkans within our Presidency. Our work doesn't end now. It also continues during the Austrian Presidency, which has three main priorities in its programme. In essence, they are a continuation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency. We welcome them because we can achieve continuity and sustainable results together. These are: - security and combating illegal migration; - ensuring prosperity and competitiveness through digitalisation; - stability in the neighbouring regions of Europe - European perspective for the Western Balkans/Southeastern Europe. We hope that within the next six months, we will bring successful results to these files, on which we have already made progress. I take this opportunity to thank the Bulgarian Parliament for the good work and cooperation during the Bulgarian Presidency. All six events from the parliamentary dimension contributed to the progress of the priorities set in the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you with a call not to miss the historic chance we had to prove and confirm our confidence in Bulgaria in all our European partners, our neighbouring countries and their citizens to continue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. You're running a little late, but I think everyone's had an interesting time. Colleagues didn't protest. Colleagues, we move on to the second point of the Rules of Procedure that we adopted on Wednesday: speeches are being heard on behalf of the parliamentary groups -- 1 representative within 10 minutes -- and 1 MP who does not belong to a parliamentary group -- within 2 minutes. You have the floor of speech, please. We didn't record order to the parties. Any single parliamentary group may take the floor whenever it chooses. We're working on rules. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and colleagues! Seven months ago, in this Chamber and in this Chamber, we adopted a document of parliament, which in the parliamentary republic has the highest power of the Parliament, this is the decision of the Parliament with which we approved the Programme for the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. In today's assessment, we will adhere strictly to this document, to what it contains, to the tasks we have set out for ourselves, and to the outcome of their execution or to failure accordingly. We appreciate the Presidency as a very good form and organisation, but with poor political content and results. We also want to thank the administration, diplomacy, all those who, although behind the cameras with their daily work, made it possible for the good organization of the holding of the Bulgarian Presidency. And essentially and truly with facts and conclusions only on the document adopted by the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, we have put in this document, if you remember, three key words for the Bulgarian Presidency: consensus, competitiveness and cohesion and we have put a motto on it. Consensus or consent, unfortunately, during and after the Bulgarian Presidency, Europe is more divided than ever. Not only have old differences deepened, but new faults have opened up on key issues for the future of the European Union and Bulgaria, and this is the issue of migration, the issue of the budget for the future programming period and so on. Europe has been divided into different groups - Eastern vs Western, Visegrad's four against large, peripheral countries against the centre, and on different issues. The Bulgarian Presidency could not live up to this process, seek unity and consensus with which we loaded it. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u9	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u10	Unfortunately, we must look at the dimensions of these processes in Bulgaria. Here was given the most vivid example of how it is not done. The Bulgarian Prime Minister and the Bulgarian government could not secure the consensus of the Bulgarian institutions. Honourable Members, this document, which you voted on, says that the Bulgarian Parliament should not only commit itself to the parliamentary dimension, but before every Council the Prime Minister comes to Parliament to present the priorities. Something like that didn't happen. The Bulgarian Parliament stayed away from the process. We set an example of how it should be done back. The only meeting of KOSAC, at which Christian Vigenin is chairman, brought together executive, legislative and judiciary [[cheering, cheering and applause from GERB]] , and presidential authority. In Bulgaria, we isolated the presidential institution [[GERB lines]] I'm not saying President Radev. President Radev tried...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u11	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u12	...to make up for what the Bulgarian government did not do a Danube strategy, for example. [[Noise and applause from GERB.]] You didn't miss to insult him even for that, saying that the Danube Strategy wasn't a priority. Dear colleagues, you have forgotten what document you signed. This document of parliament states that the Danube Strategy is a priority. You failed to join the judiciary where corruption and cross-border crime were discussed, you failed to join the non-governmental sector. You had a Council of Wisdom for the Presidency. The members of this council complained that no one asked them for anything and screamed. You have reached the point that a coalition partner in the government and chairman of a ruling majority party to complain publicly that he is not invited to the events of the government. That's not an agreement. You failed to mobilise national energy, you failed to mobilise the European Presidency as a cause, the result of this will be increasing euroscepticism in just a few months. Competitiveness - our second priority, on the document I am only moving. During the Bulgarian Presidency, the European economy suffered a serious blow in the area of competitiveness. [[(Shouts from GERB and OP:]] I'm talking about the customs duties imposed by the United States of America. [[strong noise, laughter and lines from GERB and OP]] for the production of steel and aluminium. Dear colleagues, this trade war and disputes between Europe and the United States of America will reduce, in the words of European experts and leaders, the competitiveness of the European economy and hence the Bulgarian economy. Not only at European level the competitiveness of our economy and Europe is threatened! It is also for Bulgaria. My fellow Members, however you deny that the future budget of the European Union provides for a reduction in cohesion and agricultural policy, this is at least a fact at this stage. I refer to the speech of the President of the Committee of the Regions Albert, of the European Court of Auditors of that day, who says that the impact on cohesion and agricultural policy will have a severe impact on inequalities between the countries of the European Union, and in particular what do they say? The cohesion policy and the undermining of cohesion policy put Europe's future at risk. On this problem, the Visegrad Four adopted a special declaration, such as some responsible, not only national but also European statesmen. Mr. Borisov was invited to join this declaration, Bulgaria refused with the argument that, as chairman, he should not take a position and should remain neutral.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u13	Of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u14	Is this how European and Bulgarian national interest is protected, we ask, who, without any hesitation, joined this declaration after a meeting in Slovakia with leaders of parties from the Visegrad Four? Dear colleagues, agricultural policy, competitiveness. Mr. Borisov, you must know that today there is a national protest of Bulgarian farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u15	It's not a coincidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u16	I want you to answer the question: with this mixed information about the future of the agricultural policy of Europe, how did you protect the Bulgarian national interest and answer all those people who are outside today in the future budget what and how much money will Bulgaria receive and how will this affect Bulgarian competitiveness? Because another blow to Bulgarian agriculture means shrinking our competitiveness, means external goods, means second quality of the countries, which you allegedly announced during this Presidency. Thirdly, in the document, which we have adopted, we have adopted, for defence, security and migration, and more precisely: reaching agreement by the Bulgarian Presidency and adopting a revised Dublin migration regulation. There's no result on that. Back to deepening the problems and conflicts! Why have you failed to make progress on revision of the Dublin regulation? Moreover, what made you say that sentence: "We are not keeping the European external border well and missed 60 thousand immigrants to Europe. " Instead of asking for a definite change of the Dublin regulation and the failure to return these immigrants to Bulgaria, as this Dublin regulation provides, you have pronounced in Brussels the sentence: "We are not keeping the European border well and we have missed 60 thousand emigrants. So, how do you want to be accepted into Schengen, accepted into Schengen with such recognition at the highest level? You failed to fulfill the task set by the Bulgarian Parliament to revise the Dublin regulation. Defense. We have recorded, honourable Members, and have assigned Bulgaria's government an active role in efforts to deepen cooperation, develop an effective common defence policy in order to increase the security of the European Union. What's the score? Nine European countries have declared themselves a new military alliance for military intervention. Without Bulgaria! Nobody asked us, but no one told us their opinion. [[It points to the Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u17	What an intervention!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u18	The President of the European Union, the leader of this period, has not said his opinion on this issue and has not been invited to this family of these new nine European countries, to a new union they are making. Is this your common defence policy for Europe? European social model. Priority of the Bulgarian Presidency Education, Youth and Culture. And here we have commissioned the Presidency to achieve fair working and social protection conditions. What's not done about it? Where are the measures to overcome inequality? [[Replyes: "Search!" "Reply of the People's Representative Dragomir Stoynev to the Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva: "Don't you dare! "]] Strengthening coordination on issues...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u19	Don't threaten me, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u20	...of health care. Dear colleagues, the scandal broke out at the Presidency that Bulgaria is not paying the other European health courts the treatment of Bulgarian citizens and people suffering from pulmonary diseases came out to protest. Was this the deepening of cooperation in health care? We congratulate the Bulgarian Government and Europe and the leaders of Europe for having achieved an increase in funds and progress under the Erasmus+ Programme. This is good for young Europeans, for their education, for their training and culture. Therefore we appreciate this result, Mr. Borisov! Unfortunately, he was absolutely eliminated by the Youth Meeting in Bulgaria, which was a hard slap on Bulgaria, which ended with the sentence: "What happened in Sofia, wiped out the efforts of generations of young Europeans before you. "This assessment gave Europeans for us. [[Noise and lines.]] Enlargement and regional cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u21	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u22	Madam President! Madam President and colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u23	Mrs. Ninova, they're reacting because time has advanced. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u24	Got it. Please! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u25	Colleagues, I think you appreciate my dialogue. I'm just warning Mrs. Ninova. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u26	The presidency was extremely important. With great patience we listened to the Prime Minister, we did not interrupt him despite the time shift. [[Comments and screams from GERB: "Eee! "]] Please do not show any pettyness today.. We will soon have no such occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u27	Go on, Mrs. Ninova! [[Noise.]] Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u28	Thank you for understanding. Enlargement and regional cooperation. We fully support the efforts of the Bulgarian government, Bulgaria's and the Bulgarian prime minister to put the Western Balkans at the heart of Europe's attention and to work together to expand Europe to our region. But, honourable Members, in our document we have written: the adoption of a final document at the Western Balkans Summit in Sofia with political will of the European Union to join the Western Balkans, and listen with a roadmap with concrete initiatives and commitments and indicative deadlines for the realization of this. This commitment is not fulfilled by the Bulgarian government. The meeting in Sofia is even a retreat from the meeting in Thessaloniki because the association and accessions have dropped out, in particular as words, and this has been postponed in a future uncertain period. [[Replications from OP.]] We need to take into account what was not done on the subject of the Black Sea Region and the Danube Strategy that I have already talked about. Nothing on that subject! Only the efforts of President Radev [[(strong noise and shouts from GERB and OP:]] , deserves to receive congratulations. [[Loud livening and applause by GERB and OP.]] And now, colleagues, it will not be a complete assessment if we do not see what was happening in Bulgaria during this time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u29	Get it over with, Mrs. Ninova, already! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u30	...where was the agreement and how Bulgaria joined this Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u31	Get it over with, Mrs. Ninova. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u32	The presidency began with a six-year murder and ended with the murder of a prisoner! [[(Shouts from GERB and OP:]] During the Presidency 72 protests were made throughout the country: by doctors, teachers, firefighters, farmers, green,.... for Belene............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Replyes: "Search, weather!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u33	Get it over with, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u34	Thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians took to the streets during the Presidency. [[Replications from OP.]] Such a thing was not in the latest history of Bulgaria. During this presidency the government was broadcasting uncertainty, Patriots accused Patriots of lobbying each other. [[speaking indistinctly]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u35	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u36	The Patriots blamed GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u37	I'm warning you one last time...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u38	...that they have ministers who support prostitution and drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u39	...to complete your statement. [[(Loud noise and lines. Screams: "The Time, the Time!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u40	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u41	GERB blamed GERB for Skripal [[noise and lines]] About Russia... [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u42	Excuse me! Mrs. Ninova, just a moment! [[Heckling]] Mrs. Ninova, can I have a moment? Get it over with. I've given you enough time as a reserve. Please refer to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u43	As a conclusion: The Presidency could not mobilise the energy of the Bulgarian people. It was turned into a one-party event for a person's personal rating. The government at the time was broadcasting instability of the ruling coalition. The state was broadcasting uncertainty for the people and mass discontent. I know you're gonna say we're doing this because BSP is jealous of you. [[Laughter, loud noise, applause from GERB and OP.]] Probably those hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians who were on the streets of Bulgaria for protests and they envy you! Probably those coalition partners of yours who criticized you, and they envy you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u44	Is this the graduation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u45	That is why we ask for an objective assessment and offer such a one without political passions and without emotions! [[Loud noise, screams: "The time, the time!"]] Because this Presidency was a great opportunity for Europe and Bulgaria. This opportunity has been missed. This Presidency has not answered what the future of Europe is. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u46	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u47	And what is the place of Bulgaria in this future!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u49	You've wasted your opportunities, and you've learned the lessons from...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova! Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Just to say that the Prime Minister spoke for 15 minutes to Mrs. Ninova and the opposition I gave 16 minutes and 4 seconds. [[Noise from OP.]] Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u51	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I appreciate the opportunity to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, and I hope that you will have the patience to hear from me after Mrs. Ninova's speech. First, Mr. Borisov, I would like to thank you for the review of the results of the first Bulgarian Presidency. There is no institution of the European Union that does not highly appreciate the Presidency. What has been achieved is also recognised by European political families. It is only right that today we, the MPs, should give the Bulgarian government a deserved assessment of what has been done over the past six months. From GERB's group, we find that the Bulgarian Presidency has managed to tackle the main challenge facing each state - President of the Council of the European Union - namely to be a correct mediator, partner and balancemaker in the debates held to achieve the priorities of the Trio Programme. The efforts of the government and the parliamentary dimension were aimed at consolidating the European Union around common action on priority policies. The Bulgarian Presidency was able to place a major emphasis and bring attention to the integration of the Western Balkan countries into the Union. In this context, the enlargement of the European Union remains a key policy and this is one of the politically important decisions during this period. I believe that the support achieved at the moment for the countries of the Western Balkans, albeit in the long term, will be maintained by the Austrian Presidency, remaining high on the European Union's agenda until the final goal is achieved. Bulgaria has given a new impetus to this process and should remain a key driving force until its finalisation. I am confident that the efforts made by the Bulgarian government will continue to reach a lasting agreement by all Member States on the understanding that the European perspective of the Western Balkans is an investment in peace, security and stability of Europe. It is positive that the Sofia Summit of 17 May 2018 will not remain an isolated event. The main messages from it were also discussed at the London meeting within the Berlin process earlier this week. The next rotating Presidency of the Council has also stated readiness to work towards strengthening relations and co-operation with the Western Balkans, and Croatia will organise the next summit in 2020. With its overall activity Bulgaria is invariably contributing to the development of good neighbourly relations in regional cooperation, which play a key role in the enlargement process. The Bulgarian Presidency clearly played a positive role in the process of reaching an agreement between Greece and Macedonia on the name, as a result of which Macedonia received an invitation to join NATO two days ago. We should not forget that not a small part of the closed files are on sensitive issues that directly concern legislation in different areas and internal policies of the Member States. Achievement is the Agreement on Posted Workers Directive, which reduces the possibility of social dumping. When we talk about policies for young people, it is important to note that an Agreement on the legal framework of the European Solidarity Corps was reached during the Bulgarian Presidency. It provides an opportunity for volunteering, internships, jobs and the European Union will allocate more than 1.5 billion. EUR for him until 2027. The efforts of governments and European institutions to jointly negotiate and adopt effective legislation in the field of migration management and asylum reform continue. Within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency significant progress has been made in this direction, which was specifically noted in the conclusions of the European Council of June this year. The completion of asylum reform remains without alternative and finding a compromise solution is key. The protection of the European Union's external border remains a long-term priority for the Union in the context of preventing illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. The only way to protect the external border is for the Union to be united in the decisions on this issue and not to forget the need for support for the first-line countries. An important part of the political dialogue on the future of Europe remains the issues of the Multiannual Financial Framework for the next period. The budget proposed by the Commission at the beginning of May, already to the European Union, 2027, has also brought significant structural changes with a reduction of funds for some of the traditional policies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We can safely define cohesion policy as a key instrument of financial solidarity in Europe. This is why the important debate on the modernisation of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy continues to ensure that the results achieved can be maintained with fewer resources. Of course, this is inevitable in the need to finance the outlined new priorities, such as increasing the foreign aid budget and much more means of defence. In view of the complicated security environment, the Union has taken joint action to build an effective defence policy. The established European Defence Fund and the establishment of permanent structured cooperation in 2017. During the Estonian Presidency, they set the framework for active interaction in the area of defence between the member states. Permanent structured cooperation provides opportunities that can only have added value for the common defence policy, along with participation in NATO. Europe needs the European Union to have a leading role. It is of particular importance that the objectives we set are comparable to the means at our disposal, especially in the area of common foreign and security policy. I can't help but say a few words about the parliamentary dimension. With the decision of the National Assembly, which Mrs. Nino spoke about and adopted in December last year, as parliamentarians we were able to express our unity for the development of the final Programme of Bulgaria, we gave clear support to our government to find to the maximum extent the balance between the common European interest and the national interest. A significant role for the successful first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union had also the events of the parliamentary dimension. The Bulgarian Parliament hosted important meetings. The platform of cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament. We are the representatives of the citizens, so I stress it. It is an indisputable fact that the conferences of national parliaments and the European Parliament were held in a spirit of understanding and cooperation between all political forces despite what we have listened to so far. During the Interparliamentary Conference on a Common Foreign and Security and Defence Policy, we had the opportunity with colleagues from the foreign policy committees of national parliaments and defence committees and the European Parliament to address the main topics of regional cooperation in Europe. Here, Mrs. Ninova, there's a final document. This is the second final document after the Sofia Summit in May, which affected the Danube Strategy and was a priority topic of this conference. I mean, President Radev was invited to participate and to open this conference because this is his expertise on the defence issue, but he wasn't able to come. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The final document adopted, as I said, by the chairmen of the foreign policy and defence committees, ultimately reflects a consensus that has been reached which is very difficult to achieve between all Member States. We succeeded because we worked openly and in a constant dialogue with both national parliaments and the European Parliament and showed expertise and negotiating skills. I am convinced that the first Bulgarian Presidency has contributed not only to strengthening our country as a partner between the countries of the European Union, but also as a leading country for making decisions on the implementation of EU policies and a factor for stability in the Balkans. Bulgaria has managed to be an excellent President of the Council of the European Union in the atmosphere of many global economic and geopolitical challenges for the Union. The most important thing is that despite the political discomfort that you, colleagues on the left, tried to create for governance both at the beginning and at the end of the Presidency, the government is working actively and convincingly for a united and secure Europe. Although you have been given the opportunity to participate most actively in holding the Presidency through the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, you have not stopped criticising over the last six months and have ultimately not proposed specific alternatives. I claim that the first Bulgarian Presidency passed in full transparency and awareness of the citizens. I would like to extend a special thanks to all those who have worked and from the administration, and all volunteers have worked really hard. I am convinced that the Presidency has been useful to all and all events affecting different areas and policies of the Union have passed mainly through the prism of the debate on the future of Europe, which will continue. Bulgaria has done an excellent job to be Europe's ambassador on the international stage, for which I thank the government once again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u53	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! I was going to say Mr. President, but the box against me is empty. This is not good, this is not a statesman's move, regardless of the relationship and the tendency with which the Head of State appreciates our Presidency because I read his critical analysis, he should have been here. But on the subject. I thought we had come out of the swamp of Bulgarian typical masochism, but, alas, we did not. Our presidency is a procedure, ladies and gentlemen, and we all know that. It's not a happy ending story. This Presidency could not and should not today ask impossible, unrealistic things: to achieve something for our country. Well, that's a priori alphabetically forbidden. You can't demand something for your own country as chairman, everyone knows that. You can't raise questions that are in your favor or affect the interests of your country. The Presidency is a procedure that we have done wonderfully. Let's get the tape back. Indeed, I am tired of being right, but a year ago I had said the following: this Presidency will show Europe and the world that these parties, which were called non-systemic, outside the system, unacceptable, those parties that were attacked for participating in the government, will be adopted by Europe and will be seen that at the moment the ruling coalition. Is that what happened? That's what happened. I also said one more thing: those who will come from our guests will see that Bulgaria is a wonderful country, the Bulgarians are wonderful people and will go away with very good impressions from us. Is that what happened? That's what happened. What happened during the Presidency was really the routine work of many people who remained hidden from the cameras. What is important is the political conclusion that we can and should make that in this Presidency the Bulgarian voice was heard. There was a lot of talk about whether the Bulgarian voice would be heard. Yes, it did! It's been heard in a new tone that never existed before. I am referring to the following: for the first time the Bulgarian government pointed out Bulgaria's interest and said that this interest is above the other, above our partnership. I am referring to the topic of migration, I am referring to the topic of Bulgaria's role, about the attitude towards Bulgaria, which many times by the large countries in Europe has been devoid of contempt, condescending, a little bit like a more peripheral state. We have shown that we do not want to be a buffer and a periphery of Europe. We made it clear, we made it very clear. I have prayed for years for such a tone in the relationship with our partners. "Whether in the West, East, North or South, it does not matter because this should be the character of Bulgarian diplomacy, of Bulgarian speaking. This character began to be built during our presidency. One clamp, I'll just say, because there was a note that the Patriots had something to say to each other, Mrs. Ninova, these lines were exchanged after the Presidency ended. We waited very politely for it to end, and then we switched them. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Because the other thing I said a year ago was confirmed that Bulgarian nationalists will be perceived as a systemic, normal European party. Moreover, it turned out that Bulgarian nationalists are the better... I will not tell from whom. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Moreover, our example was accepted, they began to imitate us. Here's an Austria to which we handed over the relay to the Presidency. She formed the same government as in Bulgaria, a centre-right party plus nationalists, and Hans Christian Strahe was also called a long-standing friend of mine, as I was a fascist, nationalist, racist, xenophobic and so on, is now part of the government of Austria and imposes a policy that is beneficial to his country, the people there chose him. Another country.. Italy. Who would have thought years ago that Italy would have such a government as it is today? Which talks about revising the attitude towards Russia, the sanctions and so on, which speaks with a new voice. There's a major party there. The League is also our longtime partners. This means that something is changing in Europe. Whether we feel it, whether we are in class, whether we are in step with this change will also show the future, because our political life does not end with the Presidency, but on the contrary begins now. What we have shown as Bulgarian self-esteem and character should continue from now on. It must be made clear that a dose of healthy nationalism must have in the behaviour of every country in Europe. Public sentiment in Europe is changing. There increasingly dominates the opinion of people who want Europe not to be an open door for anyone who wants to enter illegally, for Europe not to be a territory or a field for over-corporations experiments that will only turn it into a market and want only buyers - consumers - but to be a united alliance of generations. The next European Parliament elections next year will show a very clear reversal of public opinion. [[Heckling]] It will be made clear that Europe is increasingly taking arms to those who previously shared and promoted by parties such as the one I represent, parties that were called antisystemic and how I will not recall. Now it turns out ours were right. I'm not saying this to make a point, I'm saying this because we have to learn lessons from those who were attacking us during this time. These attacks were from everywhere: on the left, on the right, on the middle, on all sides. Now I hear criticism of the Presidency, which is not correct. I know that opposition should be critical, her right, even her duty, is to criticize power. But when it comes to our presentation to other countries, to the other world, we must forget everything about each other. I think this is the right state-of-the-art behavior, and here we've heard incorrect, incorrect criticisms, non-executive. I understand the criticism of being objective, but what does it mean that Europe is divided into groups, and we can't live with that?! How do we lead him? How exactly can we influence the Visegrad Four, or that the U.S. is putting myths on some of its goods? We can't influence that, and that's clear. There to seek guilt in the Bulgarian government is simply incorrect. We can look for other flaws, we have them, we can talk about them and we can talk about them. The main thing is that we showed character and Bulgarian self-esteem. That's the important thing. From now on, it's what we do. If Bulgaria continues to show character, to show self-esteem and in this political game there are no small and large countries... Yes, I will now hear a line that we are not a big enough country to influence, we may not be such a big country, but character is character. You know that there are two types of male character: a true male character and a male character with five letters. Let him be the first. Let us, as we have begun so far, make our demands clear, continue on. I am flattered by the thought that I and my fellow Patriots have also contributed to a dose of healthy nationalism in our behavior outside, to have a dose of character and self-confidence, because back in the decades the Bulgarian political elite was accustomed to being in a tilted position of whether to the East, given to the West, but in such a situation. I hope that what we have just shown will create a new political strata of young people, who will be able to say no when necessary, will be able to defend the Bulgarian interest when it comes to it, even if it opposes some ridiculous things that come from Brussels. We know very well that there are produced on conveyor directives and other documents that are very often not in line with real life. Then we have to say it out loud clearly and precisely. Now that's what happened. The summit on the topic of migration and I think that here, in the Chamber and by opposition, there is no fair-thinking politician who will say that it has failed for Bulgaria because this time we made it clear that we will not be a buffer zone. If we stand for this in the future and if it is supported by all parties in parliament, then there will be a result for Bulgaria. If the Head of State, who is elected directly by the people, takes part in this, I think it will have an even greater effect. However, if we attack each other and explain that the government is bad, and if we were in power, what Presidency we would organise will only work for other foreign powers and factors that, believe me, do not love Bulgaria as much as the Bulgarians do. There is no foreigner who loves Bulgaria more than we do. Therefore let us take care of the country; let us, when it comes to it, be united together; and when it comes to representation before the outside world, say: We forget all domestic interbreeds, and stand together to gain something in common. It will be years, here, some 13 years, maybe then the BSP will come to power, realize the new next Presidency, make it probably the best of God, even better, that is why we work to develop, to move forward, I wish it from the heart, but we should not point to ourselves because the government of Bulgaria, that is what we are. This Parliament is us, this is the Bulgarian people. Good, bad, that's the way it is. We don't have to point at ourselves. We should finally get out of the moving sands of masochism and start acting the way other nations do. Yes, they may not love each other internally, but when they stand before a foreign factor, they are united, defending themselves, and only when this trial passes can they kick their knuckles internally. Outside the people, no. Here in the Chamber, today we are talking in front of an internal and external audience, we are doing a debriefing of our Presidency and we must say clearly: the Presidency was successful, Bulgaria performed wonderfully! The foreigners who have been here for these six months have understood the simple truth: and we are more beautiful, and we are better! [[Laughter, excitement.]] Let's be self-confident! I wish you historical immortality! You can do it, it's in your hands! Thank you for your attention. [[Extreme applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. The word is Mr. Karadaye. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished guests! The Presidency of Bulgaria is over, the Presidency of Austria has started. Under the system introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, another country from another threesome is in its role. In this regard, nothing special has happened. The Presidency shall be alternated every six months between Member States. This is the protocol dimension of the Presidency, a rotating, routine, normal, protocol political event. Historically, however, for Bulgaria this is the first Presidency and it was important for us, as a state, state bodies and institutions, as citizens and a nation, to see ourselves as a responsible mediator in the performance of the tasks of the Presidency, planning and directing the meetings of the Council, representation in the Council's relations with the other institutions of the European Union. The more important thing, of course, was to see how we perform the function of the Presidency in directing and stimulating the work of the Council on European Union legislation; in ensuring continuity in the implementation of the Union Programme; the systematic process and cooperation between Member States; to see and assess at what level our diplomacy is, how we could use the relevant instruments, make important for the agenda of the Council and the European Union and the important issues for our country, without having to be the formal importers, in order not to listen now to the confessions that after the Presidency we already know how to protect the interests of Bulgaria. Today we heard the report on the program. The organizational and technical implementation shall be easily taken into account with the inherent statistical reference. Of course, for the essential part of the event we did not have expectations. On the technical commitments of the Presidency, we are undoubtedly successful and we share good assessments. At the same time, we are aware that the citizens of the European Union, including the Bulgarian citizens, are expecting concrete solutions to the specific problems. We all want to see that the Union takes care of our common security, prosperity and prosperity. We want to see less bureaucracy and more pro-active behaviour of the Member States. The example could have been given by us. On one of the main priorities of the future of Europe and young people, economic growth and social cohesion, there is nothing to boast about. The debate on the Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020 has practically started only to develop in the next Presidency. In cohesion policy after 2020, there is a retreat. The common agricultural policy is not present as a topic. The Economic and Monetary Union is also involved. Culture, as a strategic resource for the better future of the European Union, is absent. On one of the priority topics of employment mobility, where we take into account the results achieved, what really happened to the transport sector? The Bulgarian Presidency at the beginning declares that it will work for functional unity between the Member States and between the European institutions, but it seems that Bulgaria is part of the European Union and that Bulgarian citizens are part of the community of European citizens. The war between the institutions in the country received a new impulse. Division and opposition in society, too. Hate and xenophobia have reached another peak. A retreat from the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country is demonstrated. On the eve of the Presidency, assuming that it was a party event of the ruling parties, there were calls to the opposition for well-meaning behaviour. The presidency is of Bulgaria, not of the ruling party. Once again, we stress that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is opposition to this government in the country, but it was not opposition to the Presidency, nor is it opposition to any significant national priority. The geostrategic interests of Bulgaria require Euro-Atlantic positioning in the Balkans and this is the permanent position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It is the only way to ensure lasting peace in the region and in Europe. Today we are seeing as great success with the subject of the Western Balkans, but we are aware that we remain on the periphery and away from the core of the Union, that the region impresses with internal tensions and opposition?! We do not have a clear horizon for the Eurozone and for Schengen, we have not even been able to provoke such an agenda to show that we do not just have good technical and organisational preparedness, but we have a vision plus priorities for the development of Europe, the region and the country; that we have diplomacy; to show maturity, determination and responsibility. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms did what was necessary for Bulgaria to receive the support of the European Liberals on the important issues for the country. The Eurozone and Schengen before the European elections in 2019. Unfortunately, the government could not benefit from this support. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished guests! For one year, the government has been focusing on the Presidency and has left the internal problems behind. Now it's time for work and work and work again. All that is indicated as a condition for lasting peace consolidation in our region and the possibility of prosperity is time to apply inside the country! Bulgaria can boast of the peaceful transition to democracy and the preservation of peace in the country and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is an important contribution in historical terms. These are facts and the silence, the denial, the distortion of them only can mystify real political time. Let us stop with the double standards, with populisms and nationalisms and conduct responsible state policy; carry out the necessary reforms without delay, without replacement and palatial measures; transcend our Euro-Atlantic orientation, our allegiance to European values and the strength of the Bulgarian ethnic model; oppose hatred, aggression, xenophobia, radicalisms and nationalisms! Democracy has no alternative, togetherness has no alternative, interethnic tolerance has no alternative! Let this be the unified national idea in the perspective of our European development! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honored guests! It is absolutely clear to everyone, and that is why from all over Europe and from all normal political forces, there is a high appreciation of the Bulgarian European Presidency. Yes, we from the party will also give such an assessment...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u59	... A very good one, a little over a very good one, can't be an excellent one, because in the end an excellent one and perfect one can only be the Most High. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We did well with the tasks we had taken, but I will not continue with the praises, and once again: the result is clear. But while you have achieved these successes on the international front, I turn to you, Prime Minister, we will open a topic of what was going on inside the country. One of your deputies made the so-called Big Slam with blunders in the management of Bulgaria. I will give only two examples that are frightening, and I will quote how journalists in the media, websites and impartial Bulgarians comment on them. We have seen numerous examples of insolence in our home, but for such a daring attempt to replace human values, such as Karakachanov's proposal Dancho Dinev to be awarded with the highest state award of the Order of the Old Mountains, I do not remember that is what the journalist Ivo Dimitrov said. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We can't help but look for an answer to the question as to what could be the reason for Karakachanov's lobbying. This is only because of a few unforgettable inèchres or already on yachts.... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u60	Mr. Mareshki, I think you're a little off topic here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u61	No, I do not deviate, this is the theme of the Bulgarian European Presidency and its role in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] So, for a couple of nights on oligarch yachts, that's not gonna happen. Krasimir Karakachanov is hardly self-sacrificing enough to publicly make moral harakiri. After such public scratching of the ego of the oligarch from the scale of Jordan Dinev or providing your grandchildren up to the tenth knee, or for the rest of your life you will suffer every change of time because you have misplaced yourself in the cross. The second example is with the so-called sultans who replaced the ladybugs in the government, but the sultans are from the IMRO of Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u62	Mr. Mareshki, I'm making a note of the way you treat a member of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u63	No, I'm being very respectful. I support him. We even voted the Fuel Act so people could feel it on their backs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u64	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u65	The assessment of what is happening, no matter how much we try to mask it with the case of Sultanka, for example Velizar Enchev said: "Sultanka is a metaphor of the rotten state." Valeria Veleva: "The case is screaming with its evilness." Rosen Bosev: "The company's incomes have jumped eight times since she was in...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u66	Mr. Mareshki, I'm making another remark. Let us talk about today's subject that we are debating. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u67	Mr. Borisov, proverbial is your instinct, which you are very well manifesting when someone errs in your party and makes some schematics, you are very quickly distinguished from it. In the case of Sultanka, there is no way to pass the number: "Ama is Karakachanov's and IMRO's because in the end it is also part of your office. We urge you to listen to your instincts and as quickly as possible to distinguish yourself from them. I see that your proverbial instinct at the moment, and at this meeting is working successfully.. you hold as close Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov to you as possible. That's right, either in front of you or next to you, but in no case behind you. [[(Laughter and exhilaration in the BSP for Bulgaria]] , so that you do not follow the example of his former coalition partner Barekov. Dear Mr. Borisov, I ask you once again after the successful presentation on the international stage, which continues to date, we constantly monitor your appearances, to return to step firmly on Bulgarian soil, to clear the sultans of power so that the cabinet can really continue to work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and European citizens as well. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. [[Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev wants the floor.]] There will be an opportunity for the ministers to answer the questions asked after the MEPs are finished, Mr. Donchev. Let's go by the book, as we agreed. Next is a statement by Emil Radev from the family of the EPP and MEP from the group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u69	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I will not give an assessment to the Presidency because it has already been given 81% of the citizens of Bulgaria believe that the government has done very well with its obligations under the Presidency. In the plenary of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, all political groups spoke only positive opinions on how the Bulgarian Presidency has kept the European Union's agenda for the past six months. In all those working groups, in the committees in the European Parliament the Bulgarian representatives received an excellent assessment, and bear in mind that as our first Presidency, the attention to us was enormous. Everyone expected how we would deal with this new task for us, which was not at all routine and the Presidency coincided with quite difficult moments in the European Union itself. However, Bulgaria closed 78 files, 37 reached a common approach, 48 formal Council meetings, 163 trilateral meetings were held, 1523 meetings of the working groups. In the main priorities Bulgaria showed visibility. Cohesive increase of 8% of Bulgaria's funds for the programming period 2021 - 2027, nearly 2 billion more. During the Bulgarian Presidency in the sector of security and stability, the management of borders and migration, the ETIAS system, the system for prior authorisation of third-country nationals exempt from visas, the modernized eu-LISA of the European Union, the Eurojust Regulation was adopted. We have also launched the creation of the European Prosecutor's Office a particularly important body for the European Union, which will also fight fraud, will soon perhaps be entrusted with the fight against terrorism. The Schengen Information System is three regulations. This includes the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, border checks and police and judicial cooperation. We have achieved a common package on the cybersecurity package, including with the agreement to build a cybersecurity agency. An agreement was also reached on the Regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation decisions, the Criminal Money Laundering Directive, the control of cash. All of these are ways of strengthening the fight against terrorist financing and the fight against organised crime. The Bulgarian Presidency has also contributed much to the functioning of the single digital market. Of 13 legislative acts inherited, 9 of these files have already been closed. The Bulgarian Presidency has also achieved one of the greatest successes after an awkward debate in the social dimension with the agreement reached on posted workers. All of this is a success not only of the Bulgarian government, all of this is a success of Bulgaria and I am very glad that we in the European Parliament managed to find consensus between all political families and together with my colleagues we managed to find a unified approach on important problems such as Schengen, such as the mobility package, such as the Posted Workers Directive. It was when we were united that we succeeded. We were able to really help the Bulgarian government to deal with these serious problems during the Bulgarian Presidency. Bulgaria once again during the Presidency had the assurance from the European Parliament, from the European Commission that it is behind us for our accession and our full Schengen membership. Of course, from now on, the Presidency has been a clear incentive to raise these questions. Disgracing the opposition to the left of all these achievements and accusations that almost only for most of the fallen hails during the Presidency we were not accused, I think they do not reflect the real situation. Bulgaria has achieved a great deal. Bulgaria was a mediator. Bulgaria has once again shown that it can successfully lead the European agenda. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Radev. I give the floor to Mr. Pirinski, MEP from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, distinguished guests! Somewhere around the third month of the Bulgarian Presidency, towards the middle of the term of office to me and to other colleagues from the other political groups, the questions of our colleagues from the other Member States began to become more frequent, expressing a positive assessment, impressing by the way the Bulgarian Presidency is held, the competence, the ability to hold meetings at a different level than the Bulgarian presidents, something that is far from purely technical function. These expressions of appreciation were mixed with an expression of some wonder: how is it from the Bulgarian side, the Bulgarian Presidency with impressive competence? [[Applause from GERB.]] That's where two questions come from. First of all, why the surprise? And, secondly, is the statistics enough for closed files for one positive assessment? The truth is that Bulgaria's image is far from positive in the European Parliament. It weighs above the image of Bulgaria the suspicion of very widespread corruption, of uncontrolled crime, of failure of state institutions. In addition, with such many massive informations for months, MPs were fed by a weekly, written in English, accompanied by free apps, with appalling information about all kinds of outrage in the country's governance, against the background of which a single citizen stands out with his complete incompetence to such phenomena, namely Mr. Delyan Peevski. The issue of corruption also arose in the report of Mr. Borisov in plenary in Strasbourg, where he was put by the same Green MP, who assured that with the new body already and this issue, as he said, would be resolved. I hope so, but will it? The second question is ultimately related to the political assessment of our Presidency. In the statement of the National Assembly on 1 December last year, which was mentioned here, the first accent, the first introductory text states that the National Assembly expresses its confidence that the first Bulgarian Presidency gives a very serious opportunity for the Republic of Bulgaria to influence the European Union's agenda in response to citizens' expectations............................. about security, solidarity, unity and social justice. Here, I think, is the main weakness, if you will, of this opportunity. As it sounded in Mrs. Grozdanova's speech, the Bulgarian Presidency agreed that, since there are new requirements in defence, security, it is natural that funds in the current basic policies will be cut off. This is deeply controversial, undisputed by us in the Group of Socialists and Democrats, thesis. We argue that the new challenges demand new funds. In this regard, it is my question to Mr. Borisov, who at the beginning of his statement today said that the Bulgarian Presidency has defended and guaranteed the main policies, namely cohesion and agricultural, although preliminary data on the multiannual framework indicate that cohesion policy is generally reduced by 10%, by 45% the funds in the Cohesion Fund are cut, 27% less funds for maritime affairs and fisheries, more than 10% cut money for the European Social Fund. About a month ago Mr. Donchev here at a National Assembly meeting, said that the European Union entered the new multiannual framework without clear objectives, without adopted strategy, without an obviously thoughtful plan. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last word. This assessment shall be repeated and confirmed by this opinion of the European Court of Auditors a few days ago, which calls on the European Union in those months to do, first and foremost, this is precisely the objective to develop clear objectives, to define them, to define assumptions within the financial framework in the implementation of these objectives and then to proceed to its adoption. The Bulgarian Presidency has missed this, it seems to me, a golden opportunity not only to ensure smooth running, but to influence, to put on the European Union's agenda the central issue of how the faults, increasingly deepening in Europe, are being overcome, how another quality of European integration is achieved, namely, as a social one that citizens need, and which can guarantee the security of the Union and its future at the end of the day. For me, the answer is not in nationalism, but in sovereign democracy. Yesterday was the anniversary of the Bulgarian Constitution, it talks about Bulgaria as a parliamentary republic, it rests on popular sovereignty, let us strengthen it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Pirinski. For speech Mrs. Iskra Mihailova, MEP from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u73	Honourable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable guests, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me say that I am honored to speak from the stand of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Secondly, to say that the topic we are discussing today is extremely important for both Bulgaria and the European Union. This gives me the opportunity to speak both as a representative of the Liberal Group in the European Parliament and as a representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and as a member of the Liberal Group in the European Liberal Party. I would like to start by saying that when we appreciate the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, first of all, we need to be clear on what we appreciate.............................. how Bulgaria has fulfilled its duty, not its reward, not its honour, but its obligation, arising from membership in the European Union, to assume a rotating Presidency?! A duty which each member country fulfils to ensure the rhythmic functioning of the institutions of the European Union by coordinating the work of the Council in strict synchronization with the European Commission and the European Parliament. Or perhaps we appreciate how and whether our country, represented by the government, takes advantage of its role as Chairman, to resolve issues of national interest with the clear awareness that this is not part of the Presidency and even contradicts the country's main functions?! Or do we appreciate how and to what extent the Bulgarian Presidency met the expectations of the political forces and public groups in Bulgaria about what could contribute to our country's prosperity and its role as rotating chairman?! Furthermore, when we assess the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, let us do so on the basis of objective comparisons with other presidencies in close terms. Personally, as President of the Committee on Regional Development in the European Parliament, I have been working with the Presidency of the European Union since the second half of 2014 to the end of Italy, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Lithuania, Slovakia, Malta, Estonia, and Austria, between them and Bulgaria. I must say that the Bulgarian Presidency is absolutely proportionate to these presidencies and in many ways better than some of them. [[Loud applause]] The Bulgarian Presidency has fulfilled the routine responsibilities arising from the obligations of the member country, ensuring a good level of coordination and synchronization of the European institutions, presented and defended specific priorities. I mean the Western Balkans. In addition, the Bulgarian Presidency had the confidence to discuss the issues of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the future of cohesion policy. Therefore, it took courage in the period when this policy was the subject of serious criticism. This was a routine predictable and balanced Presidency, which is very well accepted by the political factions of the European Parliament, by the Council of Committee Chairs in the European Parliament, and has good results as a number of closed negotiation files conducted by trialogs, i.e. trilateral negotiations with the Commission and Parliament. A Presidency which, during a very difficult period for the European Union, has defended the country's traditional role as President of the European Union. A Presidency which organised and held a series of events and forums that marked the European Union's agenda as topics, positions and potential solutions. I have participated in many of these events and I hope that I have contributed to their success. I took part with the clear awareness that I represent the party that sent me to the European Parliament, which clearly and categorically stated that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is opposed to the current government in Bulgaria, but is not opposed to the Presidency of the European Union. I also participated as a representative of the European Parliament, without whose role the normal functioning of a Presidency is impossible. Where has the Bulgarian Presidency failed? He failed to take advantage of his temporary role to solve national problems. It is therefore criticised by the opposition and this is the role of the opposition. This requires skill, a high degree of diplomacy, experience in the European institutions and very high self-esteem. It was not possible to meet the expectations of all the public groups in Bulgaria, but there is also a need for experience, desire, dialogue and unification of the efforts of all institutions. He didn't make it through with the Dublin deal file package. I'm not surprised. There were two very large brakes the routine in the Presidency and the profile of the coalition of the Bulgarian government. We could not expect that with a routine approach, we will be able to find a solution to a problem which is a challenge for the whole of the European Union and requires its reform. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thanks, I'm done. With extreme nationalism in the government's design, it is difficult to propose a multinational solution for a united Europe under the Dublin Agreement. And here lies the problem, which affects all the European institutions and all the presidencies, including the Bulgarian Presidency, the reforms. The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was a successful Presidency, but a routine Presidency. It wasn't a presidency of reforms. Unfortunately, I do not expect any time soon to have a presidency of reforms. The problems of the European Union remain severe, problems of leadership, of unity, of internal need for reforms and, above all, problems of the trust of European citizens and their strong demand that the European Union be united, effective, secure and prosperous. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mihaylova. We move on to the next point of the rules - answers to questions. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, who will be the first of you? Mr. Donchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u75	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to be extremely unemotional, unlike several of the previous speeches, although politics must have passion. If there's no passion, she's boring. Along with passion, however, there must be reason! We have to read, we have to read documents, we have to watch tables, because I hope many of you know if you only have passion without reason, you will never get to the object of your desires. [[Noise and lines.]] I was going to do a very calm, cool, technically accurate analysis of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the budget, because here were opinions that were, to say the least, false. However, this pales and is not interesting compared to the finding of the increased geopolitical power of Bulgaria, which is able to split Europe. And not just to split it through the middle, but to rip it out, to rip out of her heart the Visegrad Four to cut one way down the vertical, one way down the horizontal. [[Noise and lines.]] What kind of tactical meanness is that? What kind of strategic scheming is that? More than that! Bulgaria, small Bulgaria, is able to cut the relations between Europe and the United States across the middle of the Atlantic?! [[Noise and lines, applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, we have not yet realized this power, and the decision on how to continue using it is entirely yours! [[Noise and lines.]] Such a decision cannot be made only by the Bulgarian government. A brief analysis of the budget. We received congratulations with regard to the increased funds for the European Commission, although this is a proposal from the European Commission. I don't know why we didn't receive congratulations on the increased funds under the Horizon.! Why didn't we receive congratulations on the significantly increased funds for They're 17.5 billion over 62 billion. A very brief analysis will allow me to address you with several numbers in terms of cohesion policy. We heard: drastic cutting, reduction, sharp reduction. Honourable Members, this programming period, the so-called Cohesion Package, amounts to 371,5 billion. During the next programming period, the European Parliament and the Council decided to extend the mandate of the European Parliament to the European Parliament, the Council and the Council in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the We have a nominal increase. The more literate would say: this is not exactly because inflation is building up. And they'll be right. And they'll be right! You're missing something here. You're reducing the beneficiaries by one out of 28 becomes 27. Great Britain, apart from a net donor, is also a beneficiary, it uses not a lot of funds at all for a programme period of about 36 billion. Pounds, especially when we talk about cohesion policy, at least 12 or 13. Don't get me wrong! I would love the Cohesion Package to be much bigger, but given the fact that we have tens of billions of new costs, this is a good compromise. Drastically, it's not true when we talk about rough cuts. Of course, this is just the beginning. This is the Commission's proposal, from now on talks will be held. Last, honourable colleagues. I understand that someone supports various countries that have initiatives to change a budget. His right! I would like to call on you, honourable Members, to be very careful! Various groups of countries whose budget has been reduced by 20% or 30% are taking different initiatives to change the budget. Most of these initiatives are to the detriment of Bulgaria, whose budget is increasing. Be careful what you support! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, honourable fellow ministers! I had prepared an eight-page report on what the Ministry of Defence had done during the European Presidency, but when I heard the conversation in the Chamber, I thought of that Bulgarian joke. It is actually a reality in our history: why is there no guards in the Hell of the Bulgarian Cauldron? From the statements of a part of the opposition, I realized that the Bulgarian government is responsible for the case, although we did not expel Russian diplomats and were one of the very few countries in the European Union. I understood that we were almost guilty of the bombing of Syria, although, as you know, the Bulgarian government took an absolutely neutral, balanced position. I understand that we are responsible for the division in Europe and the tensions between Europe and the United States. Perhaps I thought very naively that our main ambition was to make progress in moving the Western Balkan countries towards NATO and the European Union. There, too, we have achieved success because everyone recognizes it, including the countries of the Western Balkans. They only neglected to praise us if we followed this logic for..Skripal, Syria, the division in Europe, the economic conflict with the US, the European Union, to praise us for warming the relations between the US and North Korea. At least that's what you should have praised us for, colleagues! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] So I'm not going to remind you about that wedding the groom asked who to trust, whether to believe the drum or anything else. I listen to what European politicians say. And including, not only for the organization, but also for the themes that the Bulgarian Presidency has put forward, we receive only positive assessments, for which I also thank Mrs. Mihailova - MEP, who gave a maximum objective assessment. With regard to other speeches, which also mentioned Prime Minister Borisov's instincts, I agree. This was the only true statement of Prime Minister Borisov's instinct. He really has instinct because a year and a couple of months ago he showed it when despite the knee pads, the plongees and all the downloads, he preferred the United Patriarchs for coalition partners. Thank you, colleagues. There's no need for more talk. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Now Mrs. Zaharieva has the floor. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u79	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the European Parliament, honourable Members! I think Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and Karakachanov explained well. It seems to me that we missed the blame for the trade war between the United States and China, but that's what we're gonna take. One thing, not only the assessment of the European leaders and ministers, and the leaders and ministers of the Western Balkan countries is important, and the assessment of the Bulgarian citizens is also important. And 81% confirmed that Bulgaria managed successfully. The particulars that was seen by all for the Western Balkans a strategy for the first time in five years with a clear time horizon. Initiating accession negotiations for Macedonia, Albania for NATO member, Bosnia and Herzegovina, efforts to activate the NATO membership plan. And the Sofia declaration.. the wreath, with a very clear time horizon and commitments, and money for the countries of the Western Balkans. I would also like to conclude with gratitude to the National Assembly, because despite some inaccuracies in previous speeches all the time, we felt the support of the External Committee and the Committee on European Affairs on the number of events in which we participated. Thank you, of course, to the Bulgarian diplomats and to all employees of the Ministry, who worked literally 24 hours a day for the Bulgarian Presidency to be successful. And I wouldn't say that the subject of the Western Balkans is a routine. Bulgaria managed to unblock the process for the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. This is the conclusion of each of the 28 EU members plus the six leaders of the Western Balkan countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The word is Minister Porozhanov.. Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u81	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers! The multi-annual financial framework, you all know, the calculations that followed the release of the net budget donor at Brexit, amounted to 12 billion on an annual basis plus the additional costs that accompanied the new policies, reached up to 20 billion. However, the annual financial framework, as presented, made a rather broad analysis and opportunities for new revenue. The Parties must make 11.4% more revenue as contributions on an annual basis. Large countries are deprived of some of the preferences in these contributions, of course, there are many, many other revenues. This is what enabled the initial apocalyptic paintings for a common agricultural policy budget, cohesion policy to be reduced by more than 10% in the framework to be reduced by only 5%. In the European Guarantee Fund, the reduction is 4%. This 4% reduction is not for all countries. With our external cohesion efforts, I can assure you, after all the meetings with the Commissioner and the European Parliament, it has already happened. The so-called external cohesion is made by one formula, so all major countries that have over 90% of the average subsidy to the European Union receive a 4% reduction. The rest of the formula has a reduction and some of the countries have an increase, such as the Baltic States, which had over 60% of the average subsidies. But this increase is 4%, not 12%, as indicated by very poorly informed. These are the first steps of external cohesion that are being taken in the European Union with the new budget. The common agricultural policy was set at all meetings. Of six meetings of five of them, she attended public meetings in which priorities were outlined. And it is no coincidence that we now have a debate on the three regulations that have been presented, a difficult debate, a complicated debate, because this is the most complex policy. This debate will be made with the agricultural community, with parliament, with all institutions. Finally, because today's protest was marked there is a protest at the time of sheep farmers, there is a part of them about 25% of one of the associations. Unfortunately, despite the conversations being conducted, there are unrealistic demands that cannot be met. On this issue, I will be able to respond to parliamentary control a little later, so I will save it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Mrs. Tsacheva, the Minister of Justice has the floor. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u83	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the House! The Bulgarian Presidency completed was the presidency of all state institutions in view of their competences and now is the time, here, from this platform, to express my gratitude for the support I have received during all these months from having to deal with the policies in the sector. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Legal Committee for their interest, and they regularly listened to me about the concrete progress. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u84	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u85	I thank the Bulgarian judiciary, the judiciary. Here it was heard that it had no relation, it was not included and no dialogue was held with it. This is deeply wrong, colleagues, because magistrates, judges, prosecutors, investigators, representatives of the administration of the Supreme Courts and the Prosecutor General's Office participated in all working groups. Only with their competence and efforts have we been able to successfully complete the tasks set out in the various policies that we have conducted on the various files and topics that are in the Justice Council. This is the time to say that all these months I have sought and received the support from the various political families in the European Parliament and the MPs from the different parliamentary groups in the Bulgarian Parliament. Gratitude to MEPs from all political families, because when a particular rapporteur was representing a political family and there was a need for political and not purely administrative intervention, as has been said in assessments both so far, and here, stated in the Chamber that you see, the Presidency is an excellent administrative job, but in political terms the results were not good. This is an understatement of the efforts of the Bulgarian MEPs. And here I would like to mention specifically those who are not present today Mr. Stanishev, as Vice-President of the LIBE Commission, Mrs. Husmenova, who I have personally sought and helped me in contacts with the rapporteurs from the LIBE Commission, all of whom I do not list by name. To conclude, I would like to say that the Bulgarian Presidency ended successfully because we managed in the first priority to seek and find consensus, agreement in a debate, in a hearing regime between the various institutions, between the various political forces, so that it cannot be regarded as a party event in any way. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u87	The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u88	The way you're running things? Come in the manner of conduct, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u89	Dear Prime Minister, Madam President, Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I ask you to follow the procedure in the manner of conduct, Madam President, to strictly comply with the rules voted on in the application of art. 128 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, voted on Wednesday. We had the opportunity to express our opinion on how to pass the hearing of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, did not comply with any proposal we made from the BSP for Bulgaria and now you are rudely breaking your own rules. Madam President, according to c. 4 of the rules adopted, we are in the procedure "Answers to questions raised in the speeches on this point. 2 and 3, understand from the different parliamentary groups and MEPs, and these answers to questions are from members of the Council of Ministers within 10 minutes. What question have the ministers so far answered, who have taken part in the procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] There were severe findings, there were questions waiting for their answer. Madam President, I pay attention to you once again to follow the rules and call on the ministers to answer questions and express those with which to refute the findings of those who have spoken on behalf of the parliamentary groups so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. I strictly follow the rules we agreed on Wednesday. We have few more than 10 minutes, which are noted in the rules, but the ministers have the right to take the floor at any time when they are present in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] We're done with the rules. [[Vices of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] We have a Constitution, Mr. Prime Minister. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 1 and the Staff Regulations. 65, too, where the following is said: The Council of Ministers shall have the right to be present in the Chamber and may take the floor whenever they request it. So we continue with the speeches. Minister Nankov, please come to the Minister of Regional Development for a specific response. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u91	Let the rules be followed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u92	The way you're running things? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u93	Dear Prime Minister, honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! The question has already been raised about the meaning of the adoption of rules that we made a few days ago. If you knew there was no point in taking t. 4 which contradicts the Constitution, as you just said, and the ministers can speak at any time on all subjects, then why are you offering it to us? If you are planning not to apply t uc 4 of the adopted rules, why should the other points apply? If you are the head of today's meeting, as President of the National Assembly, is it not clear in advance this situation? Introduce us to him and say that. 4 of today's Rules do not function for these and these reasons. At the very least to the ministers, the rules adopted by the National Assembly regulate the speeches and we are still not finding a report of the Council of Ministers today, but we are discussing the government's report on a specific issue for Bulgaria in the European Union. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] So I also express the bitterness of my colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group for the way you lead and the way the debate with the ministers is going.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u94	Mr. Zablyanov, I think you should be least bitter because I gave your parliamentary group 16 minutes! [[Noise and lines.]] I think there's another side of the room where they want to hear from you. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, in the manner of conduct. [[Heckling]] In the manner of conduct it is the procedure to advise me Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u95	Dear President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable MEPs, honourable colleagues! I recall as rapporteur for this report in which we are carrying out the procedure, I ask you, Madam President, to recall, it was recently the debate that, according to a report, every minister who wanted had the right to 10 minutes. And so it was in the fortyth, forty-first, forty-second National Assembly. That was the practice. And of these three parliaments GERB was only in one. That's why I offered 10 minutes. [[Heckling]] Not in general, Mr. Prime Minister, but for every minister, but colleagues from the DPS objected and said, "Let it be a total of 10 minutes." [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u96	Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u97	In order for there to be a compromise, we accepted colleague Hamid's proposal. That is why we have limited ourselves, but then I also told you: this request is contrary to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, because the ministers have the right at all times to speak in Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u98	Colleagues, since there is no interest in the ministers' applications, on the report presented by the Prime Minister today, no decision is adopted, so I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for informing us how the Presidency has been, to wish them a successful day [[the MPs become, applause to the right]] We're going on without a break. Take your seats, colleagues! [[Noise and lines, ministers and MPs leave the hall.]] Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I'll wait for the ministers to leave the Chamber. New questions for the period 6 " 12 July 2018" are not available. They've received written answers. Supplement to a written reply from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov. And a written answer from: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a request from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on four questions from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev. We move on to the first answer today. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova on the policy of the government on migration in Bulgaria and Europe. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u99	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues! I hope, in a calmer atmosphere, that we will now discuss with reason and reason a problem which has been a priority of the Presidency, but more important question of the future, because the Presidency has ended without it being resolved, and it weighs heavily on both Europe and Bulgaria's migration policy. Unfortunately, this issue has created many differences, faults and contradictions. Two questions are currently open: what to do with those migrants who are already in the territory of the European Union, and, a second, how to take measures against those who would come in the future? Dear colleagues, I think it is wise to admit that in 2015 Germany and Mrs Merkel made a grave mistake when they invited migrants to come to Europe and promised them a bright future, because in addition to the refugees from war to which the international community and Bulgaria under international law have commitments, many economic migrants have also come, perhaps migrants for environmental reasons and so on. As you can see, the state of the European Union is currently extremely difficult on this issue. In recent months of the Presidency, different countries have expressed different positions. For example, Italy firmly refused to accept any new quotas for migrants. The position of the Visegrad Four has long been clear: building walls between us instead of seeking unity and agreement in Europe. Recently, the policy of Austria and France has sharpened and changed, including with the speeches of their officials, Chancellor, foreign minister and so on, that they will not accept bilateral agreements on the return of migrants. In an attempt to save her head and her government, Mrs Merkel, and in an argument with Mr Zeehofer, their coalition minister in the government, proposed bilateral agreements and announced that they had them with 14 countries. Some of these countries rushed to deny such agreements. It moved on to a decision to make bases or platforms in African countries, only Africa did not know and African countries did not know about this decision and definitely refused to accept such a decision. It is in such a impasse, a lack of leadership and a solution to this problem that Europe is currently in place. What is the position of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u100	Your question, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u101	At the very least, incoherent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u102	Let's get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u103	Mr. Borisov stated several times different positions, such as... [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u104	Ask the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u105	I don't want migrants back, I won't let them go, I told Sebastian (Sebastian is Mr. Kurtz, the President of Austria) that I wouldn't let planes go, but, Mr. Borisov, from the Foreign Minister of Hungary we understand that you expressed the exact opposite position at the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u106	To the point, Mrs. Ninova! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u107	He says Bulgaria's proposal for migrant quotas is worrying and is not accepted. [[Noise, lines and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u108	Ask the question already! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u109	Wait a minute! Could you repeat that, because I'm about to make a scandal international! Exactly!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u110	I am reading what he has published: The latest proposal of Bulgaria for migrant quotas is disturbing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u111	Who says that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u112	Mr. Xiarto, Foreign Minister of Hungary, says so. Then he says: "The message that is sent with this proposal is, if enough come, they will be reassigned so that they come. And he says: "This proposal of Bulgaria is unacceptable. I quote it. So, my question, Mr. Borisov, is: in the end, what is Bulgaria's policy on this issue? Is there a decision of the government or do you express a personal position according to the situation and adjust to the people you discuss with? Is there a decision of the government... extremely, last, and what is it about this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister. Here you are, Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, the issue of migration, if it had been resolved and had there been a definite decision of the European Union, it would not have been rolling for so many years. On this subject, all the protocols and my speeches in the European Council and the extraordinary ones, at least five or six of those that have been made, are very clear and are being kept. And if there's one thing I have the clearest conscience on, it's migration. 2015 I clearly told everyone that what they are doing right now would lead to disaster. Clear and precise! I want some chronology: the migrant wave, the war in Syria, the war in Iraq, the war in Libya found all the countries unprepared, including Bulgaria. I'm a man who always tells the truth! This is very important because both your government and our government at first were unprepared, the gendarmerie was not well prepared, the border police were not prepared, we had no safety equipment, the forces were not deployed! A follow-up of parliamentary decisions, amendments to the law, and 320 million, which the European Commission has given for Bulgaria, new cars, new SUVs, thermal cameras, clothing, so far we can say that we are well guarding the external borders of Europe and absolutely all stressing this at all levels. You're quoting the Hungarian. I will now look for him to see what he said, but his premier himself, when he was in Bulgaria, and several times, with this beginning that Bulgaria is an example. So I'm gonna find this quote and ask him what he said after he put himself on the subject. We cannot say about these 60 thousand people who have passed through Bulgaria that we have kept the borders well because it is not true. Both your government and our government, we were not prepared for this. Now, for one and a half years, when the agreement with Turkey is going, they are making huge efforts, too, the problem is solved. That's why we have zero migration. If this is where we have to think about where our real problem is now, I will say that the real problem is not in the illegal, but in the legal migration, because with what we have signed when we enter the European Union, the Geneva Convention and everything else, everyone who comes to the border, the official checkpoint and asks for asylum, we are obliged to give it to him. And as soon as he is given this document, he becomes ours in quotes because if he is not accepted by Germany, Austria and so on, he has nowhere to go. Here are a few more questions. And I would very much like with you, despite our misunderstanding on many topics, to look at it very carefully! There are several underwater stones, including the Court of Justice in The Hague, and very carefully, as you have read what some Hungarian minister has said, we are closely monitored by at least five NGOs and a group of French lawyers for each statement on the subject, because the regulations on human rights are very clear. What are we supposed to do? At the first moment, when Bulgaria was filled with migrants, you all remember it - Harmanli, Ovcha coupel, Triage Station, what was on the streets here in Sofia, those 60 thousand passed. At the same time, because you are blaming Chancellor Merkel, you remember what hybrid war they had in Europe in the morning news from TV stations, if they give you recordings, you will see babies, children swimming in the waters and the ocean or the sea throwing them ashore, others threw them directly on the networks and policemen. There was huge pressure from NGOs and all kinds of organizations. And then it's a good thing she let them in, or else those 60,000 people would be here. Now, that is the question: legally past, which do not want them in Europe, to return to third countries. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Do I have one more minute? Can I finish the sentence? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u115	Come on in if the opposition doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u116	When they want to return them now, a few questions arise. First of all, don't they have rights? They have rights, they can't force them back. And here we need to focus, this is our chance. Secondly, when they return to Bulgaria, where should we keep them? In an open-ended center? Only we've got record players 40 times. And in the morning, we have a Syrian who gets caught at the border, and we bring him back to the center of an open type. We pick them up from the border, they're coming out again. They're coming out again. But if we were to do a prison, the NGOs would immediately say, "Wait, you can't keep them locked up." And here, indeed, if the legal thought, the legal thought, especially those who understand international law, from these particular details, if they give us... Yesterday I hope they don't get mad at me, but I went up to the Constitutional Court, I asked them, I told the judges, "You're the elite of thought." Those are my few problems. If you can decide how to sneak up on us to keep our country, at the same time... I was one of those countries that refused to sign an agreement. They were very angry because they all expected us to sign. We were the hardest. However, I also asked a reverse question: " What if they fill us up? A new wave of one million, two came, fought with Turkey and entered a million in Bulgaria, and all the borders are closed? Or we'll say, "Well, this is where they're gonna stand." We agreed to it at the time because we were the first ones to get into the wave. The huge influx was Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, and then they missed it to calm down. If they hadn't, would we be the most active with Orban right now, asking for a relocation to take them back? Romania does not get involved in the dispute because we are perfectly guarding both the sea and the river. We have six-seven, two-three. We're holding up, so. We, as a country, as people, as Bulgarians, must find a solution for legal migrants. If you think it's easy to prevail in the Council. The last Council told me that I was cynical, that I was brutal because I didn't want them to be returned. Many times and just like you said about Sebastian Kurtz. How do you imagine they'd return them to us on planes? And now there's some fake, yellow, nasty news again that Bezmer's nighttime we've been returning migrants with airplanes. So my position is a firm guard. And that was my suggestion: three things to come into effect at the same time, but when they can, they can come in at the same time. The first: protection of the external borders from all structures of the European Union - Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, Spain. Those are the hardest hits, let's call them. At the same time, the so-called platforms, because, as they first refused, then Libya and Prime Minister Conte signed a contract for such a centre. The mistake was that in their panic, because colleagues panicked, everyone started to enumerate countries - Libya, Tunisia, Algeria - whichever came of mind. If you remember then, because you are quoting me, I said: Not only have we not made a commitment, not only have I not signed an agreement, but as a result of the fact that it was clear that I did not wish to sign such a bilateral agreement, because under the Dublin Treaty only through a bilateral agreement can force them back to us, I expect there to be an answer below the cross, as is usually said. But anyway, I came there and here and the Council, and I have made my position clear. At first we were unprepared, now we are the best in the European Union. Then there was a huge migrant wave in Bulgaria. We wanted a relocation to spread across Europe and to be solidarity. Now that there is no such wave, in the fastest way, and the agreement with Turkey has shown that it works best with countries that we pay them anyway, we help them anyway, in African and other funds. In any case, to many colonial countries that have had such colonial slavery, Europe owes them. Those countries that did, however, have one. We didn't have, we weren't there. To help, to give more money and, accordingly, to such platforms, or as I call them, a Security Centre outside the territory of the European Union. That's when we do... Yesterday, fine, President Trump 4%, 5%, give money for arms. But nobody's saying, "Neither the United States nor Russia," "Give the migrants to us, and it cost us billions." It is my absolute position that this cannot be accepted because of the demographic appearance of our country, for many other reasons I have not agreed. I did not agree and I hope with the support of Parliament that we will hold this position because it will be seriously attacked. Greece agreed, Italy agreed, Spain agreed, from the border we are not because I believe that we do not deserve it either. First of all, we've always warned. Secondly, we have made the most of our efforts, both your government and ours. And third, we keep our commitments. Those who flee from war, okay, let's take care of five months, six months, seven months until the war is over, and immediately go to their homeland. That's my position. Oh, by the way, because you said about Hungary, they brought back 1,700, as far as I know. Thank you. Sorry about the weather, but I had to get up and finish it. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u117	Thank you, Prime Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mrs. Nino, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u118	Mr. Borisov, let's start one by one of those things you said. You have mentioned Hungary several times, as I have, of course, in my exhibition, the position of Mr Orban and ours and their proximity. On this occasion, my first specific question is: Mr. Orbán and the Visegrad Four, but personally he said: "Immigrants threaten the identity of the peoples of the Old Continent." You mentioned the word "demogrammography" and in the context of this, I ask you: what is the proximity of this thesis that migrants threaten, with a strategy which has adopted the Bulgarian Government of yours, in which you write that: "On the basis of this document is the understanding of the phenomenon of migration as a source of labour for the Bulgarian economy and as a positive factor in the demographic plan for the demographic crisis in Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u119	Ukrainians, Belarusians.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u120	Maybe it's from Ukrainians. Here's your signature. It says Boyko Borisov, who believes [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP]] that migrants will be a labour force for the economy and will solve our demographic problem. Do you confirm that in this strategy? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u121	You will answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u122	So you see the migratory flow as an opportunity to solve two problems of Bulgaria [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP]] To have children and to have labour. Is the first question true? Where are the patriots? Do you feel the same way about coalition partners? [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] My second question: years ago, Prime Minister, here on the stand I made that scandalous announcement, then a famous Decree No 208. Mr. Borisov, would you please inform the Bulgarian people what decree your government has adopted? Can I help you if you don't think of No 144 a new mandate of the government of Borisov concerning migrants, and what does this decree say? Please inform the Bulgarian people, not parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For an answer, Mr. Prime Minister. You've got three minutes to respond. I'll give you a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u124	You know, migrants aren't just the ones you're talking about. Thousands of Ukrainians, Belarusians, Moldovans, Besarab Bulgarians, Macedonians, Serbs are currently working in Bulgaria. And if you want, have a meeting with the business and offer them one... to the NSA to kick them out and see if they'll take it well. So I don't see what our argument is here. We are talking clearly about which migrants we are talking about and who would create a problem for us: those whom Europe has not liked and wants to return them to us. That's why we're so firm that this can't be allowed. And as for Decree No 208 and, like, colleague Radev after me, let him read them. It's the same as yours, I don't see any difference, even yours is heavier.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u125	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u126	But I say again, time is so dynamic in this area that regulations, decisions and advices are changing extremely dynamically. What you have said today tomorrow may be different in the context of Europeans, and that is why Europe has been so badly broken in the middle of this topic. We have made efforts with colleagues and the Visegrad Four to find some compromise, to say: 100, 1000 each, to take some part, only if all three things are triggered. Everyone was definitely against the reason that I insisted on telling us for how long: six months, five months. We're all human. If they fire rockets, Russians on one side, Americans on the other, French, English, whatever, and we'll run. We'll give them asylum, but to know five months, three months, two months, and then back to their birthplaces. We used to run like this when the Ottomans came. That's how we've been running, why do we forget it? However, they do not tell us: "Yes, you can keep them in the center for two months, three months, then send them back to where they came from. " Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u127	Thank you, Prime Minister. For your consideration, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u128	Mr. Borisov, you said a few false things. [[Loud shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Are Ukrainians, Moldovans and all those you have designated benefit from asylum or international protection status? [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Please don't confuse the two. We are talking about those migrants who, by decree and strategy, benefit from asylum or international protection. You will not get away in this simple way: It is about Ukrainians who have come to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u129	Who do I get out for?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u130	Read to me in your decrees what you wrote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u131	And what would you have signed?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u132	See, now I'm telling you the second thing that you said falsely: "They'll stay for two or three months and then they'll leave. "
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u133	I didn't say they'd stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u134	In Decree No 208, there was a time limit within which they could request asylum, receive and stay. In the new decree of the Council of Ministers, which I claim the Bulgarian society has not been informed.................................................... that this commitment, Mr. Borisov, has dropped................ You signed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u135	It won't last forever.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u136	Well, it's not gonna work, but I read papers. I don't believe your words anymore, do you understand? [[Loud shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Once it's like this, once it's like this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Here it is, 144. Come and have a look at it. After that, we're talking about rights. Colleagues, we must help people fleeing from war, but they should have in Bulgaria the rights of Bulgarian citizens, not more. In the same decree, Mr. Prime Minister, you recorded the following: The State Bulgaria provides the payment of hospital care for diagnosis and treatment in the medical facilities of persons who do not have income. Does the Bulgarian state pay Bulgarian citizens who do not have incomes, free health care, or does they go and who does, who does not pay, dies?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We are not against human rights and international law... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u137	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u138	...but we are for the rights of the Bulgarian people and for the protection of the Bulgarian national... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u139	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u140	Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President and colleagues! Since the topic has not been exhausted Mr. Borisov has once again presented quite controversial, we have collected signatures, we are submitting a request for a debate with a draft decision by which the National Assembly will assign to the Council of Ministers what to do on these topics. Here's the alternative to BSP! [[Sends signature to the President. Applause from BSP for Bulgaria, lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u141	Thank you. Colleagues, by letter No 854-00-51 [[Prime Minister Boyko Borisov leaves the hall, sent with applause by GERB and OP]] from 13 July 2017, submitted today at 11.21 p.m., a request was received for a debate on the question No 854-05-41 of 20 June 2018 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the policy of the government on migration in Europe and Bulgaria. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 68 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Members of the Chambers of Members of Parliament, more than one fifth, 48 of the Members of Parliament, to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I am calling for the debate on the questioning and voting of the draft decision on the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. We should thank Prime Minister Borisov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Minister Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MP Valentin Lambev, about the levels of domestic crime in the village of Kamen "Strazitsa Municipality," Veliko Tarnovo district. Here you go, Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Let's get back to the issues that every day excite all Bulgarian citizens, not that the issues we discussed until now were not as important, even more important. Dear Minister, I have been approached by residents of the village of Kamen, very worried and hurt by the constant raids and robberies of their homes. They showed to me that they already had to sleep with lights on and locked with several locks because of the constant burglaries and the theft of the house, and that they were afraid to go out. Citizens said that despite the presence of a police station in the village, they rarely saw police officers and, according to them, there were rare cases of thefts and other types of crimes. Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer me: for 2017 how much and of what nature are registered signals of crimes committed, how many files are filed, respectively the solved cases that concern statistics on detection? For the first half of 2018 compared to the previous year, is there growth or reductions in the findings, respectively, registered crimes, are police officers sufficient in view of the criminogenic situation? Is there a return of stolen property to the victim's owners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u143	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lambev! Kamen District at the District Department of Strazhitsa, serves the village of Kamen and six other settlements. The state of the precinct is of four employees: one head of the police department, one police inspector and two junior police inspectors. At the moment, the state is busy and there are no vacant posts. In 2017 in the village of Kamen were registered 24 signals of crimes committed, of which four were terminated due to lack of data on a crime committed, 17 were revealed. 80% disclosure rate, and 3 had an undiscovered perpetrator of a crime. By types of crimes are as follows: against the property of five, of which two have been discovered, two have been terminated and one is committed against an unknown perpetrator, in the case of the unsolved crimes are returned the stolen belongings of the victims; crimes of transport of 15 of which two have been terminated and 13 have been solved; crimes related to substances of concern of one revealed; hooliganism of one in which the operational and search activities continue; crimes against the youth of one revealed; crimes against the holding of one unsolved. For the first six months of 2018 14 crimes have been reported, of which four have been terminated, 7 - 70% revealed, three unsolved. As in 2017, as in 2018 in the village of Kamen, the municipality of Strazhitsa, there were no serious crimes against the person, murders, robberies, rapes and others. A large number of persons of interest to the police are on the line of phone fraud. Their monitoring shall be organised and the necessary preventive events shall be carried out. Since the beginning of 2018, three specialized police operations have been carried out with staff of the Directorate-General for National Police and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Veliko Tarnovo, under which five persons of interest have been detained. Three of them have been taken on a permanent basis to remain in custody for fraud committed in the town of Targovishte. For the purpose of organising and carrying out preventive activities by the police authorities of the Ministry of Interior, 12 files are opened and 12 files are kept for persons of interest under the e-mail fraud. Specialized police operations are carried out together with officers of the Zondarmary Department of Pleven, and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Veliko Tarnovo, and with the forces of the District Department of Strazhitsa. The aim is to prevent and cross crimes, to detect fraud perpetrators, home thefts, thefts of black and non-ferrous metals, to identify and apprehend persons declared missing. Car Patrols from the District Department of Strazhitsa provide public order security for the time from 19:00 to 07:00 in the morning, as well as traffic control for the time from 08.30 in the morning to 16.30 in the morning. In order to prevent violations of public order and crimes during weekends and holidays, specialized police operations shall be planned and carried out weekly. I believe that given the criminogenic situation, the number of police officers serving the locality is sufficient for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line, Mr. Lambev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u146	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister. What I would like to further develop is more like an appeal to you, as you mentioned it in your response. This is one of the phone fraud centers in Bulgaria and the feeling in people is about increased criminogenic environment in the settlement and in the surrounding villages. The appeal I make to you on behalf of the residents of these villages is to respect the criminal contingent and to promote this contingent, which resides or is registered in the locality, in order to restore trust in the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in order to have respect for the law enforcement authorities in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u147	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. Mr. Minister, will you take a stand? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lambev, the citizens came, informed me, told me. I was in Pleven, we did an analysis, I heard from all the mayors there from BSP, were all the mayor's deputies. I have warned them personally: "Please talk to me and tell me if there are problems. " - I have not heard such problems. You heard that there's an 80% disclosure rate. I'm sure people are suffering. There's something out there, but it's not in the red areas in the meaning of the map, in this region they're not dark red. I agree with the phone scams. Big whip. There are 80% unsolvability of other crimes, and phone fraud is not the case. There's 22%, but not just us, that's international practice. It's very difficult. They're on the north side. I have told this story before with Romania, we are doing literally the impossible, but due to some European Union rules, Romanian colleagues are having a hard time helping us get into the addresses. Not to get into the details now that there won't be time, but that's what we're doing. I'm saying this on these microphones so that by asking citizens there to hear it, they don't trust others. The police will call them if they have to. Money nobody wants, the police never ask them for money. Let them hear that one more time. Otherwise, I'm grateful for their trust.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from MP Filip Popov and MP Tsvetan Topchiev. It is about actions being taken to prevent accidents on the E-79 road in the Vidin section of Montana. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, about three months ago I had asked you a written question with the following content: This means, dear Minister, that a week on this small stretch of 15 kilometers, there is at least one traffic accident. A few days ago, on 3 July 2018, on a larger stretch, again on the E-79 road, which is also so neural and heavy: Vidin.. Montana, there was another incident in which a truck entered a house on the road from that section, as a result of which, unfortunately, there were victims. Therefore, our question to you is: what preventive measures has the Ministry of Internal Affairs taken if not to fully rewind, then at least to limit the non-compliance of accidents in the Vidin section of Montana, from the E-79 road? That is our question, dear Minister. The people of Vidin and Montana often ask us this question because, unfortunately, up to now, despite this startling statistic, they do not see or sense any measures to be taken in order to limit traffic accidents in this difficult area, especially now in the summer months when traffic has increased further. Please, for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov and Mr. Topchiev! In view of the summer tourist season, increased traffic from transiting foreign nationals and the construction and repair activities carried out, a temporary organisation of the movement along sections of the Republican road network has been introduced. In order to avoid the occurrence of heavy crashes, intensive controls shall be carried out on vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of up to 12 tonnes, including the composition of trailers and semi-trailers, agricultural machinery and so on. An organization has been established to stop heavy traffic at certain hours. We announce it all the time. The National Police Directorate General and the Road Infrastructure Agency are carrying out joint control in the border crossing area of the Danube Bridge, which started this year on 20 June and will continue until the end of September. On 28 June 2010 in Gyurgevo were signed Rules for joint action of road police in the border regions and joint patrol-post action for the protection of public order by the competent authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. In this regard, an organization has been established in the current year to form joint teams in border areas. Bulgarian and Romanian road police provide the necessary control of compliance with speed regimes, alcohol use, registration and others. In order to limit traffic traumatism and ensure the safety of traffic along the country's roads, the Ministry of Interior is conducting preventive campaigns. For example, a police action will take place between 1 July and 31 August 2018. Police forces are mainly headed for intensive traffic stations. At problematic road nodes, intersections and road sections, traffic will be assisted by setting on-site. In the period June "August 2018" is held the traditional action "Vacation." Keep the children's lives on the road! The arrangement of road traffic control forces and routes, posts and control positions shall be precise. The traffic control includes the employees from the structural units of the Terri and the police with the powers to work under the Road Traffic Act and the Insurance Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the importers Mr. Topchiev, you will take the opportunity to reply. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, to put it mildly, I am not satisfied with your response even at all. You have shown no commitment, no empathy to this problem, despite the fact that every week a traffic accident is taking place in this area and a serious one. You've been quoting some form of blanks you're about to take. This isn't helping. We need concrete action. The government in which you are, with its decision, has taken some action to build a new path, but this time I do not know when or whether it will happen at all. Road accidents in this area continue. And you, as a responsible state factor, must take action in this regard. People should feel safe on the road. The road police have almost become a branch of the NRA. They are hidden in the bushes and do nothing but pictures, and send out tickets. They should be in the field. In this area there are several neural places where traffic accidents happen all the time. You didn't say if any analysis was done and what kind of action would be taken in such a way? That's why I'm extremely dissatisfied with your answer. I've prepared pictures of you from the last few weeks with traffic accidents, which I think will involve your attention to take concrete action to prevent traffic accidents and not to make worse things happen. [[Passing photos of Minister Valentin Radev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, would you care to take a look at the line? You have the opportunity for a dot...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Popov and Topchiev! You're extremely dissatisfied with the answer. I'm extremely dissatisfied with your question. Whatever you're asking me, I'm answering you specifically. Ask me what you pointed out the second time, and I will answer it specifically. Can I read you the question? Let's not waste time. What preventative measures? I read you what we're doing. You want something concrete.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u157	You're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u158	Yeah, according to you. Listen carefully, here, I tell you: twice... [[Reply from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev.]] The National Assembly has twice increased fines for speeding. This applies also to the road Vidin "Montana." You're no exception. That's what the police have done. I told you: we have increased the police and those who are not cataclysers, so to speak, some of the Transport Police are put there so that they can fine the entire country. You're no exception. That's what we've done. After that. Saturday and Sunday, you know, we stop between 2:00 and 2:00. I told you about the Romanian cops, we're already following them from there. Traffic is such a thing, Romania, and it goes to Greece. Where they go, they know, tourists. That's what we do with them. This hasn't even been done years ago. Cars. We've given new cars, including in this area. I'm sure you've seen the new ones, with the lights, with the duty-free fuel. What else can we do?! They're killing each other on the road. We keep calling them. You've heard me on TV, and now I'm saying it: watch out! You're asking me, what's going on, Vidin? Do you know what else I can show you from other areas? The Ministry is responsible for the whole of Bulgaria. You're only asking me about Vidin, Montana. That's what we do there and everywhere. I only didn't get you out because you didn't ask me. I'm gonna pull you out of the section of Ruse, see if you can ask me about Vidin Montana. It's not that you don't have to do it, I'm just telling you: you're not so different. We're taking care of the whole country, including this area. We are very careful precisely because of what you said about the Romanian tourists. It's done there. You didn't really like the answer. You ask specifically and specifically answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Those were your questions. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. We continue with a question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, who will answer a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov regarding the policy of the Ministry of Energy regarding guaranteeing the security of natural gas supplies. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u160	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Madame and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the question I am about to make is important not only for the energy security of Bulgaria, but also for Europe. Why is that? Firstly, the European Union has a growing need for natural gas by 2050, as it is an energy source that can guarantee the Old Continent economic prosperity and clean air. Our partners in the EU are aware of the International Energy Agency's forecast that natural gas consumption in Europe will grow from 10% to 20% per year by 2030 and from the current 536 billion. Cube. m gas to 592, respectively 640 billion. Cube. m. At the same time Europe's own stocks decreased and while in 2010 the Old Continent satisfied 38% of consumption through its own income, in a 23-year future horizon this share will fall to 18% Secondly, in the presentation of the ideas for a gas distributor, Balkan to investors in Brussels in early June also showed an increase in natural gas needs in Southeast Europe by about 40 billion. Cube. m of gas. Thirdly, according to data from a large-scale survey of the German Institute for Economic Research 2013 Bulgaria is one of the three countries in Europe that has the opportunity to increase the consumption of natural gas within the framework of the Carbon Reduction Strategy. A leader in the region by 2030 is expected to be Greece by 126%, followed by Spain by 30% and Bulgaria by 26%. In other words, Bulgaria has an immediate interest in increasing natural gas consumption by at least a quarter to ensure that it will not pay rising carbon fines by 2030. Once again, Bulgaria has been in a position that is adequate to our geostrategic position, a point of entry of the South Stream, the European Union and a key role in the transportation of gas to Europe. The project gives us the opportunity to profit not only from discounts in the price and transit fees, gives us the opportunity to win national security, including increasing our energy security, Black Sea cooperation, improving the infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria and not least additional jobs. In this regard, Madam Minister, given your obligations under the Energy Act regarding gas security, which are listed in art. 4, para. 1, t. 4a, 6 and 16 I will not read them, you know them to save time, my question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Energy to ensure the security of natural gas supplies and also the development of the transmission network, including the transit of gas across Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u162	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for the subject. As you mentioned, the issue of security of natural gas supplies is extremely important. It concerns not only the sector of the country's national security and not just our country's, each country's. In this context, it is also directly related to security within Europe, our European family. What the Bulgarian government is doing in this extremely important area, related to ensuring energy security and the security of natural gas supplies, is clearly written in our Management Program. We strictly follow our priorities which provide, first of all, diversification of sources of natural gas supply, as we know that in order to be able to talk about security of supply, competitive prices, we must have at least two, three different sources of natural gas supply. Over the past few years, I dare say, we have been working extremely purposefully in this direction. What do we do to ensure energy security and ensure the competitiveness of our economy through this extremely important energy resource, such as natural gas? In 2016, the first interconnection interconnector Bulgaria was implemented, which is also extremely important not only for Bulgaria, but also for the whole region. We are working exclusively on the construction of the interconnector Greece. You know, this is a project of strategic importance not only for Bulgaria and Greece, it is of strategic importance for the entire region of Southeast Europe. It is not for a reason that this project is included in the European Union's seven top priorities in terms of energy security. Three public procurements related to the realization of the project are under way: selection of a pipe supplier; engineer consultant for the project; selection of a builder. At present, the three public contracts are under way. By the end of the year the realization of the project will begin. By 2020, the project will be put into commercial operation. I say so convinced that it will be put into commercial exploitation because we have specific commitments regarding the delivery of 1 billion. Cube. m gas on the side of Sugar, with which we have a contract. This contract is committed to specific dates, with specific parameters to be met, so by the end of 2020. Bulgaria will have another source for natural gas supply. We are also working on building the interconnection with Serbia, and we are also working on a very important part of our actions to respect and care for our energy security, as this interconnection is also extremely important for the whole region. Its construction, however, the construction of the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, are related to each other, as this is the purpose and meaning of the gas interconnection Greece.. Bulgaria.. to connect us to the southern gas corridor and from now on the whole region to have the opportunity to supply natural gas from different sources. When we talk about energy security, undoubtedly the concept of building a gas distribution centre in Bulgaria occupies a very important place. The other day we had the opportunity to present to your attention the concept of realization of this project within the framework of the Energy Committee. Conditionally speaking, this means building the missing infrastructure that will enable us to supply natural gas from different sources. This represents the gas hub "Balkan" and, secondly, this is a natural gas trading platform, which in practice guarantees the liberalisation of the natural gas trading market, competitiveness, competition and competitiveness of the economy and of consumers who will benefit from these quantities of natural gas. When we talk about energy security, we also need to take into account what has already been done the construction of Looping Lozenets and Nedyalsko. This is the transit pipeline for Turkey, whose capacity has been increased. We also built a compressor station that allows us to provide a reverse flow in the opposite direction from Turkey to Bulgaria. So far, the direction has been Bulgaria, Turkey, now we have the opportunity to implement a reverse flow, and the capacity is also increased, which is approximately 15 billion. Cube. m of gas. We are working extremely purposefully in this direction, and the facts are there. Here the necessary attention must also be paid to the underground gas repository in Chiren, with regard to whose capacity we also work to increase. This capacity is currently 500 million. Cube. m of gas per year, with our objective being the capacity of the underground gas repository in Chiren to reach 1 billion. Cube. m of gas. This is also an undisputed guarantee for security of supply, in general for all the country's energy security, respectively, for our national security. I use this case to thank my fellow Members from Parliament, all of you, the members of the Energy Commission, that whenever it comes to such important projects, we have managed to unite and really work for the good of Bulgaria. Thank you. I am ready to answer questions that you think should be discussed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have the opportunity to ask two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u164	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, in your answer you have introduced us to the problems related to gas supplies for the needs of the country and transit. We understand that there is an idea for changing the gas point from Russia, you mentioned it, with increasing the potential for the interconnectors, but we did not understand what is being done and are the negotiations on a direct pipeline to Bulgaria as you presented it in Brussels. You have failed to inform us what actions you have taken in the exercise of the powers referred to in paragraph 16. 1 of art. 4 of the Energy Act, for example, about the permission to search and study energy resources. In this regard, my supplementary questions are two: what is done more precisely by the Ministry of Energy to expand the possibilities for exploring the presence of new gas deposits in the territory of Bulgaria, both in the economic and marine areas? The second question: is there any interest and what has been undertaken on the occasion of the construction of a second gas storage facility, which is a necessary prerequisite for the construction of a gas divider
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, local mining is undoubtedly one of the very important priorities, one of the very serious guarantees for energy security, and this is no accident. There is no greater diversification than if the designated country has local production. You know that in two more offices of Prime Minister Borisov, in 2012 a procedure for selecting companies to carry out search and survey in the deep Black Sea was launched. The companies "Total Rapsol" and OMV won this tender and since then carried out this search and survey procedure and it is continuing. We extended the contract at the request of the three companies. It was extended for another two years so that searchers and research activities can continue in the deep Black Sea. To date, we have not been provided with official data from the three companies about what the specific results are, as this is confidential information and they have a commitment to inform us at a certain stage of their search and research activities. The fact that the contract was extended at the request of the three companies by two more years means that I think there are good prospects in the block of Han Asparuh. We also started the search and survey procedure in the block of Silistar. You know the company there won the tender and are currently running search and research activities. We are preparing a search and survey procedure for another block in the deep Black Sea and it will be submitted to the Council of Ministers very soon. We are working in this direction and I think that if these searches and studies in the deep Black Sea are successful, this will be a great success for Bulgaria, a great success for the Bulgarian economy. Regarding the question you asked regarding the licensing of a second gas repository in Bulgaria. As you know, a change in the Energy Act has been made. This type of activity is given the opportunity to be carried out by another operator. A letter from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission concerning a request from one potential operator has been received at the Ministry of Energy. Of course, opinions are currently being drawn up, as this is a new legal framework in this direction, so legal opinions are being prepared and, from a technical point of view, an opinion will be given to the Regulator accordingly. It is within its competence to assess whether there are any legal grounds for further steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u167	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Come in for your treatment, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u168	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for the answer and the back. My observations are that despite the support that we from the opposition provide to the Ministry that you run, the work on the strategic sites is slowing down. From my humble experience with the administration, I believe that this is not a result of a strategic decision not to work on this issue, but rather from its understatement, I guess not from you, but rather from the administration of the Ministry. This morning we heard the report on the European Presidency, but instead of the good impression, which was the main thing that Bulgaria was trying to make in person my hope was that during these months, the Ministry of Energy, which you led, should have paid more attention to the issues related to natural gas. In this regard, the project included in the Energy Strategy for a second gas storage facility, which you mentioned, which has been stuck in the administration for more than ten years and in administrative irregularities, I hope it will receive your support, as provided for in the pre-project study for the gas hub. I would like to confirm that it is with our efforts to support the opposition in particular and the members of the Energy Commission in the National Assembly that the legislative changes to make the project possible have been adopted, now it remains for you to support it before the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Looking at the legislative changes proposed soon by the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask: how many criminal procedures against Bulgaria must be initiated in order to apply the Third Energy Package in its full form? In this regard, I ask you to inform us of the content of the documents with which this procedure has been initiated and how it is handled in this regard. With regard to the recently adopted decisions by the Council of Ministers for the search and exploration of natural gas, we notice that even the extension of the time limit for the studies in the block of Han Asparuh is delayed by several months. Please take the necessary action in case there is no administrative capacity for the timely preparation of the necessary documents. Personally, I have met with investors' representatives years ago, and there is hardly any MP who does not share the opinion that it is through investments in own production that Bulgaria can achieve its long-term goals most effectively. That is why it is totally unacceptable to have any delay in administrative service by such huge investors who make an unprecedented investment campaign at their risk. I would like to let you know, and you know that recently there was a meeting with representatives of the American investor who won the gas research contest in Vratsa. I do not understand how fresh priorities that are supported by the entire National Assembly are possible, and if there is an obvious need to continue the search and research activities, as well as the extraction of natural gas, for administrative or other reasons, these investments are delayed?! The other day, once again, you announced that the study of the new block in the Black Sea, which is no longer This is the first point in your 2017 Management Programme. In the energy sphere, one year has not even started the competition. It is also unclear what are the reasons for this, and I mean that if we need six months, there should be at least six months to submit tenders after the tender is announced, months to sign the contract. This long-term process is delayed, and if this is done for administrative reasons, despite the political will to do so, it is unacceptable, Madam Minister. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm saying this very seriously. He's not blaming you, he's blaming all the work he's doing. It is these few considerations that are at the heart of my questioning...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u169	A minute and a half more...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u170	One more sentence and I'm done. ...and I hope the Ministry makes the necessary efforts to make this delay catch up. I ask the questions about the demand and exploration of oil and gas to find their place in the project of the Sustainable Energy Development Strategy of the country, which I hope the Ministry will prepare and be provided to us as soon as possible, as was taken by the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I've allowed you to delay time because of the reciprocal time saved when you asked the supplementary questions. Allow me to thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control by Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. We continue with the questions to Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The first question he will answer is asked by the MP Yordan Mladenov about helping the rose producers. Here you are, dear Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, dear Mr. Porozhanov! Dear Minister, in May, in a series of meetings with the rose producers about the low buying-in price and the protests that were at that time, repeatedly you promised that there would be support from the Ministry of Agriculture and the State towards the rose producers. A decision of the Management Board of the State Fund on 11 June took a decision by 500 thousand. lv. to assist in the exhibitions of dogs, dairy producers, producers of peaches and others, and only 2 million. 200,000. lv. of the rose producers. Given that there are about 40 thousand in Bulgaria. eka plantations, at average yield this year about 400 kg per decare, it is obtained that you support rose producers with only 13 pennies per kilogram. My question to you is this: do you think this is the necessary support for rose producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u173	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u174	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mladenov, State aid is an additional tool for supporting the agricultural sector and is provided targeted in priority directions, such as by applying objectives to increase the competitiveness of the industry and ensure more stable incomes. They've written me a very long exhibition here to bore you with all this stuff. The aid for participation in exhibitions, both in and outside the country, has been notified State aid, on which we have allocated not 500 thousand but a million and a half. Within this one million and a half are viewed at absolutely all associations, of all types of producers: livestock, plant production, fruit and vegetables, of course, and the processing industry, so that they have the opportunity to, of course, try to balance this resource within this million and a half and depending on the costs they carry out at one or another exhibition, we make a balance so that everyone can be satisfied in order to have their representation and coverage. The other state aid is de minimis. It is by regulation. You know the terms of it are up to 15,000. EUR which a farmer may receive within three years. You know very well that we have debated it in several meetings and in the Commission. The problem of buying, precisely in the peaks of flowering, were days within a week, was quite serious in terms of the fact that it could not be revised this color, which simultaneously blossomed, both at the lower altitude and in the mountain skates. Then normalizing buying-in, of course, a major problem was also for those who did not have contracts to buy their production. The value of roses has repeatedly debated both with producers, with processors, with the Institute and so on, it is rounded up to two levs. That's 400 kilos of yield. Of course, each manufacturer is different. This year, however, the yields were over 400 kg. Purchased prices, which at the end of the buying-in period for the different producers are between BGN 2 and BGN 2.50, you correctly noted that so far we have for the submitted aid 35 thousand. eka aid applications, perhaps they will reach 40, since we have over 40 thousand. This represents about 13 pennies per producer. In parallel, you know that they are all using state aid, which is also between 11 and 12 pennies. In the context of the cost, in the context of the costs they have incurred and the revenues at these average prices, we believe that, with this support, both under the State aid and under the de minimise, it is possible for them to upgrade some income on pink production. Yes, these incomes are not like last year's when prices exceeded the average of four levs. This is now a market situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u175	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but you yourself know that this trend with low pink prices will not be just this year, Mr Minister. We have talked with you on several occasions in the Committee on Agriculture and Food to have tied support for these rose producers if we want to keep this sector. This year the average buying-in price was about BGN 2,20, and we all know that this is the price of which is the production work, spraying and all the tools for the production of the color. These people are going bankrupt. Here is an even bigger problem that these are small farmers who expect support from the state so that they can stand for the next few years when aid is expected from the state and the global market generally reduces the price of rose oil and hence the buying price of pink. Your response does not satisfy me, and I am counting on the Ministry to review its activities, to consider, through omnibus, putting itself into tied support for rose production, so that this sector can actually remain in agriculture and not as other sectors before bankruptcy and shutting down small farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u178	Thank you. A very brief comment I agree with what you say. Only as additional information. You know that we are now underway with Mayan gatherings to prepare the Rose Act, which regulates the production, buying, processing and quality of the rose oil that comes out. The group was very large, you know... absolutely all interested parties participated in writing the Law and there was a public discussion this Tuesday, if I am not mistaken, in Kazanlak. At the meeting, which was held in Kazanlak, I would like to tell you that the rose producers are pleased, express satisfaction with the fact that they are receiving assistance. No one expected any profits to pile up at the expense of help? de minimis, which would restore last year's good prices. The problem of binding production is as follows: only industries that have not developed in recent years can apply in tied production. In recent years, we've had a sharp increase in plantations. You know the numbers. The last years we had between 10 and 14% annual growth. This is also one of the problems that has created tensions in the price drop, along with the climate conditions that have surprised all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev on the strategic vision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in order to stop the depopulation of rural areas by implementing a global strategy for the renewal of generations. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It's an extremely important topic. Clearly, there's no way to look at it in a few minutes. Dear Minister, on 27 October 2016, a resolution of the European Parliament was adopted on the way in which the common agricultural policy can improve the creation of jobs in rural areas. It calls on all Member States to offer long-term prospects to young farmers with a view to suspending rural depopulation, to implement a global strategy for the renewal of generations and to this end to make full use of all the opportunities that the new common agricultural policy provides to support young and newly established farmers, including outside the family, and in particular through aid to young farmers under the first and second pillars, and also to facilitate the start of agricultural activities and entrepreneurship for farmers over 40 years of age. These measures must also be complemented by provisions under national policies, as well as be in line with them on land use, taxation, social security and so on, including assistance under art. Art. 50, Art. 51 of Regulation of the European Union No 1307/2013 Dear Minister, from a legislative point of view, it is clear from regulations and directives that this is an extremely important complex issue for solving both in Europe and in Bulgaria, but is it in practice so? Unfortunately, the existing payment system on the food chain does not guarantee a sustainable distribution of added value and often does not allow primary producers to even recover their costs. A fresh example of this are the problems with rose producers, cherry producers and so on. Therefore, the important issue related to the cessation of the depopulation of rural areas through the renewal of generations is: what should be the model of Bulgaria's agricultural policy and food production in the coming decades? This requires, first of all, the reformation of national agricultural policy in the implementation of the new common agricultural policy. In this regard, my question to you is: what are the specific measures and strategic vision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in order to stop depopulation of rural areas through the implementation of the global strategy for the renewal of generations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u182	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, first of all, I will open a clamp with regard to the distribution of the added value in the food chain and I will be back about a month ago. In the Regulation on Fruit and Vegetables Delivery, in which the Ministry wanted to restore the preference for producers, you of the parliamentary group came out with a declaration in which you wanted to preserve the status quo, namely traders and more precisely the intermediaries in the chain, who had over 90% of the supply and more than 95% of the fruit and vegetables. Therefore, we must really encourage producers to be able to have direct market access each time. Of course, depopulation and ageing of rural populations requires the search for effective solutions to attract young people to the agriculture and rural sector. One of the main factors of this trend is the difficulties that young farmers face when starting agricultural activities. There are a number of obstacles preventing establishment in the sector, such as access by young people to agricultural land. This is a topic which, when preparing a law or code for land relations, must find some solution for easier access, including to the State Land Fund, their access to funding or capital, access to specialised education and increased professional qualifications. I should point out that the still existing public perception of agriculture as an unattractive profession is a composite element of the above-mentioned obstacles. It was also a coincidence that the topic we chose at the informal meeting of ministers during the Bulgarian Presidency was devoted to the renewal of generations in the agricultural sector within the framework of the future common agricultural policy, because we wanted this issue to be one of the priorities of the common agricultural policy after 2020, while also being dictated by the alarming trend throughout the European Union for ageing the population engaged in agricultural activity and depopulation of rural areas. The new legislative proposals provide for the Strategy to attract more young people into the sector to be a mandatory condition for the approval of the Strategic Plan for each Member State in the new programming period, that measures for the national level of the Member States are to be adopted mandatory or voluntary, such as financial reliefs or at least 2% of the new budget of direct payments should be aimed at young farmers. Up to 100,000. EUR shall be allowed to increase the initial aid for the establishment of holdings of young farmers. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has already taken action to draw up a Digital Agriculture Strategy, which will formulate priorities and policy objectives in the field of digital transformation of agriculture and set specific measures and activities for their implementation. An extremely important topic, which, in addition to keeping our agriculture competitive, has the opportunity to restore young people to work precisely with higher agricultural technologies. Young farmers are capitalists to implement the transition to digital agriculture, which will boost labour productivity. In recent years, our country has seen increased interest from young people in the development of business in the field of agriculture, which is largely due to the provided in the last decade and aimed at ensuring continuity between generations and promoting entrepreneurship among young people. I think I answered a similar question last time. Then we also exposed a lot of data from the point of view of the support itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev. You have the opportunity to make a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Two words for the declaration. Of course, the Bulgarian Socialist Party supports producers, but we are also about equality in the system of agriculture and agricultural problems. The Bulgarian agricultural territory is able to feed the population fully with the climate-geographically permissible limiter for production and assortment of products. The concept of Bulgaria's land to feed the Bulgarian population and when it is called "Agrarian policy," to understand the food and vice versa, is in the highest levels of public consciousness. Dear Minister, what are the elements of state agricultural policy and practice in agrarian developed countries? By the way, so was Bulgaria before 1989. All this is directly related to the choice of the model of agricultural policy, which for Bulgaria is not yet clear. Today there are two main models of structuring of agriculture and the food sector in the European Union. First, a super-intense model of industrial or, more precisely, super-intensive post-industrial food production. The second model is the so-called..... related to food policy. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria, after our accession to the European Union and implementation of the common agricultural policy, the analysis shows that the national agricultural policy is aimed at stimulating and growing over-intensity crops, mainly grain. However, there are no incentives and mechanisms for it to be revised in the country to a final consumer product, and as is known, the best measure for the economic effectiveness of the integration of sub-sectors in the food sector is the added value. When the grain is processed into flour, the added value is almost twice as high as the grain produced and exported as raw material. Unfortunately, the country barely exports flour, therefore it loses added value. If the flour has been processed into bread, bread and other pasta, the added value is increased significantly by 2.2 times, even more so that more than three times the added value is increased if feed is produced. From local products, value added increases nearly 13 times. Here is an example and opportunities for job creation, production, rural enterprises and reducing depopulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u186	Thank you. Agreeing with you, I just want to give you a few concrete examples. Two months ago in Razgrad was opened the expansion of the corn processing plant, where at the current capacity 400 thousand tonnes will be processed, i.e. it will grow by 400 000 tonnes and more than 80% of the grain is bought from Bulgaria. Only in the last two months, when there is no grain available from Bulgaria, it is taken from neighbouring countries. At this very moment we have specialists from a Middle Eastern state from Saudi Arabia, with whom we are in the process and in preparation for the construction of a plant for processing feed. The proposal we have given and they asked for a larger one is for 500 thousand tons of feed. Again, we are talking about the processing of cereals in the country. In parallel with that, you know, the other day the Chinese forum ended. The Chinese minister and I had a meeting, we expect investments. He's got Chinese investments right now. They want to do two more, which are of total capacity, I will lie to you about capacity, but are more than 1 million tonnes. So there are possibilities and conditions for processing, in this case for feed. It is certainly very good if all wheat can be exported on flour, but, you know, these are already market instruments, but I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question asked to you. He is from the MP Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova regarding the cancellation of art. 23 of Ordinance No 3/2015 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the conditions and procedures for the implementation of direct payments schemes. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u188	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I start by saying that by Decision No 8966 of 2 July 2018, the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria repealed the provisions of art. 23 of Regulation No 3, which concerns, as has already been said, the application of direct payment schemes. What was canceled basically means that the action of art. 23, para. 4 which requires proof of the estimated amount of cow and goat milk of 70 litres for the period 1 October I must tell you that this decision is true, you are saying that it is a surprise, but I must remind you that the resistance to the 2016 decisions in the vote on the Ordinance, in its discussion in 2017, too, was directed against the requirements for proving a quantity of milk, because such a European regulation and practice did not exist until then. From this point of view, what is included in the annulment of the regulation shows that there was still some problem and circumvention of the requirements for Bulgarian farmers compared to those in European countries. The specific question to you relates to this: firstly, whether the farmers concerned from the payments for 2017. supposed support will receive a compensatory payment? In a way, I have heard an answer to your question, and I suppose you have arguments in that direction. Second, for the 2018 campaign for which the submission of the documents was completed, what will they be and will there be requirements for livestock farmers to prove the amount of production produced as until now was the operation of art. 23, para. Four? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u189	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u190	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, perplexing in the cancellation of this article. 23 is precisely that the three-member composition in no way had any doubts about... At the meetings of the five-member panel, including the prosecutor from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, agrees with the arguments that are under the Ordinance, then, of course, suddenly with motives that I still should not comment on, I will take appropriate action where we can be sorry, as they say, I will do so, in my haste even cancel out art. 23, because the request is against the arguments relating to the latest version of 2017 and not 2016 which is without proof of production. So right now we have a legal vacuum. Currently, tied production for the sector "Instructions" thanks to the cancellation of art. 23, can't be paid. Of course, it will be paid. That's why we also had meetings with sheep breeding associations. And on Thursday, I had a meeting, and Tuesday, with those who were circling the country to organise this protest today, which we will talk about perhaps a little later. But we're going to rebuild art. 23, so that by the end of August, early September, it could enter into force, following absolutely all procedures under the Law on Legislative Acts. In this case, we have also done an assessment of compliance. But we're having meetings with associations right now to see their opinion. Different opinions. Of course, as it was before. Let us not forget that we have, at the moment, in 2016, a sent way in which binding production will be paid for in the European Commission. This way is agreed, here is not approved by a solution, but if there are questions, they are specified. And the way we can change it by August 1st, because we, by all the production schemes, have to send it by August 1st, including for fruit and vegetables, for which we have already had two long meetings with portfolio associations and we have a vision of how to change things there, we have to send it by August 1st and this thing can already enter into force in the 2019 campaign. So we will do our best to pay the campaign for 2018. But it cannot be paid differently than the way it was made to the European Commission as a notification and, of course, the rules under which the campaign started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u191	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u192	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we understand that there will be no change in 2018 compared to 2017. That is, your requirements for the amount of milk produced this year will be a fact. However, I would like to introduce you to some facts, especially in dairy farming. In the years of applying this requirement, i.e. these two years, according to agrostatistics, the quantity of sheep's milk produced has decreased by 13%. The number of animals by 5%. It's similar with cow's milk. That is, the first thesis that by this decision we reduce the grey sector is not true because we do not reduce the gray sector, we reduce the production of raw material in Bulgaria at all, for which the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible. Secondly, the burden falls entirely on milk producers. Why? Because the buying-in price of milk, you say it also with the decision of the State Fund...................... is constantly decreasing. Currently, cow's milk is bought from 45 to 70 pcs, an average price of 62, which means that for those who have the entire production cycle, 70 is calculated, but for those who are buying out from livestock farmers it is 45 pcs. It's the same with sheep's milk. And the third thing is that dairy cattle and sheep farming are going down completely, at the expense of meat production. In Bulgaria, never in socialism, and now there has been a cost-effective meat breeding and cattle farming. But in order to avoid the requirement to prove milk, mass animals were listed as meat breeds. With such a policy in the next agrostatistics, which will come out 2019, I guess the situation will be even worse and then there will be no one to be supported, especially in the field of sheep farming, as a traditional Bulgarian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u193	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u194	You must have no doubt that there will be someone to assist. If you are now calling for us to violate the European requirements for notification of aid, and these are the funds under the Guarantee Fund under the tied procedure and then not to be reimbursed by the European Commission, I do not think that is what you meant. With regard to prices, especially sheep's milk, yes, it is normal at the moment, since yesterday I have been consulted, of course, at the moment when examples are given by protesters today is, always the example will be of the worst single case, of the smallest producer, which, for example, is the most challenging in this process. And at the moment, the prices of sheep's milk on large farms are between 1.10 and 1.35. Yeah, for the little ones, it's between 90s. And 1 lv. But you know that at the moment and the quality of the milk itself is getting worse for certain reasons, because the breeding of the animals themselves is already beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u195	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. There are two questions that will be answered together because they concern the same matter. First is the question, which was asked by the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov and Todor Bajchev, about the findings of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests led to a mass massacre by the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety in Strandzha Mountain due to cases of plague and the measures taken to prevent other similar cases. Please ask the first question, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u196	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at the end of June this year there were cases of plague on small ruminants in the village of Voden, the municipality of Bolyarovo and the village of Kosti, the municipality of Tsarevo. Currently new cases have been identified in the villages of Kranovo, Strandzha and Sharkovo from the Municipality of Bolyarovo. According to media data, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has taken measures to prevent the spread of this disease, with the so-called humane way killing more than 3000 sheep and goats. I think it is unnecessary to mention that the owners of the affected animals are in shock that the livelihood of the local population in the deserted Strandzha Mountains is being destroyed, that there is a strong discontent with this way of action, that public opinion is beginning to be formed about the deliberate destruction of livestock farming in Bulgaria. In view of the above, please, Mr. Minister, give us an answer from which laboratory and when is the strain of the plague virus detected? Has an examination been carried out to see if these are antibodies? Where do dead animals be destroyed by an escargot or annihilation? And is this consistent with the Ministry of Environment and Water? How many more animals will be destroyed and in which settlements? Why does the state not take measures to isolate contagious and sick animals? Why hasn't the animal immunization been carried out in these areas? What measures does the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to avoid other similar cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Next, ask the second question. He is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev on the killing of hundreds of animals in the village of Kosti, Tsarevo Municipality of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Burgas. Here you are, dear Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u198	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, after the outbreak of small ruminants in the village of Kosti, the Municipality of Tsarevo in the region of Strandzha were killed almost 400 sheep and goats. In practice, the infected animals were only two. In accordance with art. 126, para. 1 of the Animal Health Act in the event of contagious disease, the Executive Director of the Food Safety Agency shall issue an order setting out measures to limit and eradicate the disease. My questions to you are as follows: since the regulation of the Republic of Bulgaria allows several options for response to the detection of infection, do you believe that the final measure taken for the slaughter of animals is adequate to the actual situation and how do you assess the activities of the Food Safety Agency, both the central department and the branch in Burgas? And secondly, farmers in Strandja experienced a mass killing in 2011 because of open foot-and-mouth disease. Then there was a bluetongue infection, and this month there was an euthanasia of animals because of the plague. How can the people of Strandja continue to deal with livestock, if any disease that occurs is directly treated with the slaughter of animals, provided that there are other options for the use of vaccines, medicines, quarantine for a certain period and others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u199	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. A general response should follow within six minutes. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u200	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, dear Mr. Baichev, dear Mr. Tishev! It's a really very unpleasant subject. Unfortunately, these are diseases that are one of the most severe and which require appropriate reactions. I'll read to you first, then I'll tell you other things. In June 2018, for the first time in Bulgaria and the European Union outbreaks of small ruminants plague were observed in the immediate vicinity of the Turkish border. This disease started from North Africa, started from Morocco, turned through Asia and, unfortunately, exactly the regions of Strandzha are close to the Turkish border where it reached this disease. In the village of Voden, Municipality of Bolyarovo on 20 June 2018 by the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute in Sofia and subsequently on 23 June it was confirmed for small animal plague by the European Union Reference Laboratory, namely In the village of Kosti we have confirmation of the disease on 28 June from the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute. The disease was identified by means of a polymerised chain reaction or PSR, which is an internationally recognised laboratory method for proving the small ruminants plague virus. A programme for the surveillance of cross-border animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease, pox, bluetongue and so on is implemented in the affected areas. The results of the implementation of the programme show that until the date of detection of the disease of small ruminants it was not available in the regions of Burgas and Yambol. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency immediately took the necessary measures to control and eradicate the disease under European Union legislation, namely Directive 92/19 and the National Contingess Plan to limit the spread of the disease by small ruminants, namely: humane killing and disposal of carcasses of all small ruminants in the affected areas. Next: determination of a 3-km protective and 10-km observed area around the affected settlements where they are sampled for laboratory analysis by all establishments of small ruminants and weekly clinical examinations shall be carried out to detect deviations from the healthy virus. Next: weekly clinical examinations at all small ruminants sites in municipalities along the border with Turkey. And the other: repeated disinfectations in affected settlements. The actions taken by BABBH and in particular by the Regional Food Safety Directorates in Burgas and Yambol are in line with the requirements of national and European legislation. Animals infected with small ruminants virus are not subject to treatment, isolation and quarantine. European Union policy does not provide for preventive vaccination for particularly dangerous animal viral diseases, as is the plague on small ruminants. The dead animals have been disposed of on site by burial in order to prevent the spread of the disease to other settlements, as would have been permitted during their transport. The disposal sites are designated by the Regional Epizootic Commission, which includes representatives of the district, municipal administrations, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Interior. A total of 1946 small ruminants were destroyed in the two first outbreaks in the village of Voden and in the village of Kosti. On the basis of the report submitted by the Food Agency to the European Commission on 4 July 2018, the initial decision on the control and eradication of the disease in Bulgaria was amended and the restrictions on trade in small ruminants and products thereof remained only for the municipalities of Bolyarovo and Elhovo in Yambol. Initially, it was for the whole districts of Tsarevo, Malko Tarnovo, Sredets, Primorsko and Sozopol in the district of Burgas. Products from small ruminants may only be made on the market outside those municipalities if they are heat treated under European Union legislation. The Food Agency considers that at this stage vaccination is not necessary. This would be necessary in case the disease covers larger areas and spreads extremely rapidly. Compliance by farmers with measures imposed by the Agency will not allow the spread of the disease. If vaccination is made, this is a living vaccine, there are many risks, and these are precisely the following. The vaccination will require an unsuccessful status of the area, and possibly the whole country, for at least three years after the vaccination is stopped. This will have a strong impact on the possibility of trading with other countries. I'm talking about all kinds of sheep products. In addition, this type of vaccination in order to limit the spread of the disease must be approved in advance by the other Member States of the European Union and authorised by the European Commission. I'm opening a clamp. On Sunday night, on Monday, the best specialists of the European Union will come from the DG Santé, so that they can go on the ground, get acquainted with the situation, with the actions that have been taken, because this is a risk disease that for the first time appears in the territory of the European Union. The measures imposed by the Bulgarian Food Agency regarding the disease are aimed at the healing of the affected areas, where there is increased supervision for early detection of sick animals and so on. Indeed, as soon as the first outbreaks were detected, sampling of all herds was taken by one special methodology. On Friday last week I first sent specialists from the Ministry, which I think we have, to check the work in the laboratory where the disease was found, the way it was done. Of course, it is also evident from the confirmations from the French laboratory. Until last Friday we had 700 samples that were good, in the sense that there was no positive result, but since the beginning of this week, the French laboratory has been confirmed precisely in these three new settlements. In this particular case, I will perhaps answer you for everything as compensation we have taken, I think that is why it was to say the good in the bad is that they are once again the same municipalities in which we currently have a ban. And right now, from the point of view of realization of animals, like those who have remained alive, their production has not expanded the scope. Yesterday and today I am aware of the protests, I am aware of the pain of everyone and everyone in the Ministry, of course, the pain of each of the sheep farmers, who eventually lives with these animals and they are part of their lifestyle, but these are the measures required to be taken to prevent the spread of the disease. I don't know if I read it here, but the disease can come from touching another diseased animal. We don't rule out an illegal introduction of animals here as one of the options within a source of the disease across the border, to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u201	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. First word for a line is Mr. Todor Baychev. Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u202	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, what you have heard has been very disturbing and I will not say that I am pleased, I have noticed that both used similar literature, namely Scientific Opinion on the assessment of the epizootic situation in the Republic of Bulgaria by the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre at the Ministry of Food. Everything you've put out, or at least most of it, is in the same scientific opinion. However, there are other data that I personally feel shocked about, namely, the chronology and conclusions made by Professor Georgiev, Dr Peeva, Dr. Polyhron and Dr. Vassileva. First I'll tell you about the chronology in the village of Bones. On 8 June 2018, the first clinical signs of this disease appeared. Later, however, what happens? Not one of the animals is referring to the goats, since the disease is more pronounced there and they are more susceptible, none of the animals has had diarrhea that is characteristic of this disease, no disease symptoms have been observed in any of the goats in the herd. Mortality was zero percent. Two weeks later, on 22 June 2018, in an autopsy by the veterinarian, he was impressed that there were no gastrointestinal changes. No characteristic changes have also been identified in the case of killing and disposal, i.e. virulent bleeding in the large intestine, i.e. there were no symptoms. It is the same for the village of Voden, where 1337 samples were taken and still writes that the serological results are expected. However, in conclusion, this scientific opinion states: "In the epizootic investigation of the outbreak in the village of Voden, the number of animals showed climate symptoms and pathological signs is too small and only in one of the three herds, meaning the other two herds have gone in vain. The impression is inexplicably severe restrictive and disproportionate for this disease restrictions and measures imposed by the European Union. Here I can now conclude that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has been imposed as a successful executioner of our livestock.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u203	Finish up, Mr. Baichev, so we can give an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u205	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Second line, Mr. Tishev, come in, you can develop Mr. Baichev's thesis, get her richer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u206	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. So, it's clear that the animals have already been slaughtered and we can't bring them back, but my further question is from here on in the future, can any preventative action be taken by the thesis that you just expressed within nine minutes? I am, how can I say, a little skeptical, because apparently nothing can be done in advance to save these animals in Strandja. But as the answer has been given by you, following such an outbreak as a result, actions will be the same. That is, very soon in Strandzha we will be left without livestock because there is no one to be caught if in 2 years they kill his flock, and he will receive compensation, he will do livestock farming again. Something can be done in advance! Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Regarding the disease itself, I told you that what needs to be done at the moment is to limit the disease in these seven municipalities. It is not even in the seven, others fall into one, when we get to Sozopol there are limited in terms of realization. A live vaccine is something that if it is required to be done in Bulgaria, it will limit the whole sector in general. As the development and agreement of all 27 countries, we should impose and restrictions to be only for the areas for which we are currently banning these seven municipalities, it is quite doubtful that they will agree. This is why it is really important for us to see the assessment that will now be of the specialists from DJ Santé and the others who will come. In general, it appears that the area is a risk-free operation seven years ago again has made a big problem. Unfortunately, with animal diseases at the moment, we don't have a problem, just in cattle farming, you know. In pig farming, knocking on wood, we do preventative action. Right now, we're going to stretch eposters along the land border. Yesterday I had a long meeting with Minister Radev from a point of view, at the checkpoints to prevent food from being imported, especially by Ukrainians, Moldovans and so on, which will also enter the affected areas, which are down in Yambolsko and in Burgas, to prevent the release of animals. You understand that in an economic sense anyone would try to carry out their animal, to realize it in some way. So this is a pretty risky situation. I don't want to get into an argument with you because I'm not a pet guy so I can get into detail. I sent it to our lab for a reason to check the way the sample was done and calculated. Yeah, what's been explained to me, too, is that epizootics and so on and so forth don't die immediately. But until an animal dies in Yambol, we can spread the disease to neighboring areas and so on. At this point, what we can do is take measures to limit the disease and compensate farmers adequately, for which I guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u208	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here comes a conversation about the compensation of these owners. The next two questions also come together and will be with a common answer. The first question is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev on compensation for the losses of farmers as a result of outbreaks of small ruminants. Here you are, dear Mr Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! As is already known, two outbreaks of small ruminants plague were observed in June the border regions of Yambol and Burgas. The measures taken to limit the disease by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency were mainly related to the destruction of herds in these uninhabited areas in order to limit the spread of the disease. However, during this week again in the municipality of Bolyarovo, respectively in the villages of Kranovo, Strandzha and Sharkovo, there was a plague on the sheep and goats and respectively the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency ordered the killing of about 2,000 animals again. As a result of these measures, livestock farmers in the affected areas generate, in addition to direct losses from the killing of animals, also circumstantially linked to the inability to produce their own animal production. A statement by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Dimitrov and experts from the Food Safety Agency commented on the need for compensation for the holdings for which a ban on the realization of production is introduced outside the municipality concerned. In this regard, Dear Minister, our specific questions to you are: firstly, what measures and when will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take in time to compensate for losses for the destroyed animals, as well as for unrealistic production? And, secondly, will the situation be recognised as a force majeure by the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u210	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. The next question is asked by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev, Ivan Valkov, Asya Peeva, Galya Vassileva and Diana Savateva concerning the outbreak of small ruminants plague in the village of Kosti, municipality of Tsarevo and the subsequent measures. Here you go, Mr. Valkov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u211	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament. Dear Minister, I will go directly to the specific questions we are asking with my colleagues, as my colleagues have developed sufficiently well the problems that have arisen with regard to plague outbreaks. The measures taken also concern dairy farmers throughout the Burgas region, which will affect productivity and distribution of production and will lead to missed benefits. Therefore, our main questions to you, Minister, are: what is the disease of small-lived livestock, and under what circumstances can it be risky for people? What was found in the said Strandja area? Has the source of the infection and the mechanism of infection been established and, above all, how will the owners of these animals be compensated? What are the measures to prevent the objectives and the duration of their implementation in order to stop the risk of the outbreak from occurring subsequently? Is vaccination possible only in border areas?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. A common response is followed within six minutes by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Here you are, Mr. Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Plague in small ruminants is a viral disease in sheep and goats, but it is not dangerous for humans. The disease is mainly transmitted through direct contact between animals and is spread to new territories mainly by moving infected animals. The incubation period varies from one to three weeks. In areas where the disease occurs for the first time, usually occurs in an acute form with a high temperature of about 40 degrees, with characteristic erosions of the oral mucosa, pneumonia, dehydration, weight loss, in a large percentage of animal death and so on. The source of the infection has not yet been clearly identified for the outbreaks detected in Bulgaria and the mechanism of infection, but it is likely that it is a failure to comply with the biosecurity measures in the establishments by the owners or illegal trade in animals. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is taking measures to control and eradicate the disease under European Union legislation, I indicated the number of the directive in the previous response. The situation with the health status of sheep and goats as a result of the plague on small ruminants in Southeastern Bulgaria was discussed at the beginning of the month at a meeting at the Ministry with experts, researchers, representatives of the branch organizations from the sheep and goat farming sector. The measures that the department is taking to eradicate the consequences of the disease, as well as the opportunities for financial support mostly to farmers, were examined. The destruction of infected and contact animals in the outbreaks of small ruminants plague in the village of Voden and the village of Kosti was ordered by the Executive Director of BABBH. In the village of Voden, Yambol District destroyed 1398 small ruminants owned by 21 farmers. In the village of Kosti, the district of Burgas was destroyed 538 small ruminants owned by seven farmers. In accordance with art. 144 of the Animal Treatment Act, the amount of compensation for animals shall be determined at market prices of the month preceding the occurrence of the disease. The benefit of tribal animals subject to the breeding programme shall be based on an assessment of the origin and breeding value made by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming. Four are the indicators related to sheep breeds. Yesterday we were presented with the first scores. For sheep under selective control, the assessment shall be individual for each animal. The average price for sheep, which is obtained for compensation, is 225 BGN, which I would say is a very reasonable price for compensation. For sheep who are not under selective control, the assessment is according to the regulation I mentioned. Yesterday, I looked at her, brought her back for audit, so that the injured livestock farmers could be protected a little bit better. Today I expect the assessment, but the average will not be less than BGN 150. Of course, all this depends on the weight of the animal. State aid de minimis. In relation to the emerging epizootic situation, the Managing Council of the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The affected farmers in the affected municipalities of Yambol region and Burgas region will be compensated by the de minimis minimum aid of BGN 25. for sheep-mothers and goats-mothers. The rates are formed based on an estimated, unrealized residue of raw milk at an average market price. I'm gonna open this up a little bit. We are talking about milk, which is at the end of lactation of every animal that will not be able to realize it until lactation is completed at the end of the month or at the beginning of August. The average milk that goes for milk after feeding the fruits to the sheep is about 70 liters. Currently the assessment was made for more than 20 liters, and at a price not from the minimum, as we discussed with Professor Bachvarova at a price of 119 BGN, our initial assessment was for 20 BGN. compensation of an animal, and our final decision is for BGN 25. This is one of the disputes with protesters livestock farmers today. They want to have 40 leva. compensation, which, first of all, we consider unrealistic. I don't want to make other definitions. For the affected farmers with a warrant for a one-week ban on the sale of raw milk in Yambol district, Yambol municipality, Stralja municipality and Tundzha municipality, because it was originally for one week before we corrected the Commission's decision the two areas were banned as a whole, namely for these two municipalities the owners will be compensated by 7 BGN. compensation for the number of animals. The farmers concerned will also benefit further from de minimis aid, including those with the destroyed animals, which is BGN 7 from yesterday's decision of the Governing Council. a small live animal and which will be separate from that provided for a reduction in the buying-in price. As soon as I get back, next week will begin paying the benefits for the animals that were euthanized in Bones and in Voden. Now that I'm back, I'm gonna take a look at the latest evaluations and the Food Agency will make these payments. Direct payments under force majeure. Farmers affected by the epizootic pest situation of small ruminants who are candidates under schemes for direct payments to animals and who have euthanized animals for support should notify the State Fund for Agriculture of the existence of force majeure within 15 days of the date of termination of the actual event, as the episiotomy hypothesis under Regulation (EC) No one number of the European Parliament of the Council of 2013 constitutes a case of force majeure and exceptional circumstances which can be recognised by the competent national authority, namely the Paying Agency. We have made an organisation that farmers know about this statement within this 14th day period. Candidates for support under the tied support scheme, which Mr. Valkov mentioned, and you, of course, for sheep and goats in mountain areas, and under the tied support scheme for sheep-mothers under selective control, may receive support under the scheme concerned, including for euthanised animals, such as the State Fund for Agriculture, will not take into account the quantities of milk or registered fruit in the calculation. As early as last week, when I commissioned to examine the legal framework, it is precisely the possibility of paying with the tied support under these schemes, which is very little as a value, but is based on this force majeure that is being done, we do not even need to ask for the difference from the quantity required under the repealed art. 23. Similarly, applicants under the transitional national aid scheme for sheep-mothers and goats bound by production will be eligible for support under it if they have fulfilled the requirements at the time of entry into force of the force majeure circumstance. In conclusion, to summarize. Compensation for euthanised animals will be paid off next week at prices that I believe are extremely reasonable. As soon as possible, we will organise the evaluation of the animals, which, unfortunately, must also be euthanized these days. With regard to de minimis of an animal, even if they are euthanized, they will receive compensation for those who are not euthanized, but are in the regions of the seven municipalities plus the district to an animal. We believe that by doing so for the benefits, this does not, of course, solve the pain that is in the hearts of each of the farmers, but we believe that they will be reasonably and adequately compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u214	Thank you, dear Minister. First line, Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u215	Madam President, honourable Members. Dear Minister, as a result of the public importance of the issue and the questions raised, including in the National Assembly, I must tell you that from the State Fund of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the reaction was relatively rapid from the point of view of making decisions on benefits, and from now on further steps to compensate for the lost benefits and losses which the Fund has not done before. However, given the fact that the situation is really difficult, we accept that this solution somewhere creates prerequisites to obtain funds that will enable not to restore the situation, but at least to compensate for those efforts made by farms. In the previous question, I told you that most likely sheep farming will continue to go down, and the reason is that the southeastern region of the country is the largest producer of sheep's milk with the largest number of animals. All these risks facing the Burgas and Yambol region create really exceptional difficulties. Firstly, disease to jump into these areas and each year we witness the risks to people who no longer want to deal with this industry for the simple reason that it leads to extremely large losses. It turns out that in Bones, the attack started from him, the plague started from him, and from now on, I ask: what does the Risk Assessment Centre do? Does he say what are the difficulties and what are possibly future diseases that may occur in these areas, given the border with Turkey? Because your colleague is also reading a postfactum report in which the scientific community is saying how the assessment was made, but it is already a fact. Risk assessment as a concept for me means to prevent the risks and, accordingly, veterinary services and specialists from having the opportunity to propose measures so that this does not happen in these areas, especially in Strandzha-Sakar, which are also depopulated. That's one question, just one more question. I do not understand much, but can processed production be implemented in other areas of the country? Are there any processing plants that can process the production accordingly? If everything is okay, from now on, we have no outbreaks, what is the quarantine period, which means how long will the ban on the 10-mile zone for which there are currently restrictions apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u216	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. The second line will be made by Mrs. Sawateva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u217	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Firstly, I would like to stress that the question that we asked you on behalf of all MPs from GERB in Burgas region highlights our concern about the situation not only in the village of Kosti, but also in the whole region which falls in Strandzha and is close to the border with Turkey. We understand perfectly that you do not only think about the owners of Bones, about the owners of the municipalities Tsarevo and those in Yambol, but also that you must take care of the safety and security of the sector throughout the country. We are aware, and we have first checked the need for the measures that have been imposed and that a directive of the European Union, of the European Commission, is being respected. In addition, I would like to thank you for your specifics, because our question is mainly not so much about the dilemma that animals should or should not be euthanized in such cases, but what benefits should farmers receive? Therefore, I thank you for your specifics, because today, from this tribune, farmers have heard specific figures, which are important to them, and these figures are for an individual animal. The other important thing is that a specific deadline has also been set and that the amounts will be paid next week - something to which we should pay attention and accept it as, as you said, good for the bad. The situation that was created in Bones and other places in Strandja, where there are farms, makes us think of something else. Therefore, I will ask you the question that is key to me: should the Ministry, given what has happened so far, both this year and 2011, when outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease occur, develop a strategy for the development of livestock farming in these risk areas? This is the first thing I ask you to answer. The second thing I noticed and found out from local conversations is that there is no procedure to bear costs for accompanying activities. Once the animals have been killed, they must be transported, buried, the places concerned must be enclosed. There are no expenses for this in the Ministry, they are borne by the municipalities. Is there supposed to be a procedure for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Next up is Minister Rumen Porozhanov's doppelganger. Here you go. It will be in response to the two lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u219	Thank you. We are certainly all concerned about the situation. Analysis has to be done a lot. You understand that an analysis, when it is said: "There is no strategy for sheep farming, and it is said by associations. " There is no strategy for one thing or for another. In this particular case, I had a meeting with representatives of the sector "Fruits and vegetables" who said: "Mister Minister, many cherry plants have been made in Plovdiv, where they do not belong. "Well, the Ministry can say to someone: "No, it does not do its own cherry plantation?" "Everyone has to do their own soil analysis, analysis of the market, then analysis of what they want to invest in, and be aware of what they will do." Of course, livestock has always been a little more peculiar. In the particular case of Strandja-Sakar, it must be analysed because it is a risk from a biosecurity point of view that should be followed by any private veterinarian. State veterinarians cannot stand in each flock continuously, they are single people, probably two or three in one area and should cover not only sheep farming, but all others, including the food industry in the processing of products. The issue of sheep farming is also important, Professor Bachvarova, because since March we have been having constant talks at the Ministry. The problem is that in our dairy, in our milk processing enterprises, sheep products are stalling, including last year. The realization of sheep's products is becoming increasingly difficult. This is one of the reasons for the fall in prices. We have also had conversations with Madzharov and with other big ones who say: "Yes, we are buying it to maintain sheep farming right now, but we are gaining losses from this whole process. " I will personally place an analysis of the situation in question, from Sakar's point of view, from the point of view of the risks to be posed in the context of this industry, but we should not and should not say: The safety in question is often underestimated. Let's face it: this is information we get from sheep farmers themselves. The so-called "jambazlak".. illegal introduction of an animal, because on the other side is at a slightly lower price, exists. Yesterday we spoke with Minister Radev and he assured me that the fence had no holes, including in this part of the area of the affected municipalities. There's a lot of themes. I can assure you, of course, that I also rely on Parliament's support with the Agricultural Commission, that both in this case and in all other cases we strive to make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Those were the questions and the questions to you. Thank you for your answers. We continue with questions to Mr. Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer first a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva about the state of Republican Road III-8081 from the town of Madzharovo village of Borislavtsi and the village of Malki Voden until the branch for Lubimets. Here you are, Mr. Dinkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! Our question is about the state of Republican road III-8081 from Madzharovo village of Borislavtsi village of Malni Voden to the fork of the road Lyubimets, Ivaylovgrad. The third-class road III-8081 is the most direct link between the residents of Madzharovo municipality and the highway of Maritsa. It is also the only link to the cities of Ivaylovgrad, Svilengrad and Lubimets. However, its condition does not correspond to its importance as a vital transport link. The asphalt flooring is outdated and in places it is highly compromised. For years, the only repair work done along this road has been the removal of damage to three small bridge facilities. In addition to the difficulty in serving the population, which arises for health, social and other services, there is also limited access for tourists relaxing at the dam of Ivaylovgrad and the Arda River. Mr. Minister, this is probably not the most important issue and this time is not the most important one for the country, but speaking of the development of mountain and semi-mountain areas and the demographic crisis, this is an indicative example of the state's attitude towards these areas. Here I think there should be a much stronger state cohesion policy. Our question to you is: when will the necessary and repair be carried out on route III-8081? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u222	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dinkov, Mrs. Jeleva! There's no minor road, no minor problem. All problems are important enough because in every Bulgarian region, in each municipality there are Bulgarian citizens who have their needs. The State must be responsible for the quality of these problems and for the provision of the competent and dependent services. Of course, in the absence of sufficient financial resources, in the case of a financial deficit, it still needs to prioritize. Perhaps that is what you have made up your mind about why it is not on the top list of priorities for South Bulgaria, for example. If we start with macronivo, we are talking about prioritization, firstly, Northern Bulgaria in this mandate... both as road infrastructure and as state investments. From there we talk about first and second grade roads also in poor condition, then we go down to third class roads. Particularly for the current road III-8081 Dolni Vecnik (Vecec) branch for the village of Madzharovo (Borislavtsi), the section is 25,840 km long and is part of the Republican road network on the territory of Haskovo district. In order to ensure the passage of the road and to address immediate problems for road safety, care is taken within the available financial resources. With the Programme ongoing repair and maintenance, although insufficient, we maintain preventive roads with palatial measures.. draining ditches, repairing activities on the pavement, such as temporary patches. The activities carried out are worth almost 100 thousand. lv. with value added tax. During the current year, with sufficient resources, local repairs of compromised areas of the pavement will be carried out before the start of the winter season. However, a permanent improvement in the functional state of the road can be achieved with a major repair and reconstruction of the route for which, according to a preliminary expert assessment, funds of around 8 million are needed. lv. with VAT, which at this stage the Road Infrastructure Agency does not have. Opportunities will be sought to ensure the necessary funding, including by means of the future electronic charging system, the use of roads and road infrastructure as a whole. We talk about the toll system every time. Perhaps there will be time in the second part of my exhibition to say what is still done for Haskovo region and what is foreseen in 2018. For the current time, with all the responsibility of what I have said, and I regret to say that financial resources in 2018 are not provided, but from 2019 we will look for financial sources, even along the line of the future toll system. This year,.. palatial repairs to ensure at least the safe passage of travelers. In the autumn months these activities will be carried out.. mending, marking to meet the winter season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Jeleva will take the opportunity to reply. You have the floor, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, clearly from the parliamentary control and the questions asked to you, yes, the main problem is second-class and third-class Republican roads in Bulgaria, for which it is necessary, as you said, a great financial resource. It is good that you mentioned that there are no unimportant or very important roads. Statistics show that 67% of the second-class and third-class road network in Haskovo region is in poor and in very bad condition. This time it's a characteristic example of this. As the colleague said just now, this area is one of the most deserted and it is very important for the state to support such areas and at least to deal with the demographic problem, with the demographic crisis. There, in this area, the only or one of the few that the few remaining people can deal with, the few remaining population, is the small family business related to natural and historical landmarks, with rest, recreation and fishing for tourists along the Arda River and the Ivaylovgrad Dam. That is why we are signaling about this problem, because if we want such a business there and this possibility for the population for tourism to develop, we need to make this segment. You said just now that she's too young and I think she can at least be rehabilitated. I'm saying it's necessary because the Prime Minister had mentioned that there would be a police officer or a clerk to every hole. I've been to this area and I'm telling you there's no holes, there's no road. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sure you won't be visiting him, but I have photos, and if they're of interest to you, I'll show you to see that this isn't even fit for an off-road route. Please, I know how difficult the Ministry has been to say this several times, and about the so-called toll system, and we hope that you will still take the necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come on in. You have an opportunity for a coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, yes, the fact is that everything is true, but the fact is that not only this time, over 9,000. km of Republican roads are in this state not from this state, from last year and from the previous year, but from 30 years. And when we talk about these facts and about the policy in the sector, I think you are aware of what we are doing right now. Therefore, on this topic related to the tol system, and even future revenues in the Road Structure Agency, which are not for us, for you, they are for the Bulgarian society and every next government will have three times the resources for these problems. From next year, by introducing the tol-system, not only are we waiting for it, it is coming, very well done fellow performers and colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency will be rehabilitated exactly these sections. It's not a small road. I didn't say it was small. 25 kilometers and 8 million. lv. It's a pretty serious amount of money for me, talking about a full rehabilitation of this stretch. Don't be sure he's not coming. I was in Haskovo County two weeks ago. We have launched the repair activities of two third-class roads - one with more than 50 km of linear length, the alternative highway - Maritsa. This is the third-class road Simeonovgrad lv. Apart from that, we started with the activities on another third-class road from Ivaylovgrad to Krumovgrad, again a third-class road, with funds again from the European Union, a joint program of the Interreg Bulgaria, a cross-regional road, i.e. connecting two areas, once again a road, unrehabilitated 40 years. In addition, realizing the tragic and severe condition in a large part of the third-class roads not only in Haskovo region, but in Haskovo we started with repairs last year, we will finish them next year in the autumn season. Apart from that, we are dealing with some other problems in the area of the current renovation in Haskovo region. You know, we rehabilitated the first-class Republican road Dimitrovgrad Haskovo will start building a circular intersection of the branch for the Yazaki factory. And a number of others, not to list them all. I have written my colleagues two pages with listed road sections, which in 2017. [[the President signals that time has run out]] repair activities in Haskovo area will be completed, but all the other activities that we talk about every time from this high tribune will indeed bet on the toll and after the resource generated by heavy goods revenue, mainly transiting vehicles, will be realised precisely, not only in the construction of highways. You in Haskovo region at least in this respect in southern Bulgaria are benefiting. The people of Northern Bulgaria are waiting and will continue for another year two or three sections... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ... "Hemus " and the other three highways, which we have taken as a commitment, but we will also rehabilitate these roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am disturbing you because the list of questions to you is very long and the MPs are waiting. We have to answer as much as we can. The next question is from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavcho Velkov and Manol Genov regarding the assessment and implementation of the transport infrastructure in the country against plans to create a military Schengen zone. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Look, our group again has a serious presence in the Chamber because of the criticism that we are absent from parliamentary control. You may commend them, Mr. Chairman. [[Radio.]] Mr. Minister, in recent media editions of allied states, serious attention has been paid to the lack of the possibility of NATO military equipment passing unimpeded through the crossing points and on the available road network across the countries of the European Union, including in Eastern Europe and Bulgaria. Obviously, obstacles other than administrative are also technically related to road infrastructure which does not meet the requirements and does not comply with NATO standards. It is necessary to conclude that we are unable to fulfil our allied commitments. Our question to you is: is there an assessment of the state of the road infrastructure in the country and what measures is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works planning to bring it into a state with NATO requirements and required standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u230	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, a little side topic from our resource, but still the road infrastructure is entirely within our competence, so I will try to answer you competently. First of all, I would like to point out that the notion of a war zone is not formally adopted, the correct term is a relief of military mobility and also that military mobility has a complex character... by land, air and water. In September 2017, the European Defence Agency established a special working group with the task of identifying obstacles of legal, administrative and technical nature which make it difficult for military forces to move rapidly into the Union, to systematise existing initiatives related to military mobility, to identify which bodies and bodies concerned with the facilitation of procedures, what their responsibilities and tasks will be to improve military mobility and what time horizon specific progress can be made. The Working Group has drawn up a roadmap subsequently developed as an Action Plan setting out a framework for ongoing and future programmes, projects, initiatives and activities. The Action Plan identifies the following key measures at European Union level. By the end of this 2018, the European Commission, together with the Member States of the European Union and the European Defence Agency, shall determine the discrepancies between the technical requirements currently in force with regard to the TEN-T network and those relating to the routes for carrying out the movement of troops and military forces, as well as the discrepancies with regard to geographical scope. By the end of 2019, the services of the European Commission shall determine the sections of the TEN-T network suitable for the movement of military units and equipment, including the necessary modernisation of existing infrastructure. By the end of 2019, the Commission will determine together with the relevant countries the appropriateness of linking civil and military databases and the possible scope of such action. By 2020, the Commission should assess the need to adapt the Regulation of the European Union and of the Council on Union guidelines for the development of the TEN-T network with a view to incorporating the updated technical requirements for military mobility. It follows from this that the analysis and evaluation of existing road infrastructure and the definition of measures to bring it into line with the requirements for the facilitation of military mobility are yet to come. The formation of an Interdepartmental Working Group initiated by the Ministry of Defence, which will include experts from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Customs and all other competent institutions on the topic. The working group will analyse all available EU and NATO documents to facilitate military mobility of a legal, diplomatic, administrative, customs, technical and other nature, as well as to determine the specific commitments of each institution in the implementation of the Action Plan. In order to ensure NATO's main objectives, namely to improve the capacity of the Alliance for Collective Defence and to implement the National Plan for Supporting by the Republic of Bulgaria as host country of NATO forces, approved by Decision No 45 of 19 January 2017, the API is tasked with ensuring the maintenance of 2959 km of Republican roads, from which: highways [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence. The Republican roads, subject to the Plan, are located mainly on the TEN-T network in the territory of the country, are in good technical and operational condition, their elements meet the requirements for the relevant road class, are suitable for moving the relevant parts and equipment and provide transport services to the designated areas for the deployment, preparation and integration of NATO forces in the territory of the country and, if necessary, to neighbouring countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, what we have heard from you at first glance satisfies the requirements of the regulations of the Directive and those deadlines that are laid down 2020 for assessing the state of the road infrastructure with a view to meeting NATO standards for military mobility. I am afraid that the question so asked by my colleague Manol Genov, although it has been pre-written, is not sufficiently well understood. I would like to tell you that our road infrastructure under the European Directive No 114 on European critical infrastructures is part of it. It was built in the old days without the current situation, the current realities, in the conditions when Bulgaria was a member of another collective security system. The question here is this, Dear Minister: do the facilities of our road infrastructure at present meet the requirements for military mobility and movement of NATO military forces, will I serve with a slightly more military language, in the Balkan strategic direction? For example, the direction of Bulgaria "St. Turkey" "The Middle East" and the direction of "Bulgaria" "Greece" and hence the sea. I mean, are those bridges that you know well, not as well on our highways as on the secondary roads, currently able to take over the respective NATO forces? For example, one trailer, which weighs about 60 pounds, and one heavy tank, another 40 tons on it - 110 tons... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, I'll be done. ...load capacity, there's such a concept, can they take on something like this right now? I personally believe that this is not possible and we cannot meet these requirements. That's why we wanted that assessment. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman. In many of our ways, especially secondary, which we military people call both rock and parallel, not highways, this cannot happen. If you were at the parade on May 6, you would see that heavy machinery was moving back to their garrisons just like that and even on the highways had some difficulties. Imagine 1,000, 200, 300 units of military equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u234	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u235	Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u236	We're taking up time for other questions. That's why I'm impatient, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Velkov, a fact is everything you said. It's like he's worried about us, too. I mentioned that critical parts of the Republican road network that are affected by the subject on this issue are part of the TEN-T network. We're talking almost 3,000. km. To be accurate, I'm almost 3,000 miles away. km. The fact is that some of them are even currently being repaired. And whenever we repair even bridge facilities on motorways, not only on second-class, first-class, third-class roads, we have a problem with infrastructure facilities such as bridge facilities, like tunnels, we try to provide an alternative. But that is why we have re-installed them, because most of them, as well as most of the roads in the answer to the previous question, have not been repaired for 30 years. This critical infrastructure is not only in cases of collective defence of the NATO-World themes that we are dealing with, but even from the point of view of the cars that pass through them on a daily basis, it is indeed in serious condition. The joyous fact is that exactly those 3,000. km with small exceptions, I will do a more detailed analysis of the problem points, as is the 2017 analysis, for which I mentioned, we still have 2018-a, 2019-a, 2020-a transition period based on all the measures that we are implementing under the plan, together with our colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, priority is to look at these sites, this infrastructure as a priority for reconstruction, for reconstruction. Of course, if necessary, we provide alternative routes along them. Yes, the reasons in the question are extremely serious, and the work we do in the direction of the 3,000. km is proof of the fact that in many of the special facilities, the bridges and highways and first class roads, we have a problem. This problem is not from today or yesterday. Therefore, planning, on a regular basis, on the basis of the budget's capabilities, we are renovating precisely these facilities, because I mentioned not only in the context of this issue, we have some problems of a constructive nature on bridge facilities, even for daily heavy goods vehicles from civil and, respectively, commercial turnover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova about the design and construction of the Dam of Neykovtsi in the municipality of Tryavna. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Nankov! The design and construction of Neykovtsi Dam in Tryavna Municipality is extremely important for the region of Tryavna and Dryanovo, as it will guarantee quality and constant water supply. To date, the settlements in the two municipalities are powered by surface sources with erratic flow rates and the residents of these two municipalities suffer during prolonged drought. The history of the construction of the dam and the treatment plant to it is quite long. The beginning was set 40 years ago, in 1978. It was interrupted several times. In 2001, funding was suspended due to lack of funds. In 2010, after a signed Loan Agreement with the World Bank for Municipal Infrastructure Development, it is said that the Dam "Neykovtsi" is included and will be financed. However, in 2014 the construction of the Dam.. Neykovtsi and the treatment plant is also removed from this Agreement. To date, we have prepared only a plotted plan of the pipeline route and adopted an idea project. We still don't know if a technical construction project has been drawn up. The construction of the dam and the treatment plant affects about 30 thousand. residents of the two municipalities. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is the design of the Dam "Neykovtsi" and the municipality of Tryavna, and is the financing provided for its construction?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u240	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Sidorova! A plot, not a plot! You have rightly mentioned 2010 as a key year, because several times before that date, before that year, funding was supposedly provided, then stopped and no action. In 2010 with loan funds from the World Bank and co-financing from the national budget began the implementation of the project. Three dams have been included, with all the construction procedures before, including the plotting plan, and rehabilitation of the dam of Studena dam along with the construction of a drinking water treatment plant. Neykovtsi Reservoir is specifically designed to provide drinking-bit water for the municipalities of Tryavna and Dryanovo. The construction of the dam and the treatment plant to it began in 1978 of the last century. We mentioned the agreement with the World Bank several times, and it was finally suspended in 2001, and the key 2010 agreement signed with the World Bank and the provision of financial resources at the time for design and all project activities under the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project. The long period of time and the revised regulatory framework over the years have imposed an audit of the implementation and of the construction carried out at the time and, of course, newly designed, and therefore, in the period until 2013, tender procedures under the World Bank rules were carried out to award the necessary project activities and the completion of the waterworks. In the beginning of 2014 a contract for consulting activity with subject: site survey, technical projects and tender documents for the dam of Neykovtsi was concluded and within the project included the dam, the facilities to it, the water treatment plant for the town of Tryavna and external water pipelines to the dam of Tryavna. The project activities are implemented by the Swiss design company Stuckey. In 2014, a full audit of the implementation in the past was carried out as construction, such as all other production activities including research and analysis of the constructions of the dam, conducting current hydrological, geological and hydrogeological studies in the dam area, the treatment plant and the quarry for the extraction of inert material. On the basis of them, an ideal project was drawn up for all sub-units. At the end of 2014, the project was adopted by the Technical Expert Council in MRRB. In 2015, we started preparing a detailed development plan, in this case we were talking about the plotting plan, the construction scheme of the route and the external water pipelines to the dam of Tryavna Municipality, which was adopted at a meeting of the Municipal Expert Council for Construction on the territory, Tryavna Municipality, in March 2018. A technical project for the site was prepared specifically to the question which was submitted to MRRB in May this year and was adopted by the Technical Expert Council at the beginning of July. 10 days ago was prepared. I think it was brought in by the community colleagues for a month. About a month and a half ago, we accepted him to an Expert Council at the Ministry. Construction of Neykovtsi Dam, water treatment plant and adjoining infrastructure fell due to a three-year delay in the Loan Agreement to the World Bank Municipal Infrastructure Development Project due to lack of funds and delays in all procedures. I mentioned, May was submitted to the Ministry the proposal of the approved technical project by the municipal council. In providing future funding, which has already been re-subsidized with colleagues from the World Bank to continue funding in the next period for the construction of new dams, we are at least done with all procedures, the contracting entity, i.e. the MRDP, will have the necessary technical documentation and permission to build and prepare tender documents for the conduct of a contract for the selection of a builder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u243	Dear Minister, one clarification! The issue was submitted at the beginning of May, even before the decision of the Municipal Council was taken. In all likelihood, there is something good about your delay in reply.. During these two months things have happened that you were able to tell me today, because in the beginning, most of your answer was a historical reference which I also laid out shortly before you from this tribune. Your answer largely coincided with the answer given a year ago. The positive thing here is that funding will be sought again by the World Bank. In 2014, only one clarification of the dam was dropped not because of a delayed procedure, but because of a shortage of funds. I hope that in the next period, when we have a Loan Agreement with the World Bank, Neykovtsi Dam, which is, I repeat once again, of great importance for both Tryavna and Dryanovo, there will be funds for it and the dam and the treatment plant will be really implemented. We expect the good news from you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, this is how we drive it on reminders and on specifics. I will quote you: 2014 dropped out for funding. I have mentioned the reasons, but let's note what year has fallen for funding dam "Neykovtsi"! Let's remember in mid-2014 who ran the MRDPB! Without moving, of course, the ball back. It is good that under the Project I will answer very seriously, two other dams have been implemented. For the first time in 30 years, two dams for drinking and domestic supply are ready and two dams for drinking and domestic supply are under construction. The dam is situated at the dam of Studena dam, which provides more than 100 thousand dams. people from Pernik region are currently rehabilitating, the water treatment plant is being built. Yes, it is a fact that we have to provide funding for the Neykovtsi. Not only for "Neykovtsi" we need to provide funding for several more key dams in the country, as we are still talking about global climate problems, drought problems. More and more not only from the country, we are already talking in a global context about the problem of waterlessness, with the lack of drinking water, which is, by the way, a basic human law. This is a UN Convention, it could hardly be solved without a new construction of drinking water dams. Our goal, our priority, not just these two and the rehabilitation of the Cold One, but a few more, not to list them all. However, we are talking about the dam "Kustendil" other than "Neykovtsi", "Black eight" "three more, four dams we have that should be realized in the next 7 years on the territory of the country as really the problem of drinking supply will become more serious and more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are approaching a question from the National Representative Ivan Mihovski on the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multiprofile and residential buildings in the town of Lovech. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings aims to upgrade them by implementing energy efficiency measures. It is a new investment policy for energy efficiency of residential buildings in Bulgaria. It is a long-term energy savings measure and for complete technical solutions, for renovation of residential buildings in Bulgaria on a national scale, through which funding opportunities reach private owners in residential buildings. This is the only program in Bulgaria that offers a complex solution for the renovation of the numerous residential building fund throughout the country. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the total number of contracts concluded under the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings in Lovech District, how many of them are implemented and how many are currently being implemented? What is the total amount of money invested in Lovech area under this programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u248	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihowski! Lovech District is not one of the most active in the Programme, which has always been an amazement. The districts of Northwestern Bulgaria, where the needs are generally the greatest, know what are the conditions and relevant indicators in the Northwestern Planning Region, one of the most inactive, unfortunately. We have 36 contracts between owners' associations and municipalities in Lovech district. [[Heckling]] Thank you, Mr. Genov. There are 33 contracts for targeted funding between the Bulgarian Development Bank, municipalities and regional administration. The expected total amount of investments under the Lovech Region programme is around 26 million. lv. As of 30 June 2018, the total amount of contracts concluded for the implementation of the activities under the Energy Efficiency Programme amounted to 21 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, and of them have already been paid out by the Bulgarian Development Bank to the companies performers of the various activities funds of 12 million. $700,000. lv. The buildings, which are fully completed and put into operation, are 15 totals of almost 10 million. Six hundred thousand. BGN, and the same are distributed through the cities as follows: the first were Lukovit 2 buildings from the three with grant contracts; Teteven 10 buildings, almost all in the two municipalities eligible under the Programme; in Troyan 3 buildings currently completed in Lovech none. From the above 15 buildings are all finally paid with signed protocols under art. 12, i.e. a payment resource to performers. The remaining 18 buildings are at a different stage of implementation, with 12 buildings in the process of construction and construction, with an estimated total investment of nearly 12 million. lv. In the town of Lovech 5 buildings are located in different stages. For block 214, we have a selected contractor for the activity "Engineering," block "Kubdinov kat" is in a procedure for selecting a contractor for carrying out technical investigation and investigation for energy efficiency, for block 107, inch. "In" and "Bl." 116, vh. A procedure for selecting a contractor for carrying out a technical audit and an energy efficiency survey has been opened, an Ambaritsa block is about to open a procedure for selecting a contractor for carrying out a technical audit and an energy efficiency survey. 10 other halls are currently under way in Lovech. The last district town in which real activities under the Sanitation Program have been launched, and work is being done. In Troyan we have a building for which a permit is to be issued for construction and the launch of installation and repair activities. What else can I tell you in answer to the question? We have some delays, as you have seen in some of the municipalities, but in some of them the activities started very quickly. In Lukovit from three eligible buildings three: two realized and one which is in the process of realization. Teteven: out of 12 eligible buildings 10 realized. The percentage of eligible and eligible buildings is extremely high. In Troyan and Lovech, we have some delays. It's a good thing the last few months have been catching up and building work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u250	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line. You have the floor, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! You yourselves understand that the reason I ask this question to you are in fact the questions that are addressed to me to the admissions with citizens. Their concern or rather a misunderstanding is why things happen fast enough in places, and others get very slow and their realization is extremely slow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u252	Thank you. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihowski! Yeah, you're right. As we have also been criticised for this part, under this segment, what mechanism for implementing the programme have we created 2015, namely the decentralised model, i.e. the state provides the resource, the rules, the control that we have improved, and in the competence of the municipal administration is the process for implementing the municipalities, the process for carrying out the specific activities, in the case of financial resources provided, of course. We have another subjective factor, yet we are talking about private property in residential buildings, it is the assessment of the owners willing or unwilling to participate in the program. If we start from there a desire expressed, in all other application procedures approved, of course, subsequently and executed, passing through tender procedures, now all these units and the time schedule depends on the accuracy, speed, competence of the municipal administration. Here I could hardly be hired for an answer, why in some faster, others slower, but the fact is that many municipalities, not only in Lovech region, in the country, launched more 2016 with real activities, others only 2018 really implemented projects. It's hard to explain to people. However, you, in your reception days, may also be those representatives of the local authorities who objectively move and implement this process, explain to people what the real and objective prerequisites for this delay are. The fact is that resources for 36 buildings in Lovech region are provided. I mentioned it as well as what stage they were at. That's what it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-13.u254	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's now 14.02 minutes. There are more questions for Minister Nankov, which is why we will obviously see each other in another meeting, another day when we continue with parliamentary control. Thank you to the Minister. I thank my fellow Members who have had patience until the end of the meeting. The next Parliament meeting is on 18 July 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
